ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24458	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I want to take a break on behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club to talk about two laws that I have prepared and forwarded to MOST and HDZ for consideration. It is about laws that would finally resolve the manipulation of interest rates and which would solve the illegal business of cooperatives that did not have a license to work in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24459	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24460	Dear President, I'm asking for a 10-minute break so she can talk about the Međimurje County mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24461	Thank you. Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24462	I am looking for a break in front of the MOST club about the situation in the Croatian Olympic Committee and sports in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24463	Thank you. I'm approving a 10-minute break. Continuing is 15 to 10. Thank you. It's 09.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I'd like to beg! We're continuing the session. I'd like to ask the esteemed MPs and the MPs. Representative Goran Aleksic in front of the Live Wall and Power Club first asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24465	I would like to thank the esteemed president, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before this break we had before our little break I suggested and prepared two laws. I've sent them to MOST and HDZ for consideration. It is about laws we should finally stop first manipulation of interest rates conducted by Croatian banks in 200 thousand loans, at least. And secondly, another law would help debtors who have agreed loans with allegedly illegal cooperatives that did not have a license to work in the Republic of Croatia, we would help them get justice easier. I wrote it in two laws, although both laws are about amendments and additions to the Consumer Credit Act, because it is a different issue. If MOST and HDZ accept my proposals, it can be agreed to in one law. So, what's the first law? As we all know, banks have negotiated illegal variable interest rates until 1 January 2013, because there are no financial laws which would have been specified exactly how they have to define interest rates, what the parameters must look like. They pulled out that since there were no such provisions in the financial laws, and above all it was the Consumer Protection Act, the Consumer Credit Act, the Credit Institutions Act, that was not prescribed. However, it was prescribed by the Law on Mandatory Relations, Article 270, that the contractual act must be either specific or specific. In the case of a fixed interest rate, the data must be agreed on the basis of which the interest rate is changed. On the basis of amendments to the Consumer Credit Act in the beginning of 2014 in all these loans, in all those contracts where no interest margins have been agreed on, and the margins have determined voluntarily, out of contract and to this day apply, and illegally certain interest margins and the state is calmly looking at it, the CNB is looking at it calmly, the inspections are looking at it calmly. The DORH has received an all-inclusive anti-bank application because of what they are doing and has not yet initiated procedures through which 9 to 25 billion kuna can be incomed from the state budget. The Act amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, the draft law which I have prepared to address this problem in such a way that no fixed interest margin is agreed in any loan in which the interest margin must be determined on the basis of the initial terms of credit. So, we need to go back historically at the moment of each loan being negotiated, and at the moment of the loan's negotiation, we need to determine both the fixed interest margin and the variable parameter. I've been working on it for years, and it still hasn't occurred to anyone that that's how it should be done. And that's why banks manipulate interest rates, and that's how they actually steal people's money. I have to say that they steal people's money, because on the basis of an illegal contractual provision, in fact, on the basis of a contractual provision that doesn't exist at all, but on the basis of a provision that they will, outside of the contract, determine banks, manipulate interest rates and take far more interest than they should on the basis of the initial terms of credit. I hope that MOST and HDZ will accept my proposal and will, together with me, refer it to the procedure and thus finally stop the illegal manipulation of interest rates by Croatian banks. The second law, which proposes in fact the retroactive application of Article 4b. The Consumer Credit Act would allow all debtors who did not have a business license in the Republic of Croatia to contract loans. These debtors would be able to handle their court proceedings more easily. So the law is not enforceable in relation to banks, but it would help debtors to finally solve their judicial problems in a faster way than they do now. I must point out that, on the basis of the judgment of the High Court of Commerce of 13 June 2014, in the collective case of Franak, all interest rates had to be returned to the initial amounts, but they did not do so because that verdict was enforceable. She said banks shouldn't behave like that anymore. And I finally have to say that there are already examples where interest rates are defined in the way I propose, there are examples in our neighborhood, Hungary did this at the end of 2014. She first determined that overpaid interest must be returned to all debtors. Afterwards, she determined that interest rates must be defined as a fixed margin of one plus bibor, and the bib is actually an interest rate for forint in interbank business. So after the mentions we had on Sunday were recognised by all the states, we must recognize ourselves and finally solve these problems that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24466	Thank you, Agent Alexic. A representative of Bernarda Topolko from the HNS club also called for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24467	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, January 9th marked the day of the release of Međimurje from Hungary. In 2005, this High House made a decision to mention the day. I must sincerely express my regret that when the markings were not answered by the representatives of this High House, they were invited. And that's why I want to say a few words. The Međimurje County until January 9th 1919 was owned by Hungary. It is the county in the north, the smallest county, in the north of Croatia and only the Mura River divides it from Hungary. The county, which has 113 thousand inhabitants, which has a Roma national minority and in the majority represented in Croatia, has made a major contribution to the struggle in the Homeland War. Our fighters were in the territory of all Croatia. On January 9, 1919, 10,000 Međimurans gathered in the Franciscan square in Čakovac to decide on the secession of Međimurje from Hungary. The Međimurians did the thing, they did it during World War II when there was a re-engagement attempt on Međimurje Hungary. The Međimurians are a valuable people, I think we should mention them in this House, a team more that we've heard it was mentioned. This year it's been marked 98 years. I hope that on the 100th anniversary there will be representatives of this House. I want to wish all Međimurje and Međimurje a happy Day of Liberation from the Hungarian authorities because our people say it is never too late for good wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24468	I thank the MPs Bernardi Topolko. I also have to agree that the situation during the history of Međimurje was exactly like that that they were trying to scratch our territory of different neighbours and that the Međimurje Croats were not the ones who could choose. It is indeed a great day for them, and it should also be emphasized and celebrated I fully agree. Thanks for the break. Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24469	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As a roof institution, the Croatian Olympic Committee does not respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, does not provide funding to national alliances that have major successes in international sport where they present Croatia according to criteria, without any criteria simply endanger certain sports organisations that are on the verge, which fight and with their personal means achieve world results. The state provides funds to the HoO institution that was founded sports television, sports television that led to the possibility of blocking the HOO account by borrowing 67 million kuna, and now that debt has risen to 77 million kuna debt. HOO i.e. Croatian sport has now become a guarantee, from the guarantee now to the debtor. He's threatening to block the Croatian sport. They haven't delivered a report to this High House for 2014. How is it possible for a HOO whose budget is financed more than 90% from the state budget to have salaries and coefficients higher than state officials, rather than prime minister, than parliamentary representatives? How the debtor HOO can even run for state resources, while small clubs in small rural areas cannot behave in this way, where legality is sought, where our children in these areas, rural areas in undeveloped areas, have no ability to deal with funds. They're chickening, destroying Croatian sport. Why did the current authorities allow Croatian sport to be a toy HOO that should protect Croatian sport? It is good that this government for the Central Sport Office has established and we expect results, we expect to save Croatian sport from the HoO, take steps and respect the Sport Act. There are plenty of clientelism and nepotism in Croatian sport at the expense of Croatian athletes who are in the wrong and sweat of the Croatian color dam. Because of our children, because of the development of sports, in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia in numerous environments today children do not have the opportunity to practice sports. I repeat, they don't have sports halls, they don't have sports playgrounds, and they're talented at sports, and we also know what sports mean in children's development and we know what sports mean in amateurism. I call on the Central Sport Office, which runs our recognised and famous legend Janica Kostelic, who will have the support of the MOST to respect the Sport Act, both the HoO and the Croatian Football Federation, and not to allow certain groups of this money to publicly use themselves for private purposes while Croatian sport is brought to the bottom in financial opportunities. We have to save Croatian sport. It's just, I come from the south end when I look at only the attitude towards sports clubs from the south, the sadder the saddest. But Heiduk lives forever and will survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24470	I thank Representative Buljo. I would ask esteemed MPs and MPs to be patient with their comments. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24471	Mr. President inspired by the presentation of colleagues Bulja with a particularly last sentence I ask you to fulfill his wish and report on the business of the Croatian Olympic Committee from the 34th item of the agenda put away before you could once again listen to this hearty exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u24472	Thanks for the suggestion. Dear colleagues of the MPs and MPs continue with the agenda point: 2. Report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held during 2016. The President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 11. Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. You've received the material into the boxes. I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I ask him to submit an opening statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26338	... Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Here is the third day in a row in the Croatian Parliament and I must admit that it is a special pleasure for me and I am pleased to step up the dialogue at this level between the executive and the legislative authorities and thus show additional respect for the Croatian Parliament and its role in articulating the foreign and European policies of the Republic of Croatia. He would also like to look back on the arrival of European Council President Donald Tusk here in Zagreb on the 25th anniversary of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia. The former Polish prime minister, who is here at the half-term of his role as President of the European Council in this way as the first EU man, has shown as much as he himself and European institutions respect Croatia, its achievements and its role and contribution to the European project. I think his speech in Croatian is unique. As far as I know, there are few Croats who spoke so well of both Croatia and Europe and our common values. I also congratulate you on this pay phone after I did so last night to the newly elected President of the European Parliament to my great friend Antonio Tajani who took over from Martin Schulz yesterday. And in this way I can say that in the leading places of all European institutions, above all, he had excellent acquaintances of Croatia and our friends and political, and personal, and people who believe in this project and who will be sure in the next 2.5 years on their duties to be our partners in solving common problems. This is an opportunity to make a summary of the work of the European Council in 2016, a year which was not only specific to a number of aspects as we have seen for the Croatian political scene, was extremely special, unusual and for the EU, and we can also say about global movements. We experienced a scenario that in the Prime Minister, two members of over 60 million people resigned after the lost referendums. That hasn't happened in Europe yet. A referendum on the remainder or departure of the United Kingdom from the EU to the polls drew 70% of voters, 48 were for, 52 were against. Several months later in Italy, a referendum on constitutional changes took place on President Renzi's initiative, a referendum that tied the government's political fate to the outcome of a referendum that even 68% of Italians came out, 40 supported a percentage of the reform and even 60 were against it. That Europe has not yet experienced. And it is precisely in this context that it is extremely important that we lead a European policy, that we recognise the trends that are currently taking place in it and that we will position the Republic of Croatia especially after President Trump's victory in the US presidential elections and the new global circumstances, and also very clearly speaking more coherent Russia's policy on all theatres of global events at the moment. In this context, Croatia participated in 6th European Councils, 5th formal and 1st informal. The 4th of the 6th meeting was attended by former Prime Minister Oreshkovic, and I participated in the last 2nd meeting representing Croatia. Let me begin by saying a few words about this last meeting of the European Council held in December, which had several important topics of migration, security, economic and social development, the issue of youth and issues of EU foreign relations and foreign policy. Since I spoke about the European Council in October immediately after returning from Brussels, I will put an emphasis on the key issues that dominated the debate on the last day of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in December was December 15th. When it comes to migration, Croatia considers it and I have made it clear that the Member States' strategic uniform response to solidarity is an optimal approach to the management of migration pressures. We view solidarity as a value which is the basis of the European project, and the views of Member States on the division of burdens and responsibilities, i.e. By accepting a number of asylum seekers, I believe, and according to the Croatian division, which should be fair, equal and proportionate. Croatia has committed to the acceptance of 1600 people over the past period, and so far only 19 people from Italy have been realised under the system. In 2015, 211 persons were asked for international protection in Croatia, from which 41 requests were granted, and in 2016 that trend was increased to 2231 requests and 99 were approved. We supported the reform of the European asylum system, and our view is that the right way is to effectively manage the EU's external borders. And in this context, we have expressed satisfaction with the rapid establishment and beginning of the work of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, which we consider to be a good example of the European response to the crisis. It's our priority, of course, to so-called. The eastern Mediterranean or Balkan route remains closed. This is also politically important for Croatia, and we need to insist on dialogue with the countries of Southeast Europe and all EU members as well. The approach that includes co-operation with partners is the only possible situation that we have today and remains in continuity, and that we provide Croatian borders with all the measures that the Croatian police are doing today using both technology and people without building physical obstacles. Regarding the external dimension of EU migration, the Council confirmed all those conclusions concerning relations with Turkey, in particular a statement between the EU and Turkey to be implemented in full and without exceptions. This is particularly important since Turkey is the key and the main country that can determine the dynamics of further refugee migration waves towards EU territory. At the European Council, we also discussed new agreements signed with a series of African states from where the inflow comes from the Middle Mediterranean route and which will be among other things the main theme of the informal European Council meeting in Malta in early February. EU policies should be focused on the full use of all instruments that create the causes and risks of migration to address in those countries where they arise, where there is instability, poverty, conflicts, wars and all that encourages a number of people at risk for their own lives to go into uncertainty towards EU members. And in particular, we need to step up measures against those involved in migrant smuggling and human trafficking. They are precisely profiting from a human accident and destabilising EU members. It is a strong consensus between the heads of state and the EU government. The second issue we discussed in December was the issue of security, the issue of combating terrorism, where we reached agreement on two significant legislative acts, the Anti-Terrorism Directive and the Regulation amending the Schengen Borders Code as regards systematic checks at EU external borders. The objective of the Anti-Terrorism Directive is to ensure a common response to the appearance of foreign terrorist fighters, thereby strengthening the deterrent effect across the EU and ensuring the effective punishment of the perpetrators. This Directive transposes international obligations under Security Council Resolution 2178 of 2014 on foreign terrorist fighters and recently adopted an additional protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. I supported on behalf of Croatia the adoption of this directive, which I consider to be a quality criminal-legal response to the security challenges that today represent foreign terrorist fighters and returnees. Croatia supports the implementation of all measures and activities to prevent the use of a financial system for money laundering for the purpose of terrorist financing. We have also fully supported those measures aimed at establishing supervision of financial flows, as well as preventing the misuse of financial and non-financial systems to cover up illegally acquired funds. What is important and what I would like to point out here is that we have had one amendment to the conclusions of the European Council in paragraph 9 where we have inserted a formulation to take into account the specific situation of those EU Member States which are not yet within the Schengen system in order to avoid any problems of further strengthening members of the Schengen system, i.e. The border between EU members who are in Schengen and those who are still not, and as you know we are one of the countries that is passing the evaluation process, we have discussed this in the government and with the President of the European Council of Tusk and have made it clear that this is one of the priorities in which the financial envelope for EU accession was 120m euros, and where we want, for example, not to re-separate today's single border control, which would naturally slow down the course of control and possible problems, or slow down the border crossing, and, of course, also cause additional costs. The EU has adopted its global strategy on foreign and security policy in June 2016 since then, there have been a number of documents concerning its implementation, the action plan, a joint statement from Warsaw, co-operation between the EU and the North Atlantic Alliance in the implementation and the EU Security Agenda, and for Croatia, the values shared by the North Atlantic Union and the EU are very close and we believe that we must make a continuous contribution in both organisations, seeking to ensure that their action is complementary and that there is no duplication of activities. The aspect that was high on the agenda of the European Council in December was, of course, the economic and social situation in Europe, and the issue of youth. We had a meeting with the President of the European Central Bank, Draghi, who held a presentation on the state of the European economy with the conclusion that the situation is good, the prospects are good, that economic growth is around 1.7%, and that 4 million new jobs have been created at EU level over the last three years. Of course, it was also about the impact of a negative referendum in the United Kingdom on the economic stability of the EU and the risks it could pose, especially for financial markets. Croatia supported the extension of the European Fund for Strategic Investments until 2020, so until the end of the current multi-annual financial framework, which lasts until the end of this decade, whose audit as you know so-called. The mid-term review under way at this time and is being negotiated both within the Council and through a triage with the Commission and the European Parliament. I reiterated that it would be crucial not to have an unbalanced geographical representation when it comes to projects and investments from this fund. It is the kind of blinding funds from the European Structural Investment Funds, and the European Fund for Strategic Investments should be the real mix that will give additional value to the implementation of projects throughout the continent, as well as in Croatia. We also supported the European Commission's intention to extend the guarantees for young people and its funding through the Youth Employment Initiative. You know that in the first three years of this financial perspective, the focus has been placed on projects for young people because this is a question of youth unemployment recognised in a number of member states, and Croatia is among three to four Member States where the problem is clearly visible and we can say acute. The implementation of the guarantee in Croatia has so far accelerated the process of developing relevant policies, and we welcome its continued role in the fight against youth unemployment with a focus on making implementation as successful as possible in the coming period. This is one of the very clear and accepted tasks I have given Minister Ćorić who has the task of making all the resources available from this guarantee additionally strengthened by national means. The foreign policy topics were discussed in detail on the way of ratification of the Association Agreement with Ukraine, of course in the Netherlands, where one negative referendum was also held, the third negative referendum on 6 April and the adoption of a decision allowing my court in the Dutch Parliament to take note of this consultation referendum, while also recommending that the Association Agreement has clearly defined objectives and does not immediately assume the next step, it is in a position to ratify this agreement in both Houses of the Dutch Parliament, and in the context of parliamentary elections held there in the spring. The special guest of the European Council was Aleppo Mayor Hagi Hasan, who at that time spoke of a very difficult situation in Syria, especially in Aleppo. You know what came after that, as well as the talks that were scheduled in Astana and Geneva. When it comes to the United Kingdom, I would like to mention that here are these two meetings of the European Council that I've been to, 28 of us even four were new, ladies... and I in October, and Italian and Lithuanian prime ministers were new in December, so four new ones in just two months. Her speech, some of you may have noticed yesterday that the result of the referendum does not leave any dilemma. However, what is important is that the whole process will start at the moment of notification of the launch of Article 50. The EU Treaty, therefore, is the possibility of leaving a membership that has never been in practice before the Lisbon Treaty. And what is important is that this process of negotiations is arranged, to be predictable, to be led by the European Commission by former Commissioner Michel Barnier and former French Foreign Minister who was also in Croatia a few weeks ago and with whom we discussed the technology of the process that will certainly take several years. What kind of regulated relations will the United Kingdom have with the EU afterwards, it is only coming to see this because it is neither the classical relationship between the status of accession or any strategic partnership. I think it will be about some form of institutional cooperation that has not been defined by the EU's institutional architecture until the end, and neither are the United Kingdom's wishes known to the end. On the part of Croatia, the important aspect of this European Council, along with foreign political topics and young immigration, was, of course, the debate we had on the sidelines on a number of issues relating to global relations between the EU and Russia, where it is clear that relations should be redefine with regard to a number of changes in terms of strength. And in this context, a new kind of dialogue with Russia will be one of the key topics for 2017. When it comes to earlier meetings of the European Council held as I said in February, March and June, what I think is important at the moment is that Croatia made an effort in February to reach an agreement with the United Kingdom was one of the constructive countries when that package was negotiated, which was discussed in the Croatian public as well. Unfortunately, he was not too useful because the referendum had a different character. But the issues that dominated were economic issues, better quality use of the European budget, and particularly European structural and investment funds. A few words about what's expected this year. This year we enter the 60th anniversary of the Roman Treaties and therefore our Italian friends decided to host the end of March meeting of the European Council to mark the 60th anniversary of the European project. That meeting has a lot of ambitions but from talking to all colleagues there is a sense of reality right now. The EU will never be the same again after the United Kingdom exit procedure is completed. I have said it before in public and I will repeat it and now I think it was a huge unforgivable political mistake for David Cameron at all to go to such a referendum that was neither needed nor needed and he speaks a lot of things about the referendum as an institute because instead of one win situation in my opinion, it was only for him within the relationship of the force of the conservative party that became a losing situation and for him, personally, it was already quite clear, quite certain for the United Kingdom and we will see only all together in the global financial markets when the whole story is over. For this reason, a declaration should be expected in Rome to make a summary of the moment in which the European project is still in place today. We cannot expect a renaissance of the project after such results from a broader context but we must show direction. And in this context, I see in particular the great importance and responsibility of Croatia. Croatia is perceived by many EU members, so you could also understand this through the messages of the President of the European Council of Turkey as not only in terms of the order of the last EU member states, but the country that demonstrated with its political moves very clearly that with the full consciousness of the nation, the state, what we achieved only 25 years ago in our society and in our society may be even stronger than those who live in peace after World War II over 70. How important it is to assume the values on which this project was built peace, cooperation and economic prosperity. And that is why it is extremely important what role we will play in the context of the policy of those EU members from Central and Eastern Europe, what message will we send to our neighbourhood in Southeast Europe, how will we address the open issues we have with our neighbours? I also said this yesterday after the current hour of opportunity and this calls upon the Croatian Parliament and this Government to resolve quite a number of open issues on the agenda, to resolve them in a rational way by firmly representing national interests but also by taking care of methods and cooperation and the future of relations with countries with which we will share and cooperate, and the economic interests and movement of people in the decades ahead. That is why I find it consistent and, by my deep conviction, the policy of agreement on strategic priorities when it comes to foreign and European politics should also be important at the level of the Croatian Parliament. You saw yesterday that the large compromise coalition at European Parliament level was partly encouraged by these elections which were unusually marked the end of a major coalition between the peoples and the European Socialists and now turned into a coalition of broken and liberals who, to the greatest extent, chose Antonia Tajani as president in Croatia, need to make sure that the direction we have towards European politics is as unique as possible and that we are behind it in our international activities. This is very important, and so our partners are watching us and they want to detect whether we share the same direction and the same values. I am convinced that by emancipating these topics, we will have the opportunity to build this kind of culture of dialogue and, by my court and to agree on key issues, whether it is relations with the BIH, with Serbia, open issues with Slovenia and the context of INA-MOL with Hungary. These are all topics that are there and will wait for either us or others if we do not use the time ahead to find out in a responsible way the many topics that remain unresolved after 91. It is my impression after talking to colleagues on the European Council, and these are meetings for, many of you know it, but there are some people who are not aware of it and who have not seen this changed technology of work. So only the 28th President of the European Commission, the President of the European Council, the High Representative for Foreign Policy and only a few associates are in the European Council's halls. A more intimate atmosphere at a meeting of the European Council than here in the Croatian Parliament. It is a very small circle of people who focus on these topics around 12 to 15 hours every two months and determines the direction of work throughout the EU and the entire European project. This closeness of the relationship between those who are particularly important at these meetings and I think that we have space through our engagement at diplomatic level, through your engagement in parliamentary diplomacy, through the contacts we have through party international activities to position Croatia as a country that believes in the European project, which gives it its contribution in a responsible way and which can serve as a model for those who have aspirations to join this project. This role we play in this changing global and European context must be used in the best possible way. And that is one of the objectives of this very dialogue that we are working on and we will work regularly during the term of office of this government because I am sitting in benches where you have now had the impression that there are too few of these topics at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and nothing that happens in the legislative process is almost in any way not a little bit if not 90% associated with the legislative process and the role of the Croatian Parliament. I therefore believe that this combination of the political context of the legislative process which is rarely conditioned by activities at the level of European institutions and the important contribution of the Croatian Parliament as a representative of the Croatian people must be united and always kept in mind when we articulate our views both on the national stage and on the European partners. These 25 first years give us reasons for a lot of pride, and these three years that we have until the Presidency of the European Council, or the Council of the European Union, because the European Council will be chaired by the President of the European Council, but for our ministers, for our colleagues at lower levels of government, it will be a challenge that our state administration has not yet faced. And it will be a real test of how much we adopted the content but also the methods of work of the project to which we belong and to which we contribute, and then the Croatian Parliament will have great challenges, and therefore I expect us to prepare together for that responsibility that we will have in the first semester, i.e. the first six months of 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26339	Thank you, Prime Minister. The representative who first reported for the replica is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear President of the Croatian Government, I am pleased that at the beginning and here you have finally pointed out that you want to involve the Croatian Parliament more in creating our foreign policy, but also in our attitude and approach to the European project and European policy in general. That is why I would like to ask you the following, of course, also because of the Croatian public, and also because of the fact that you are, apart from being the Prime Minister and the president of the HDZ party that belongs to the European public in the European Parliament and European integration. I want to ask you next. In front of the European Parliament, a plenary session in Strasbourg will be held tomorrow on the agenda of the Marie Cal Rodriguez report on the European pillar of social rights. It's about a report that was triggered by Mr. Juncker himself. It is about standardisation, i.e. trying to standardise basic social and labour rights in the EU. What concerns me, Mr Plenkovic, is that representatives of the European People's Party including our colleague Shujica have submitted a number of amendments to this report that have passed on the Committee, and these amendments are in fact opposed to the obligation to introduce and define minimum wages for a decent life and regulate the rights to maternity and parental leave, and to promote exploiting concepts such as zero hours of flexible working time contracts and everything else that goes on the hands of the employer above all, rather than the worker. I think that in the context of the problems we are facing in Croatia, which is the outflow of young people, which is that almost 60% of the working people work for minimum wage, that more and more people in Europe are working, working for small wages, on the edge of poverty, that the growing difference between the poor and the rich is, please assure me that I have misheard that HDZ representatives will vote in favour of this amendment or against the report, because of the Croatian public, because of the credible policy and your Government on social issues. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Please tell me I read it wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26341	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26342	Col. Hajduković, you know that these topics are especially when it comes to labour rights, social rights largely being addressed at national level by the subsidiarity principle, so here you have had the opportunity to see that the Croatian government also made unilateral decisions on what minimum wage would be, just like the previous government, i.e. before the previous SDP government made the same decisions. I remind you that I also said yesterday that in our decision this year we were better and higher in terms of salary increases than you in three years all together in 2012 to 2015. I haven't seen this report, I'm going to check with my colleague Shuic, see what's going on, but I'm sure it's one of those reports that have a form of recommendations that's not binding. So this is not a legal act and the amendments submitted by the representatives of the European People's Party are certainly coordinated and will never go against the rights of workers to harm the social status of EU citizens and when I study in detail what you are saying I will answer you to this, and at this point here I do not have that document in front of me right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26343	Thank you for your response. The next representative to report for the replica is Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister. It is good that you are here to discuss, I will use it to open some important topics for our citizens, especially those that are being debated on the council, which could be found very quickly on council topics. It's good to have this form of report, and now we've heard what's been going on at the European Council meetings. It would be good to hear as you said yesterday in what areas and how it was invested in future relations between Croatia and the United States during the visit of the President of the Republic of Croatia. I have also referred the question here before you, I say to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I expect his answer to the question of a representative who is in charge of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and after that we will see and how we have invested in these relations with the United States as well. What I am particularly interested in here today, and all Croatian citizens are interested in, is the topic that you and the media have opened for the past month, that you are supposed to be an advocate with Governor Vujčić as quickly as possible, which I do not think is good for the Republic of Croatia at this time for a number of reasons, I have no time to explain it, but all of those risks that the Joint Monetary Union and the common currency bring for a small country that is not yet prepared for entry, which is still needed for a while and which must work on its own in a way to be prepared and on one side of one part of the sovereignty that we also need at this point, which is our national currency. So, I object to Croatia's rapid entry into the Monetary Union, I hope that This is also your position, and I hope it is not true, and I hope you will now tell us what is the position of the Croatian Government or your own. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] on the issue and whether such talks have already been held on the European Council. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26345	Thank you, Agent Gordan Maras. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26346	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Maras, I am sure that you as a responsible representative have read the Treaty on Croatia's accession to the EU and that is the importance of the Croatian public knowing that there are no dilemmas, so when EU accession is then legal gains are accepted as a whole. One of the benefits of the European project is the European Monetary Union or the euro and the euro area. So this is about the commitment we took, which we ratified in the Croatian Parliament and which is before us. To access the euro area, you need to accept and meet certain criteria. As for the position of the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament and the previous decision whether we are in favour or not, I think it has been made and, as far as I remember, it has been made consensually. As responsible Prime Minister, I spoke to the governor of the CNB because the CNB has an important role to play. There are EU-level bodies that belong to what the central banks are doing and where dialogue on these topics is also being conducted. I believe that the time ahead must be used to bring us closer to meeting the criteria. And on that track, we will also go towards reducing public debt and all aspects that would lead us to meet the criteria for introducing the euro one day. From the CNB, I expect detailed, thorough analysis of its professional services, at which stage we are, which is the effect, which is what we would do, which would be good if the Croatian Government, the Ministry of Finance, were working as well as our entire fiscal policy to get closer to achieving this goal. It was the essence of our conversation and the basis of what we will cooperate on in the time ahead. So, dynamics, none of us think it's gonna happen by the end of the year, by the end of next year, but I want us to take advantage of it. The mandate we have in order to get concretely close to achieving the objective we have taken over 2011. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26347	Thank you. Representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26348	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I thank you for your willingness to, together with us here in the House, open foreign policy issues much more often than she has ever been, because everything we do in this country has its reflection on the country's international position and we are all aware of that. You mentioned in your statement some indication of President Trump's foreign policy, the newly elected American president. The President of the Republic of Croatia visited the United States and then informed you of the results of her visit. I would like to know whether you have been informed and whether you have spoken and taken views as co-creators of foreign policy on statements or indications of Mr Trump's policy, that more and more countries will leave the EU to weaken, that the EU is the Trojan horse of Germany or a tool for achieving German domination in the EU. Many European leaders are in shock and have publicly shown themselves about such a possible foreign policy of the United States. Since our president has said that we will influence the creation of U.S. foreign policy, I am interested in whether you have taken views on these statements and how do you intend to share with the president in creating US foreign policy on these issues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26349	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26350	Today's topic relating to the 2016 European Council's report does not apply to interviews by newly elected President Trump who were in this year and which are analysed not only by European leaders but by all commentators and all foreign policy experts, so I believe that you are doing the same. I will tell you what is the policy of this government, which is the policy of the parliamentary majority, and I don't think your policy is far from that either. I firmly believe in the European project, I firmly believe in strengthening the mainstream in this European project, it is the key responsibility of those parties that have management capacities at all levels of government. I don't think the trend will continue, that this is the result of a referendum in the United Kingdom's exception and error. I'm saying it's never supposed to come to him again. He held the political volunteerism of a former British prime minister who personally sent himself into history in a political sense by such a mistake for no real reason. And because of one man's mistake, I don't want to build a trend on the European stage and I will do everything as a Croatian representative on the European Council to turn these trends around. However, we will be responsible for monitoring the new policy of America as a major global player, how much pre-election rhetoric, transition rhetoric will have its concrete manifestations in the policy that will go beyond January 20th and then watch carefully what transatlantic relations are, what the role of the North Atlantic alliance, what are the EU and NATO relations, what are the EU and the US relations and what is Croatia's position. I will also discuss this with the President of the Republic through the forms that we have in the design and implementation of our foreign policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26351	I thank the Prime Minister. Representative Zeljko Glasnovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26352	I thank the President-in-Office for the strategic aspect of what is happening in the EU. And primarily I would mention the external threats, we know of the great Serbian imperialism that continues with other means, Islamic unitarism in the neighbouring country, etc. a primarily for some internal threats primarily to the EU's legislative process. What I understand is the EU produces hundreds of legal regulations every year but the question of whether the Croatian judiciary is able to unify and implement these regulations. As we know ours, we inherited a single, legal system of the former state, we have hundreds of thousands of pending cases in courts and such a process, by a legal process we will disappear as the Visigoths seem to me. Because some of these regulations 11, 12 times come through the Parliament, but time is critical and still has no functioning state and that legal system is certainly a major challenge. That's the first question. The doctrines don't interfere, we interfere in the Warsaw Pact, it's because it's failed, and NATO doctrines, which only mixes administrative anarchy and modern economy. Another issue on key painful points, which is what separates the Croatian people today, and this is a question of decommunisation and dealing with systems, former systems. He had an example. The platform, the educational platform, is a European platform for memory and conscience that gives us a framework for us to solve these problems through, for example. Reconciliation committees, etc. The European Court of Human Rights has passed the law to, for example, must return the confiscated property, which is confiscated. We haven't solved any of these problems yet, and these are the two key issues. The real issue is the legislative problem, and the other is the issue of decommunisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26353	Thank you. Thank you, Agent Glasnović. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26354	Thank you, dear colleague Glasnović, for the two questions you asked. The first question I would not put only in the context of our abilities when it comes to the judiciary, about the implementation of European legislation. You are here, the Croatian Parliament, an extremely important role in transposing EU secondary legislation, in particular the directive. You know how much work we've done in the access process. Nearly 700 legal acts, over 1500 legal acts, have been carried out by their kind of legitimate tsunamis earlier in the Croatian Parliament. We are now in a position to follow the legislative process from the aspect and government through the Council and the Croatian Parliament through various forms of roles of national parliaments in the legislative process. And they, not only with their own content, but also with a method, have the task of strengthening our legal system, its reliability, predictability and efficiency. This is what is good for our subjects and for all those who want to do business in Croatia. The second topic you mentioned is the European Platform for Reconciliation and Memory. I know that subject a lot better than many people think. I was the vice-president of an informal group in the European Parliament dealing with reconciliation of European history. I have thoroughly analyzed and seen what other countries in Central and Eastern Europe have done on this subject. They did it just before we did it, they did it in the '90s, and they almost completed those processes at the beginning of the last decade. Croatia did this job in the way they did it in peace, because we were then in a situation of defence against the great Serb Milosevic's aggression, we did not have time for the process, nor did we have a thorough debate with the past. One of the ambitions I have for this government and for the time ahead with the important role of the Croatian Parliament is that this process in a mature, rational way, we spend an inclusive way and determine ourselves according to all the totalitarian systems of the 20th century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26355	Thank you. Representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26356	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you a question. It's about the BiH. What kind of attitude do you have toward the BIH today? We see that political situations change every day, you saw for yourself that the Serbian Republic does not respect the BiH Constitution and that some things are happening very strangely. In particular, I would ask you what attitude you will have towards the expelled Croats from the BiH, and I will especially mention from the Bosnian Posavina. You know for a fact that there are nearly 200 thousand Croats who had to move out of their homes, they are expelled, exiled, the Serbian Republic happened, not today after 20 years, 25 years of silence, and 5000 Croats have been returned. Their houses are unrenewed, so I ask if Croatia has a strategy for the Serbian Republic and what attitude it will take towards Dodig. We see for ourselves that simply these people have no chance of getting to their homes, not building them. Well hundreds of homes, hundreds of villages are burned, standing today, for 20 years and Croatian politics on it is silent. I want it anyway and I want the Serbs back in their homes in Croatia. Therefore, help these people because the 200,000 fates that are happening in Serbia, especially in the Serb republic and others in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats are certainly neglected. So please do something about it. You were talking about boundaries. The other day we were talking about our police not being well, our police aren't enough and they're not enough to protect our borders in Eastern Slavonia. I know that well. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]] They're not well equipped, so please pay attention to that matter, especially again. I repeat that you are wrestling from the Bosnian Posavina that... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26357	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26358	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, first of all, let me answer this last question. Croatian police and the Ministry of the Interior have stepped up control of the external border of the Republic of Croatia, of course, by bordering the Republic of Croatia towards Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in Eastern Croatia. And it's not just the police who are territorially competent, but other activities, and I think we're leading this process in one responsible and very high-quality and effective way, and I've been regularly briefed by the Home Secretary. When it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it is quite clear and that a great deal of agreement has been reached between all political parties in Croatia, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is an important number of foreign political topics for Croatia, but also a topic concerning the issues and positions of Croats as a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Three of our fellow MPs who were elected here on the list for Croats outside Croatia come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, they speak on the subject regularly, and this was also the parliamentary issue yesterday from Foreign Minister Stier. My first international visit was to Sarajevo, Mostar, Kiseljak. We will also prepare a joint session of the government and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The issue of Croats and their position within Republika Srpska's entities is on our AGENDA. It is also important in terms of return, i.e. the possibility and support of the return process. I was also in Orash, in Banja Luka several times over the past few years, conducting dialogue with political representatives of Croats, with Banja Luka Bishop Komarica. I am aware of all the problems and it is a lasting responsibility and the task of helping this process much better and much more than it was in the years behind us and that the signal and voice of the Croatians from the Bosnian Posavina association and they live in many parts of Croatia as a guide and advice on how to best put the state on the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26359	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26360	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you've looked back on foreign policy. We are witnessing that chapter 23 has been opened to Serbia in pre-accession negotiations with the EU and that it has gained the status of the small Hague, it has obtained the status of jurisdiction legally in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, over Croatian defenders in this case for the first time in history, it has happened that the aggressor will receive the right to judge the Croatian defender in European gains. And that's where we have to look at this moment through the prism when it's increased, i.e. when they openly run the state of Nikolic and Vucic, people who were the enforcers of Milosevic's policy, who were chief advisers to the Chetnik Duke Vukic, who called for the borders of Greater Serbia, which means that Croatian diplomacy was not well placed in this case. Because if we compare what Croatia had to fill in from those big four words of sad and shameful arrest, location, transfer, arrest and processing of the most prominent Croatian sons. Serbia was allowed to be a judge of Croatian defenders, and we see the calls sent before the Orthodox Christmas where it was said, where it is also called for Milosevic's policy, where it calls for the threat of Serbs and that the envoy of Vukic, who has now declared himself the prime minister, who called for, will mean the threat of the Serbs to defend Serbia by all means. This Croatian policy has failed, this Croatian policy of the sea, I call you must stop until this law, jurisdiction in Serbia, is changed which is above the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I further stress that the great Serb policy of leaders who were Chetniks, Chetnik dukes and Nikolic and Vukic, that today they are jeopardising Croatia and we must also be grateful to the people who are the Serb national minority who defended Croatian territory in Croatia. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26361	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26362	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, first in terms of relations with Serbia and the position of the Croatian government in the context of Chapter 23 on justice and fundamental rights. I remind you, negotiations between Serbia and the EU began at a time ahead of the previous Croatian government. So that's number one. At that time, common positions and a negotiating framework for negotiations with Serbia were formed. At a time when we were in the European Parliament together with several other colleagues, we also launched an initiative through resolutions concerning the commissions and reports on Serbia's progress for the first time in EU documents concerning Serbia's jurisdiction in the processing of war crimes. So that's what HDZ representatives did. In the past government, you have here a former foreign minister, Kovač, who has advocated putting into the EU position negotiator a number of aspects that speak very clearly what are the criteria that Serbia needs to meet in Chapter 23, and among other things concerns the issue of the hybrid, regional jurisdiction of Serbia for the processing of war crimes, a topic that we have opened many times and which, by the very existence of such legislation in Serbia, creates uncertainty among Croatian defenders, we have said that several times. And that's one of those questions I said there must be a topic on the agenda for Croatia and Serbia to resolve. As a responsible EU member, we want to guarantee the safety of Croatian defenders, above all, the security of movement. There's not a single case on the agenda right now. There may be potential and we will do everything possible to address these issues through the negotiating process, and of course this applies to the very dynamics of this negotiating process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26363	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26364	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, Croatian Prime Minister. I welcome on behalf of the HSS and, in my name, this practice to inform us about the meetings of the European Council, and I am sure that our public is interested in these topics as well. And one of the important issues for the Croatian economy is the exit of Great Britain and Brexit, in which European policies are thinking about protecting their economies, and for us much more importantly whether you and the HGK and other competent institutions have talked about this issue and what we are planning specifically to do to protect the Croatian economy that this exit from the EU has as little effect on us and on our exports as possible. And we can see in this connection that the European Council and European policies are thinking about the problem of young people and the unemployed, we see that so far the policies in Croatia have had devastating effects, that there are a high rate of unemployment especially for young people and that our young people are leaving. Here I am pleased that the European Council is dealing with this problem that you are thinking in a similar way, that you have tasked Minister Šorić with increasing activities from national sources in this direction, so we are particularly interested to see if you can tell how much of the funding from the national budget and when the first measures can be expected and give young people a chance and hope that they will also have a job in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26365	Thank you. The reply of the esteemed Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26366	The issue of youth employment or reducing the unemployment rate is one of the priority issues for Croatia. So Spain, Greece, Italy, Croatia are unfortunately four countries that are at the top of the phenomenon of this problem that prevents the rapid integration of young people into the labour market. That policy, which has existed for several years under the model of Scandinavian countries at EU level, is that it avoids the number of young people who are neither in the education system nor in any kind of traineeship, nor in any kind of vocational training must come at least. Therefore, the guarantee for young people and is one of the instruments that should solve this problem effectively, it is as an added value to national funds. Kola Ćoric has brought together a team of people who have been dealing with this particular youth employment problem for several years and also through the NGO sector. In the European Parliament, too, I have held a large conference on the subject with representatives of the Commission and young people. I think that we will try to do this task more well and more effectively than before, bring EU budget funding to the end-user as quickly as possible and thus help reduce the number of unemployed young people in Croatia. It is an acute issue of Croatian society, Croatian economy, Croatian social tissue if I can call it that, and one of the important roles to help make this phenomenon smaller is a quality education system. And therefore, the continuation of educational reform will certainly be a priority of the work of this government and in this respect I believe that we will bring out young people from the educational cycle who have abilities and critical opinions and analyses and synthesiss, and also have a prerequisite that for quality specialisation and competitiveness in the labour market not only Croatia but also the entire EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26367	Thank you. And the final replica of the Prime Minister's presentation is that of the distinguished representatives of Anne-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26368	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Plenkovic. First of all, I would like to thank you for your information on the meeting of the European Council, and I am particularly interested in whether there have been any discussions at these meetings on a major elemental disaster that happened not only last year, but also countries in the environment, both Slovenia and Austria. We know that there is a European Solidarity Fund that allows financial support to a particular Member State in the event of a major elemental accident, and also that in Croatia last year, the elemental disaster amounted to more than one billion kuna, and only fruit farmers suffered damages of more than 500 million kuna, while only 20 million kunas were paid out of the state budget for compensation, even though we at HSS asked that this amount was much bigger for our agricultural producers, since we know how big the problem is. So what I'm interested in is whether this problem has been specifically discussed at these meetings and whether Croatia or the ministry has taken concrete action regarding the search for these funds from the European Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26369	Thank you. Here's a response from Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26370	Thank you. The two last meetings I attended were in October and December, given the circumstances of this particular case, there was no question. However, the European Council, of course, gives signals and messages to an important European solidarity policy when it comes to major natural disasters and is not unusual to discuss this. The European Solidarity Fund is extremely important, we have used it on several occasions in recent years for the various disasters that have occurred. The procedure is such that it is done by the competent ministry, the government is asking the European Commission to be analysed, the European Parliament is giving consent and the funds are then transferred to a certain percentage, so there is never a full refund because one significant percentage of the funds comes to Croatia. Therefore, the issues of solidarity on the European Council are crucial, they are the very core of the project, the very essence of the functioning of the family, that first reflection to see what our neighbours can in particular help those who are at risk. Therefore, at informal meetings whenever this happens, you always have expressions of solidarity and mechanisms that exist are well-stalked and settled at any level of the Council, either the Commission, or Parliament, or at any other institutional level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26371	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia for the opening statement and for the answers. And I'm opening a debate about his exposure. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, the first word will be taken by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26372	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, and I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for this report that opened my eyes as a little bit of a report in this House. Namely, I have until today been raising some weak hope that you are still the Croatian prime minister, but after your words today I am firmly convinced that you are just one extermination project and nothing else. In fact, such a swearing in everything that is on this continent and in the world, it is truly rare to hear. The EU's slaughter, faith as if it were a religion. I really don't remember any Croatian prime minister ever speaking like that in this House. Not only have you not been ashamed to use the word masterstream as something positive but you have expressed your full agreement that, as you yourself said, a small circle, a group of 30, 40 people decide on everything that happens on this continent with inconceivable consequences for hundreds of millions of people. I don't know at one point I just went through my head that famous song "Yalta, Yalta" where a couple of people took a map of the world and drew coffee and cookies. And the consequences of that as we can see, we are feeling today in a world divided that may also result in World War III. Let's say the open blindness of the EU's follow-up involves, among other things, corporate leverage, bank leverage, further social injustice. I mean, now from this conversation of yours, I realize that you will actually support and... and everything else that every man, a common man of common sense, must stand up to. Not only will you support it, but you even think that you must be ahead of those who conduct such a policy, that you must be the leader and thus become clear that this story of some national interests that you allegedly represent is nothing more than just one cover, only one smoke screen to implement a policy that is actually contrary to the interests of the citizens. Here are some concrete examples of this report, so for 2016 as well as your government directly. What was the point of you going to Ukraine and there sharpening relations with Russia, doing further damage to the Croatian economy, although the damage has already been enormously measured in tens of millions of euros especially for farmers, to teach the history of Crimea. I'd really like to ask you if you even know what the history of Crimea is. And do you even listen to what he says? Newly elected American president? How does he treat Russia? Do you know how much damage she suffered, how much damage did the United States suffer from sanctions against Russia? How many dollars? Just zero. Does that tell you anything about your foreign policy? Have you heard a statement from a few days ago that several other countries will leave the EU? Has that statement also been made in your opinion by a populist and a demagogue, or has that information been spoken by a man who is very well informed about all the events in world politics? What is your statement also saying that Croatia will introduce the euro in the next period although you know two things well, firstly that Croatia has no conditions to introduce the euro because our public debt is too large, and the economy is too weak for Croatian citizens and citizens of Europe to trust in the euro anymore. Austrian citizens believe in the euro, 11% of citizens believe in that euro, in the Czech Republic perhaps even less, in Hungary and you are now announcing that we are going to introduce something that has already been rejected by the entire people of Europe. That might be a bit of a cartoon, but I don't know about the introduction of feudalism. So one idea has become pure anacronism. Of course, by not going further into the fact that we are giving up Croatian sovereignty by giving up our own destiny, our own future, our country which we have gained very hard and bloody through 1400 years of existence in these places. This kind of foreign policy that you stand for and that the previous government has stood for, for example, policy towards Syria, is a disaster of all disasters. Such mutilation, advocacy to foreign prime ministers and ministers as it began with the former foreign minister, and through the others it continued all the way to you. Do you know, and I believe you know, that you are informed, that the oil fields in Syria are worth 23 billion dollars or about 150 billion kuna. In whose interest have we given up such riches? In the name of what? Why we damaged Croatian farmers with sanctions on Russia, Croatian tourism. From what I hear, new sanctions are being prepared for Croatia, caused solely by your statements. We'll no longer be getting parts for military technology, so it's announced. Our agencies in Russia will have to pay a special tax, or tax. What's all this for? Is this the real national interest of Croatia as you say? Is this some kind of attitude of Croatian citizens or is it actually a policy that uses this very narrow group of people that you yourself have listed who today wants to rule the world in a non-democratic way and actually introduce a hidden dictatorship. I would also refer to your statement that the EU is making efforts to reduce youth unemployment, so here I would like you to answer how the European Union reduced youth unemployment in Croatia by not knowing young people moved out and employed in Germany or Ireland. Is that a success in solving youth unemployment? Croatia is the second from the bottom, from the unemployed young people in Europe. I think the first one's just Spain. Where are the measures that Croatian citizens feel some benefit from the EU? This year, your government will assign each of us including these MPs here and including newborn children only this year, only in 2017 you will charge us 12,000 kuna each of us, 12000 kuna, and we from the EU receive from the EU 2000 kuna funds annually. So we're changing 12 by 2 and we're saying that this is some kind of progress, as it is in our interest. I don't know, please, I'll spend one day 24 hours on Croatian streets, in Croatian homes. Let's see how people live. What this EU has brought to Croatia, this policy that began in 2000 after the president of your HDZ who tried so hard to protect Croatia's interests, this endless borrowing. Get your demographic, economic, agricultural statistics. Look how many sheep, cows, pigs, milk, anything in Croatia, and see how this one statistic falls into a abyss from which there is no end. So I think what you said today must be very serious. We simply need to understand that for the next four years, the same harmful policy will continue as it has brought us into this state and that we must simply all ask ourselves not only young people, but also whether there may be any more point in living in this country. Is the battle for Croatia finally lost? We have, among other things, this year and, as MP Glasovic said, we will have to vote in the EU-led Parliament, so here are dear MPs 71 of the law as long as it takes us to pass the laws in at least 71 days, in order to vote on laws that we can't discuss at all. What are we going to discuss? On European directives and European regulations. We'll be here shortly after this discussion of the arms and explosives procurement and registration laws. What exactly are we discussing? About whether it's a neck or a neck, whether it's blue or blue. So basically the cosmetic changes themselves, but at the end of the day, we don't decide anything. Therefore, from your entire report, we can only briefly conclude that Croatia's foreign policy and its participation in the EU has turned into a complete debacle. When we put all this together on this visit to the President of the United States, we can conclude that with such a government, Croatian citizens, with the mention of their duties and everything else that goes with it is not well written. And I believe I'm going to cause some criticism now, but I'm glad that this speech is recorded, that it will be able to be seen in four years, that it will be able to look at itself in 50 years and in 100 years the same way that today there is still a phonogram of Stjepan Radic's statement, "Don't crash like geese in fog." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26373	Thank you. Your debate caused a whole series of replicas, a total of six. But before I give my word to the first replica, I have to correct you, it's a little bit of you, in the Czech Republic there's a coin of the Czech crown, not the euro, that's what you said. But in any case, the first replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26374	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear comrade Bunjac, there'd be a lot of themes to replicate, so I'll only be two. First of all, I know that you are also aware that the project of Croatia's accession to full EU membership is one of the two important projects on which the Croatian people have reached consensus, so here and here in this assembly. You weren't there at the time, but I believe you're familiar with it, so this is how you talk about this project that has reached consensus on me is completely inappropriate, it's your right as a parliamentary representative. On the other hand, calling the legitimately elected president of the Croatian government a Brussels project beyond any reason is, primarily because he was elected in the multi-party democratic elections in Croatia and thus you underestimate the mind, I would also say the will of two million Croatian voters who went to the elections on September 11th. If that's how you ask and perform here in this assembly then you can rightly ask a question, whose project are you? Whose project is the Living Wall? If that's how you can call the Croatian Prime Minister and all of us who elected him here in this assembly, then you underestimate the minds of those of us who elected the Prime Minister here in this assembly. The way you've been performing lately raises the question of whose account and whose name do you perform in this way when you underestimate the words of Croatian voters and parliamentary representatives? I'd like to ask you to make a public appearance here in this assembly once too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26375	Thank you. The honourable representative will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26376	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bačić, this is not only possible for me to think or think of the Living Wall. If you're going to look at a lot of media news, it's about what I've been saying. So I'm not the first one to mention that the prime minister is set up here with the support of Brussels but I'm just convinced today, so I'm convinced by the prime minister himself. When you say it's very unusual to speak against the EU here, so I remind you, we had a referendum, so look, 35% of the citizens were against joining the EU, that's a higher percentage of the votes you won in the elections. So I speak for more citizens than you do here on your party behalf. You formed a government, but with MOST, with minorities and other smaller coalition partners. Without it, the question is whether your party would achieve that result. And what I regret to say is also the fact that you yourself will, very quickly, as you have turned against all your former prime ministers, probably turn against your prime minister, and then you will probably use the same arguments that I used. These are the same prophetic words that are not difficult to understand because we all know that your party president actually used a vacuum that was created in the way it came into existence. You wished him luck, you believed, some Croatian citizens may have believed, but the sobering will be painful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26377	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26378	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you said that EU policy is a policy of subsistence to banks and corporations. You asked the Government if we must be leaders in the ministry and in the implementation of this policy and you said that European policy is contrary to the interests of Croatian citizens. Now, look, you and I can be hundreds of times opposition in this House, you mentioned and the Croatian citizens themselves went to the referendum and decided whether they wanted Croatia in the EU or not. 35% were against it, but let's not forget 65% was for it. Therefore, we can criticize the government for using membership in the best way for the benefit of Croatian peoples and Croatian citizens. We can criticise her for such matters or whether she effectively and qualityly represented our interests in the creation of common European policies. I'm willing to participate in such a discussion. But we cannot call the government because Croatia is in the EU is obliged for citizens to implement European policy and represent these citizens in all institutions and all EU decision-making bodies. That's what we had a consensus on in Parliament, Mr Bacic said, so SDP stands by that consensus and we will consistently continue to respect such a policy and the will of citizens expressed in the referendum until it changes in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26379	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26380	Representative Klisovic, therefore, if Prime Minister Plenkovic has a rival in this assembly in his upcoming Brussels, it is certainly you. And so this shows one very obvious fact, which is that between HDZ and SDP there is actually no significant difference. This, however, is what you have now said that the Croatian people voted in a referendum why is this government of yours where you were a member of the banning all other referendums when you swear so much in such a manner of national declaration? Why didn't you allow Mrs Markic's referendum, the Vukovar Defence Station? Why, among other things, would they not allow a referendum on exiting the EU today? And here I am going to try to organise a referendum on leaving the EU and will you allow it? You will not, you will abuse the institutions, and you will ban such a referendum. At the time of the EU accession referendum, such fairy tales were told that we would travel, that we would have salaries, that we would all get jobs, there was not one critical opinion on public television that would be contrary to EU accession. And those who promoted the EU all know how they did it by being paid thousands and thousands of euros, rich Brussels salaries and other benefits, they were promised places in the administration both by the UN and in fact the entire referendum was directed today, which is unfortunately possible today that some idea of democracy is clearly given and in reality the money of the corporate banks in collaboration with the same-paid media is not allowed to discuss an open topic but is actually the result already well known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26381	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26382	Thank you, Your Honor. So there is a representative of Bunjac and a doctor of science who makes one critical reference to the policy represented by our Government and one of you will say that, Croatia will say by the will of the citizens to the EU referendum but forgets that the Constitution has been amended by our country because our Constitution protected our statehood and our sovereignty in a way that said that more than 50% of the total number of citizens must be to deprive our sovereignty, to enter into some other state communities, to enter some new state communities, to enter some new Yugoslavia. And then came gentlemen from HDZ, expert Vladimir Seks and he gallantly changed the Constitution in a way that no more than 50% of Croatian people must be to associate with some other countries. And what happened? You're talking about a referendum, so it was a dumpling referendum. And why is that? If 5 people had come out to that referendum of yours that you organised and that 5 people 3 were in favour, we 4 million would have been pushed into the EU. And then you give that lesson about I don't know the right to know about self-determination, human rights, democracy, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, and beware of which is an even worse paradox that Mr. Bunjac unfortunately did not point out, you have a local referendum on whether to build a golf course on Srđ, for example, a higher turnout is required, or more than 50% of the total number of voters must be against or for any decision to be valid. So in local referendums it takes more than 50% and in a referendum on loss of sovereignty there are 5 votes of 0.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26383	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26384	Thank you, colleague Pernar. So you are right that Croatia has given up the works of its sovereignty by staying in the EU. We see this clearly from these reports, and from these laws that are already on the agenda today, we will see more. I would just like to briefly mention here that Croatia's sovereignty is very hard to gain, many people have lost their lives and lives to have a free Croatian state today. Read what they said about Croatian statehood Ante Starcevic and Stjepan Radic and you will realize that they would definitely not be for the EU today. Among other things, they can quote Stjepan Radic, who said: "Europe will not and should not help us, because it is difficult for one who is waiting from another's bag of bread." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26385	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26386	A respected colleague has criticised the prime minister for supporting the EU as a project. And then you mentioned the late first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman, that's his program. The last item of Franjo Tudjman's programme was Euro-Atlantic integration and NATO and EU entry. It's already been written to you by 89. So that's where the president of the Croatian government doesn't get any new aces out of his sleeve, that's our program since we were founded as a party. You talked about all the problems in the EU. Try to ask yourself a question where there's better health care on the globe, there's better education systems, there's better protection of workers, there's greater job safety, there's greater freedom in a democratic sense, there's greater freedom in a personal sense, anywhere on the globe of the Earth? Is it Latin America, is it North America, is it the Far East, is it Africa? There is no, there is no, no one went to the EU because they would glorify the project as a project but because they would try to live better and better. And in the end, if you were somewhere else as a political force organized and started your election trip, you wouldn't be there. You as a political option can only be in the EU, in all of these other places you would not even be allowed to register. They would be resolved within two days of the Far East, America or any place on the globe you include and claim that they might be better in the EU would not be as political forces for two days. You only have chances in the EU in the criteria and standards that the EU has made, of course, with the will of both Croatian people and Croatian political decisions written in the first programme of Dr Franjo Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26387	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26388	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Mesic, unfortunately for you, according to the World Health Organization report, the country with the world's best healthcare system is Cuba. So, to say that it's better for us I don't know, it just says that it's better there. Now I don't know, maybe you know better. But I'm reading official reports. The other thing you say that we wouldn't be there would be us. Well, no one can forbid me to live and act whether I'm in a party or not. Throughout the history of a small group of people you call villains, populists, demagoses and rebels changed the world. Well, even in Cuba, 12 people began to rebel, so as you can see, the results were in China, Russia. Always a small group of people. And we're running history just like it was in '89. As you say in the barracks, a small group of Croats began to create the Croatian state. And over time, here's what happened? It happened that these principles were in fact abandoned and that in fact Croatia was not what all those who in 1990 had an honest heart and with many ideals started to create a state. Those aren't my words. Ask your representatives and representatives of MOST and Croatian citizens, is this Croatia you dreamed of in 1990? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26389	My colleague Bunjac, I don't know that my colleague Mesic used the term that you are wrongdoers and so forth, so it's not right to say things he didn't say. A colleague, Mesic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26390	In breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 238, because an esteemed colleague simply did not tell the truth, because I do not call anyone wrongdoers. However, the European democratic cultural tradition allows for such attitudes as you do and as I do. It's certainly not a respected colleague's case in Cuba. Try it! As far as health care is concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26391	Let's not do this now! Comrade Mesic, let's not get into these polemics now. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26392	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bunjac, you have indeed made one claim that cannot stand and she is saddened that you are a representative in the Croatian Parliament and you say here that someone is not the Croatian Prime Minister or Croatian Prime Minister but that the Brooksel project is an insult to all of us who sit here because we had a session of the Parliament where Mr Plenkovic was just at his government and became Prime Minister. 45 of them were against it in this House, and three were restrained. And that is the basis of Croatian democracy, those are rules that must be respected. Your verbal acrobatics are allowed and I think in the past two months you have managed to offend all of us here very thoroughly, all those who do not please you and even say not to worry about whether someone is the president of the state, whether the Prime Minister is showing one level of disrespect for everything. This can be understood by a certain kind of anarchism or by what you seek as a party. If someone project Brussels is what to call the Living Wall and whose project are they? Are you the Moscow project and their policy or one policy we used to listen to? Us and the Russians 150 million. Is that it? What does this project look like? Is this project falsifying all kinds of documents? Is that what this project contains? Is it when the Hall of the Living Wall chooses, when the Chief Board of the Living Wall chooses the Assembly or the Assembly of the Living Wall of three members chooses the General Board of five members. Should we live in this world? Are these yellow envelopes that don't have owners dealing with certain institutions now? So there are people and perhaps even in this House who allow their hairs to operate on their heads? That conspiracy theories are the solution to many problems? But give yourself a little more courtesy and you're not the moral verticals of this society as much as you want to present yourself to all of us here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26393	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josip Boric, for the replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26394	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, please have an audio recording of my speech. In my speech, there was absolutely nothing offensive, nothing vulgar, unlike the representatives present here and the employees of the Parliament who compared the Living Wall members with medical diagnosis and with different other ugly expressions. So, to argue that, therefore, the prime minister works more in the interest of Brussels than in the conduct of national interests is fully legitimate, so political dialogue and claims and I remain behind it. So I am firmly convinced that such a prime minister and such a government will not bring any real breakthroughs to Croatian citizens, and at least it will contribute to the achievement of those dreams on which Croatia's 1990 ideal was created. So I ask you that if you want to rephrase something to me that you're using arguments, not to abuse the data you've learned at some ministry below, therefore some other disqualifications that show that you have no arguments but we're actually right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26395	I thank the esteemed Mr. Bunjec for his reply. The next call came from prominent counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26396	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. Well, your colleague Bunjac has expressed his indignation that we are members of the EU and you asked us if we know that our citizens live precisely because of it. I would ask you, do you know, can you assume that only our citizens would have lived if it wasn't for a number of projects that were realised by European means? Do you know how much on these projects has been hired by our architects, designers, builders not only engineers but also auxiliary workers, how much of our machinery has been activated here, produced, sold different materials from construction materials to those equipment? Do you know that our numerous citizens have been given a water network thanks to these resources, that we are building sewers, and that is why we want to protect our seas, that it is not a threat to our tourism? Do you know they're in the construction of a number of schools, kindergartens? How would our citizens live if it wasn't for these projects? How many jobs are there, how many personal incomes are secured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26397	I thank my esteemed colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. The answer of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26398	Honorable MPs. Croatia has said these things that it allegedly got, and it has, paid itself. So we pay in the EU budget four billion kuna and then we get four billion kuna back and now it's like some big profit. You say that EU funds build schools, I honestly didn't see that school, at least not in a larger number, but I saw that many Croatian students don't even have to pay for the school kitchen, I saw that parents have to pay for the school book, I saw that when the 1st year begins, and parents can't sleep out of worrying and winding up how to buy school books, how to pay for transportation, how to send students to Zagreb, where they will rent an apartment. I've seen teachers who don't want to raise their wages even though the contract signed by the Government guaranteed it, I've also seen schools that don't have basic equipment, let's just say I don't know about teaching as they may have calculated or some other aids that have been present long ago in many schools in Europe. I am firmly convinced that Croatia has enough, so we have enough food and living space and conditions to equip schools. We do not need EU policy, but the more EU policies have put us in this situation. The moment this unfortunate accession process began, that moment began this crisis from which no end can be seen. And I'm afraid it's only a matter of time before we get to the Greek script, and that's that we're going to have to give out islands, that we're going to have to give out airports, national parks, that we're going to cut pensions, and then you're also probably going to say that we're anarchists that we don't know what we're talking about, etc. Time will tell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26399	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for his reply. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26400	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President Brkic, a respected counterpart of Bunjac. When I came today, I had no intention of responding to the first speaker, but I will react immediately because I feel it is necessary. When I thought about whether we should do what I am doing now, which is that after every European Council I come before the Croatian Parliament and talk about what is being discussed at these meetings, what are the topics, how important they are, how much they have consequences for Croatian citizens, some have expressed a small dilemma we will open up a political space in this way, let's say to people like you, to use a speaker for the Croatian Parliament for your political goals, to demonstrate demagogy, to quote you, to pulsism, but above all a profound, astounding ignorance and not informativeness. This is what may be the main message that the Croatian public needs to hear and need to know. One of my key tasks as a politician, but also as president of the government and president of the party, will be a political, argumentated battle and debate against you and your politics and your demagogy, your ignorance and your delusion of many Croatian voters. That will be one of the key goals, believe me. And that's why I'm convinced this is useful and good and people need to hear it and need to know it. It's okay business methods are like that, dialogue is needed and dialogue is good. But do you dare tell me I'm someone's project, based on what, the basis of which legitimacy? I who also won the mandate for the Croatian Parliament a few years ago and for the first time for the European Parliament and for the second time for the European Parliament and the party and won the elections in circumstances that did not look that way. I even have a mandate in the city council, I have all three possible legitimate mandates that you can have local, national and European, one I've given up now. You slow down the legitimacy of Croatian voters to me and dare declare me someone's project. No, you won't. You will not convince the Croatian public or any commentators, whether they come from the media or come from other political parties. And I'm going to fight this battle very hard and very bold. A level of rude intention to tell you that my visit to Ukraine caused damage to Croatia, based on what, based on what? If we had led the policy of the 90th policy of the first President Tudjman in the way you are now suggesting Croatia would not be complete, Croatia would not be independent. To use the experience of peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov in a country like Ukraine, for Donetsk and Lugnansk, what is wrong with that? Who can object to that? I've been taught media hybrid communication and warfare, perhaps the Croatian public isn't but it won't pass, it won't pass, and I'm not impressed by you or those who comment like that. As regards HDZ policy, 90th policy, EU accession policy and European values. Well, that was one of the main tasks and objectives of the first Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tuđman, one of the main goals. He who is well, you have, as far as I understand the historian, recognized the role of small peoples in the historical context and context of integration and very well believed the importance of independence and independence and the importance of joining Western democracies and the values shared by them. We, Mr. Bunjac, have not noticed you in the 90s or last decade, have worked 20 years to achieve EU membership and the North Atlantic Alliance. I have heard of you then, neither have I seen you, nor have I heard of any of you of the Living Wall, nor of any of you. I ran a referendum campaign in 2011 which is very legitimate, which is very much in line with the law and which won 66 to 33. I would run it again not because it is someone's project but because it is a will, the majority will of Croatian people, Croatian voters, those who trust those who are able to manage rationally, responsibly, and not to you who are just spreading disinformation. You've now told everyone here that the health system is globally the best in Cuba. Here's the minister of foreign affairs, has little experience in the world globally, so let's have him tell you later on about the achievements and how the country was perceived. I think that's how you and the many other statements you're saying buried yourself in terms of argumentation and credibility. You will not convince a large number of Croatian people to do so. And the claims that you are comparing yourself with Radic, that you are comparing yourself with the first Croatian president and HDZ are so funny and so amazing in my court that you are even able to say that it can only pass on your little coffee circles. But in the Croatian public and in Croatian politics, it will not go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26401	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andre Plenkovic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to return to the topic that I have replicated and in the opening work when we talked about the report in front of the European Parliament, the report by Marie Joao Rodriguez on the European pillar of social rights that you said you were uninformed. But obviously the entire EPP group is not uninformed and that the truth this report will not be binding but will probably find documents in front of the European Parliament already in March according to this report which will be binding. But what I would like to draw your attention to is that some members of the EPP more concrete colleague Petir said that, and I am now quoting her statement "Croatia is a representative in the European Parliament Marijana Petir did not participate in making amendments to the Maria Joao Rodriguez report on the European degree of social rights adopted in December 2016 on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and, in addition, did not sign the amendment or vote for them." I do not think that it is a legitimate issue because of what I said before, because of the arguments that I have asked at the time whether the HDZ position is either the HDZ president's position to support these EP amendments and what will ultimately reflect not only on the social security of Croatian citizens who are part of the EU, but citizens in all EU members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26403	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for the replica. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26404	I can't take the impression that you're on an e-mail or text with your colleague, Borzan. I think they're dealing with their own in Strasbourg today because that's how this information works for me, a little bit of you don't have it. I didn't text or email my colleague Shuic to the head of our delegation. I'm going to do it tonight and I'm going to tell you the answer because you obviously have time. And what you just said had nothing to do with what I was responding to the exposure of my previous colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26405	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Next to the replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26406	Thank you, Chairman. Well, first of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Plenkovic for debated here with us and for expressing his views and views. And I must say that his argument to me as a critic of his policy sounded very good and very convincing. However, the key question is whether this argument is valid? And I don't think so, and I'll tell you why. Because President Tudjman certainly didn't want us to be back in the state union tomorrow with neighbouring Serbia whose EU accession you support. And the EU is essentially going towards federalisation and a macro-state is being created with a common currency, a common military, a common parliament, common laws, etc. etc. And for this very reason, the president of Croatia's first Franjo Tudjman to protect the sovereignty of our country has created a constitution that requires I repeat more than 50% of the total number of voters to support Croatia's accession to another state community. And then what happened? Francis Tudjman dies, comes, Franjo Tudjman who spoke against the black, yellow and green devils, against the Masons, against those who team up with the black devil to undermine her country, her meaning sovereignty. And all of a sudden it means what's going on? Franjo Tudjman is dying, new people are coming to HDZ, HDZ policy is changing, the Republic of Croatia Constitution is changing, ideas are emerging about abolishing the borders of the Republic of Croatia, meaning they are opening up. There are ideas about the elimination of our currency. There are ideas about sharing sovereignty and many other ideas that actually lead to the separation of our country's statehood and ultimately the abolition of our country's right to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26407	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. The Prime Minister's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26408	It seems to me like you two are competing or bidding on who will be more brilliant in knowledge, information, knowledge of law, constitutional law, European law, international law, division of exclusive competences, shared competences at EU level. The Croatian public must understand that you don't know what you're saying, that you're saying things that aren't standing, that are incorrect, that are unjust, that I even have to admit in democracy, that I give you the right to speak, say whatever you want, but someone has to answer you. What you have been doing here for months is not good, it is not useful for the hygiene of public debate in Croatia. No, it's not Mr. Pernar. You're saying now that this will lead to the disintegration of the Croatian state. What are you talking about? What did you swear here as a representative at the Croatian Parliament? What did you swear to the Constitution of a country that doesn't exist or that doesn't exist tomorrow? I'm actually looking forward to this, and I'm going to come to the Croatian Parliament every time for arguments to convince me what I'm saying, because I know what I'm saying, because I've been preparing for years to get in a position to get this responsibility. I didn't come here overnight or accidentally or falsely in the campaign and attract those who might not have had time to hear everything that was true. I ran that referendum campaign right on the truth, just to suppress misinformation. Because parties like your ruin the referendum in France, the Netherlands, Greece, the United Kingdom. He won't be here! And second time you'll get fewer votes and less seats in the election, I guarantee it. This will be one of the key tasks of my government – the fight against populism and demagogy that is untrue, unfounded and deeply disinformed by the Croatian public. That's not going to work for me, be sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26409	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. The following came to the replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26410	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I don't know, you might be used to people taking advantage of you. I won't take advantage of you. I didn't come to this Parliament to nod you, nor did I come here to have you text me to change your mind as you wish. I know exactly who I'm talking to right now, maybe unlike you. I have before me Croatian citizens who suffer and who know that their problems are not solved. And therefore, I speak for them. You, of course, have the right to your opinion, but I appreciate mine more. You're asking how I dared? How dare you at the HDZ Council in June to say that the party is not the hostage of one man. How dare you? If that president you called was elected with 91,000 votes, he had absolute legitimacy. How dare you challenge that legitimacy? So that's why you've been doing what I'm doing right now, and what we're doing, you're estimating it as some kind of illegal act, circusing, ignorance. What makes you think I have ignorance? You say that in the 1990s, Croatia wanted to join the EU and it did not exist in the 1990s. The Croatian Union was formed in 1992. This is the knowledge with which you have and with which you want to shut my mouth. Therefore, come to this House, we will talk, and let Croatian citizens decide who will be, who will receive the votes, who won't, who will be buried as you say. It sounds very like this, you know, there's a little connotation that I'm not saying right now. Oh, no? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26411	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. The reply to the replica, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26412	Didn't you talk about dictatorship? Did I hear you correctly? This was under quotes. I don't think anything of you. I wish you a lot of health, a lot of vulnerabilities, but first of all, I wish you a little bit of information. If you have obtained a doctorate somewhere and if you are able to tell the Croatian Assembly that 1990. The EU did not exist. Was there perhaps a European Community? What were we marking here two days ago? Who confessed to us 25 years ago on January 15th? Mr. Bunjac, a little Thomas Spain Common sense has it? Wait a minute, a little common sense. It would be useful for you, for your party, for your integrity as a politician, as someone who performs responsibly in the Croatian Parliament. You can say what you want, but I assure you you will not get the trust of those who will at least be minimally informed, the minimum that will be informed, and I will do everything I can to ensure that most Croatian people are well informed and that they know who they give their trust and why. Cheap points, demagogy, pulsism, untrues won't work for you, you just won't get away with it. And don't compare your performance here as a representative at the Croatian Parliament as my political speech at our General Assembly. It doesn't matter. We both have the right to speak. But I'm here to answer your arguments that you're wrong. And that instead of thoroughly reading the conclusions of the European Council and the reports that we are sending you here and that you appreciate the dialogue on this, do not misinformed the Croatian public that the Prime Minister is not working in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. My party and my Government and this parliamentary majority work very well. In whose interest do you work, ask yourself a little question, and with what purpose do you go to public and communication space like this? That's what I'm interested in, that would be interesting to know. Here you were asked here by some fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26413	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26414	Thank you very much. Your Honor. I know that your style is not what we listened to on the other side, and I think it was good that you came out and you reacted to this kind of attitude of one club because we all here in the House have to stand in the way of this lowness that appears as some kind of foundation or some kind of policy that needs to be implemented into a Croatian being in the Croatian people, and even in this House, to bring it down in public eyes as one home that we all talk about is tall, that it is most important, and that we behave in the way that individual representatives behave. We have recently had one opportunity here where we also met in a similar situation and ignorance of the Living Wall against the knowledge of a HAZU Academy, where colleagues from the Living Wall attacked Mr. Rudan that he knew nothing, that he had nothing to do, that he had no idea of anything. When Mr. Rudan came out in the closing word they ran out then, they couldn't meet with their ignorance. And he neatly referred them to the libraries of the academy itself, as well as the Parliament to learn something about Croatian history, but also about the entire political system. Because what was the worst thing about all this? What someone is contesting your legitimacy, and we know that the rules exist, and I've said how many votes you've won as Prime Minister for your government and they're doing it daily. And who challenges legitimacy? The man who came in here as a replacement. And I'm a replacement instead of a man who became a minister, he came in here as a replacement instead of a lady who signed the list and faked a certain title that no media house could find a diploma, for example. And he's moralizing us here instead of telling his colleague Pernar, you can't wire a student's x-ray in the dorm room to eat cheaply as a parliamentary representative because you have enough income to pay for a more expensive lunch than you did yesterday, so don't do it. It's this sort of moral part where he should influence his collages. But no, they always give others moral lessons, and they are actually very low and they try to bring it into Croatian society. I think it's the duty of each of us to get in the way of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26415	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for the replica. Mr. Ivan Pernar's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26416	Well, I think Mr. Boric is a little bit. Well, sir, allow me to say please, if you may. [[Invadica Brkić: Mr. Pernar which article please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26417	Please refer to the Rules of Procedure first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26418	Article 235 means I think he actually replicated me and my colleagues, Bunjc, and he responded to the replica of Prime Minister Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26419	You've abused the Rules of Procedure's breach institute. Thank you very much. Replication response. There isn't. Thank you very much. The following came to the debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the esteemed Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And on behalf of the SDP Club, I welcome the Prime Minister and Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his opening statement. Unfortunately, as last time in the European Council's report, we heard more about what happened in 2016, what they said and did during 2016, including on the European Council, and less about what on behalf of all of us Croatian citizens presented by our Prime Minister. And the citizens of this country have the right to know which views represent their example on such an important body as the European Council. The newspapers brought into Croatian politics by the Croatian president, I don't think they are welcome and that citizens do not support it majorityally, and that is, above all, disowning the rights of the media and citizens to know where they were, who they met with and what the highest state officials said on behalf of Croatian citizens. Citizens, parliamentarians, media have the right to ask and know what they say and what the highest government officials commit to. It is offensive for the entire Croatian public if it is declared a mobilising of state officials. The government of Zoran Milanovic won the first award in Europe under the Open Authority Partnership initiative to facilitate access to state-run services for citizens. It was the most transparent Croatian government that set new high standards of transparency in Croatian politics, which in turn gave up all HDZ governments including the current one whose agenda remains a secret until the very beginning of the government's session, and consultations with the interested public are trying to avoid even when the legislation is prescribed. On the European Council held in December as well as throughout 2016 there were topics of interest for Croatia. Migration, Ukraine, Russia, European defence in light of transatlantic relations triggered by Mr Trump's election as the new American president, Syria, Brexit. Migration continues to shift focus from the Balkan route to the Mediterranean. Despite warnings from architects... with Turkey that the situation in Turkey is a time bomb that can explode at any moment and flood Europe with a new million migrants and refugees. On behalf of the DSP club, I asked the prime minister during his first report from the European Council, a question I did not get an answer to, and I will ask him again on behalf of the club. Does the Government support the shift of the EU's focus from the Balkan route to the Central Mediterranean or to migrations from Africa that have been recorded at European Council meetings during 2016. What does the government think about doing on this particular issue during Malta's presidency, which is interested in this shift of focus on the Mediterranean route? The SDP club also asks the prime minister what is the government's position on Austria's new migration policy initiative, which Austria is asking to become a common European policy? The simplified proposal is to prevent migrants and refugees from entering the EU area. The Austrian model would, for example. involved stopping European warships of refugee boats in the Mediterranean their return to the area of uncertainty i.e. countries from which they come or if it is not possible to reroute to third countries where refugee immigration centres will be set up to finance the EU and EU entry requirements are processed. The defence of the EU's external border, which is also the Croatian border with southeastern neighbours, has been a fundamental goal of this initiative, which is also approved by the use of the necessary force towards migrants and refugees. Does the Croatian Government support Austria in this matter? Yes or no? Please respond without excessive nuances and double connotations and delicacy. Just yes or no. The SDP club also asks a question that we haven't received an answer since the government, which is whether the government supports the concept of so-called. flexible solidarity, which has been advocated by four countries and each Member State contributes on a voluntary basis in accordance with its own capacity to provide migrants by refusing to implement the set European quotas. And what is the government's position on the concept of the so-called concept? effective solidarity as an alternative to the Dublin Protocol which has been presented by Slovakia and which is that countries which do not want to see refugees and migrants on their territory can only contribute financially to their care elsewhere. Malta, Greece and Italy are not acceptable to these countries because they fear that these refugees will remain in their territory. Hungary and Austria also do not want to accept, they do not like this concept because they do not want the entry of refugees and migrants into the EU area at all and their requirements should be processed in third countries. But what is the position of our government, what is the position of the Republic of Croatia? In an Austrian newspaper, the president publicly said it is against refugee quotas for EU member states. I am saying, "Every country needs to decide for itself how many people they will receive." Did it consult with the government, is it government position or president leading one of her foreign and European policies different from the government? The SDP representative club is also interested in assessing whether the government is the same as the president that we received the quote "Wrong Refugees". Are the children of refugees who started attending the elementary school in Zagreb the other day the wrong refugees? Are we going to discriminate against refugees by sex, and accept one sex and refuse the other sex? Don't refugee children have the right to family unity? In addition, according to UNHCR data from Syria, 51% of men and 49% of women were avoided. And out of the total number of refugees, only 25% are men between the ages of 18 and 59, so they're militaryly capable. The European Council discussed an integrated European defence and the creation of a defence market for military equipment. Some Member States such as Poland and the Baltic States do not support this concept of the development of European defence, fearing that this will limit NATO's contribution to European security. What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this issue? And the SDP club is particularly interested in the government's position on the statements of the elected President of America Trump that NATO is an outdated organisation. How does the government interpret this statement in the context of the US commitment to the defence of NATO members from the EU that we are? Whether Croatia will need to further increase the military budget due to changes in the international environment due to potential changes in allied policies and the potential establishment of an integrated European defence. With regard to Ukraine, the European Council has been able to find a way to satisfy the Netherlands' concerns about two fundamentals, the EU's potential commitments to defend Ukraine and its eventual accession to the EU and thus to ratify the agreement with Ukraine. It's a positive development. But the SDP club is interested in whether the prime minister's foreign policy initiative in Ukraine is also developing positively or completely dead after it has damaged relations with Russia? In the SDP, we see the problem with the prime minister's initiative primarily because of the timing and the way it was implemented. The government did not define Ukraine as an foreign policy priority and the move went to Kiev at the very beginning of its mandate, immediately after its trip to Sarajevo, with the BIH defined as an external political priority. He left two days before meeting high-level representatives of Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine, so-called Standard format. To try to remove obstacles to the implementation of an agreement from Minsk. Without previous diplomatic preparations in which it was intended to provide support to these four countries for a high-quality and successful contribution from the Republic of Croatia to the implementation of the Mines Agreement, this initiative has a weak chance of living in practice and bringing political points to Croatia in Berlin, Paris and Moscow, and to the Croatian economy new jobs, for example, in Russia. It is equally confusing that after the government agreed to extend EU sanctions to Russia, the president of the state publicly advocates in an interview with the Austrian list "Kleine Zintung" to stop competing with Russia so that we should discuss with Moscow how to stop the war in Syria? In that interview, the president also publicly asks where the common European, foreign and security policy is. And we all know together that this policy is created by EU Member States, and thus by the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who, through the Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents us in the Foreign Affairs Council and the Prime Minister of the European Council. Does the president know what positions Croatia is fighting for in creating a common foreign and security policy and whether it supports them or is it just the views and positions of the government? Its words make it clear that it does not know or support what makes Croatia an additional source of harmful confusion in international relations and proves to be an untrustworthy partner in the EU. Mr. Prime Minister, does Croatia have two foreign policies for one government and one president? You are aware that this basically means that Croatia does not have one single state foreign policy. With this uncoordinated co-creation of foreign policy, you have created only confusion in both the domestic and international public, thus jeopardising our country's reputation in the international public. And since there's still time, let me just have one dipression. In your stand here in the assembly today, you said that one of the priorities of your government and you were fighting against populism and demagogy. I support you in that. It's my political Agenda, and I'm going to try all my beings on that line to perform in my political work. But tell the MPs and their party that you guarantee them that they will get fewer votes in the next election sounds a little bit like a threat especially to a man who has the highest authority in the country and I think it comes out of the framework of the parliamentary and democratic standards that we want to cultivate in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26421	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26422	Compliment your colleague that the former government of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic has been the most transparent government since the Croatian government. You may have thought of this as a European grant in agriculture intended for small OPGs in the Slavonia area that have arrived in very different hands, in the hands of tycoons that have tycoon evicted 50,000 people from Slavonia. There's an empty Slavonia left. Or maybe you mean by the INA report from Cynthia Petrovic who was not bad and who was with your leader. Or maybe you're thinking about repairing Croatian fighter planes, i.e. which are sent to Croatian combat planes sent to Ukraine for remont. I don't see yours in your presentation any great transparency of the former government in which Zoran Milanović was, so can you explain exactly where this visible transparency was and what the effects of your transparency on Croatian agriculture, on the Croatian industry, on preventing young people from leaving rural areas so I would be glad to either investment and projects such as the Pelješki Bridge. Is that starting to build? How long did it all go together? And then I'll say, that you've been transparent, we have effects on Croatia, but we know that more and more young people than that desert transparency is leaving Croatia, and more and more we have empty spaces where, of course, someone will eventually move in, and that's all because of that transparency that has been growing and your government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26423	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. Replication response, dear colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26424	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bulj, I don't need your recognition whether the Government of Zoran Milanovic was transparent or not. It's just that your confession wouldn't have had that kind of relevance that you're calling yourself. The transparency of Milanovic's government was given by 23 international independent evaluators. Even within a global initiative that we were also a member of the Open Authority Partnership Croatia received the first prize in Europe as the state that made the biggest shift during Milanovic's Government on the transparency of public authorities' work primarily on the transparency of government work. It could not have happened in Milanovic's government that the agenda was not publicly published and that the government did not know including a session of the closed part of the government's session. Transparency is exactly the best preventive element and a cure to fight corruption. If there were any deviations anywhere, we'll have an opportunity to discuss it. No law has come to Milanovic's government without having as its integral part a summary of the public debate, a consultation with an interested public. So that's what I'm talking about when I talk about transparency. The journalists did not run out of questions, and they themselves declared the government one of the most transparent as opposed to this government they say is quite closed. So here I am talking about the standard of transparency and international evaluators that established it at the time of Milanovic's government. We've set a high standard. I expect all Croatian governments to follow that standard or possibly raise it even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26425	Thank you very much for your response to the esteemed colleague Klisovic. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26426	... Dear counterpart Klisovic, that I will indeed quote at the very beginning of the report you said the government of Zoran Milanovic is one of the most transparent governments in the EU. [[Specially enabled.]] So I will only talk about one detail that is still the point of the agenda today, and it would be good with a number of questions you asked the President of the Croatian Government that, in order to show explicitly how transparent the Government of Zoran Milanovic was, I ask you a question, how many times has the Prime Minister submitted this type of report to this High Croatian House during the four years of your rule? In other words, how many times has a report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held during its four-year term? So please an exact answer and a clear answer in the figure to judge Croatian citizens about transparency. But citizens have also tried the basis for the government’s choice of transparency, and what you said about the other deviations will likely be known in due time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26427	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blazen Boban, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26428	Thank you. My dear colleague, I see that you are very insolent, your possible and your party, which the international evolutions have just found that Milanovic's government has made the biggest shift in the area of transparency in Europe and has therefore awarded the first prize. Therefore, I repeat once again, it is not up to the decision on you and your individual opinion. I don't think you'll ever praise Milanovic or the SDP government. It just doesn't belong to your political agenda. And it would be good to have a little more objectivity when we talk about other Croatian governments and I am able and I am always ready to commend every Croatian government when it deserves it in those elements of its work that it deserves. Well, in the end, it's our Croatian government. It's not some foreign government out there, it's our government. And Prime Minister Milanovic filed as many reports in the form required by the law as required by the law, and in that sense he did not sin once on the law or break the law that regulates it. And you, if it's any different, deny me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26429	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Klisovic, I think you have made it very clear that unfortunately we have two foreign policies that do not have too much contact with each other. But when we talk about a European policy that is no longer foreign but is very European, so I would dare say in some way our internal policy, then I think that social and labour rights should be very much concerned. And I think we should be concerned about minimum wage for a decent life, I think it's about regulating the right to maternity leave and parental leave, and I think we're concerned about exploiting concepts like zero-hour contracts, flexible working hours, and anything else that would go wrong for workers. We are not vaccinated by decisions taken in the European Parliament, and we are also aware of this in Parliament, our prime minister should also be aware of the foreign and European affairs minister who sat next to him. It is believed that information is not good, but dear colleagues and colleagues have been informed primarily by the unions, the Union of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia and the Centre for Pension Studies addressed the public according to this. One of the addresses of this union memo is also the Prime Minister. I have informed myself from the media that I have finally informed myself from the European Parliament's representatives. But I think that in our work as a national parliament, we need to connect more and more with the European Parliament because decisions are made there that are very much relevant to our citizens, and they concern us as states, as well as policies that we will have to take. That is why, just like you, I would like to hear concrete answers to specific questions from foreign policy, but from the European policy of priorities that we have and which we need to have, and I think again, the social and labour rights of our citizens who are EU citizens, are certainly one of my priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26431	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26432	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You're right, Mr. Hajdukovic. Sustainable development of each country, and the EU also implies not only economic development, but side by side with it to go and social development. The European Pillar of Social Rights is something we should take special care of. A minimum wage for a decent life, so can anyone be against it? The SDP cannot and we propose such a law in this House. but we see some representatives from Croatia in the EU can parliament, and we can only tolerate them if they really didn't know what they were doing. Because minimum wage can't go below the poverty threshold so a man can live with dignity. Regulation of parental rights and maternity leave, so where is the policy that HDZ advocated by the government in the campaign. Family, education, mother must be with child we forgot or another unworthy promise with those seven offered by MOST. Therefore, these are extremely important issues, I can understand that the prime minister was not addressed to them because there are too many questions surrounding us daily, and I hope that his answer to Mr. Highukovic I believe in written form will rightly correct all the deviations that we have mentioned today during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26433	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kola Klisovic is good when the SDP advocates the government's work to promote the interest of the Republic of Croatia through EU membership and I also commend your replica to President Plenkovic when he spoke in the introduction of the report on the work of the European Council. But you remained party-colored when you measured the non-translucency of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic by the same march because you and part of the journalists did not publish the government's agenda enough in time. And you, as Deputy Minister of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, have not forgotten that the government has made a decision at a telephone session without any publication of the agenda to remove eight strategic Croatian companies from the list of strategic companies, including Končar, Croatia Airlines, Croat Insurance, Zagreb Airport, Luka Rijeka, Petrokemija and Croatia Bank. So, as transparent as it was, no one knew two days after that decision was made. I am also pleased that you are in favour of the transparency of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, but it would be better if elected representative and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic in this House defends the transparency of his government and not you as deputy minister at the time, even though you do not... the right to defend the interest of these Governments, but we would prefer to hear that from the then president who is now elected parliamentary representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26435	I thank my colleague, Branko Bacic, for the replica. And the answer of the esteemed colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I thank Mr. Bačić as president of the HDZ Club for accepting my debate where I praised certain things that the Government represents, simply it must be based on the referendum decision of our citizens. On the other hand, you say that Milanovic's government at a phone session that has not been announced previously decided to remove certain companies from the strategic list but did not sell them at a phone session. And let's remember what government did six or seven months ago. It's not SDP's, if I'm not mistaken, it was HDZ, led by HDZ in a coalition with the Most. So I'm not even sure that this is exactly what you said wasn't previously published, but I appreciate it. I wasn't consulted at that session or a phone call, but what I do know is that no repairable damage has been done, and when you go to sell what's been taken down, then you're in a much more harmful and worse situation for state interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26437	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Klisovic. A respectable colleague, Gordan Jandrokovic, appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26438	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've reported objectivity to protect some standards that should be equal for everyone in this assembly. So you paid tribute to the Prime Minister for threatening one of the parliamentary parties by saying they would get fewer votes. So that's why you surprised me, and that's why I reacted, because I would still remind you of the debate we had during today and all the insults, the ugly things, the manipulations, the insinuations that were directed right towards the Prime Minister and the Government and the ruling majority, and the presidents of the Republic did not choose words. Now, you've drawn a sword, then when you're answered in a similar way, then you're offended. So let's be a man, if you're already going into that kind of political struggle then accept that the other side is going to talk the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26439	I would like to thank my colleague, Vice President Jandrokovic, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26440	Thank you very much. I don't know a respected colleague, Jandrokovic. What made you think I was offended? And how can we prove our masculinity, so maybe you should say so, so I don't know if we can try and determine that. But in any case, you said wrongly, I did not accuse the Prime Minister of threatening a representative or his party, I said that what he said may sound like a threat especially when coming from a person in the state de facto has the highest authority, the greatest power in other words. So what I'm saying is that we're still watching what we're saying and the prime minister is really good at it and I don't know how he got away so far from guaranteeing the MP of one parliamentary party, you watch out for the word guarantee that he'll get less in the next election. It may be his wish, it may be my wish, but how can we guarantee it? You know, this word in my opinion has a sound of threats and as such is not welcome in the Croatian Parliament at least as far as I'm concerned about my standards of working in this assembly and in the political field of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26441	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Klisovic. The president of the government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26442	... Klisovic, dear Vice President Brkic, I will not refer to these last replicas. [[Specially enabled.]] I don't think it's necessary but a few aspects of what you emphasized in your speech on behalf of the club. First of all, the transparency of the government's work, so let's immediately demystify an insinuation that doesn't stand. What agenda of this government I run wasn't on the website in advance? One, one day that wasn't published the day before, or maybe you want to say the information concerning government decisions, which are politically important, to be put on a routine, technically on the Internet at 9 or 10 o'clock, and then the public reads about what the government is going to decide already on the portals at 10:30 or 11 o'clock? You think that's wise? So you're a politician, you choose a way when you're going to say something and when you're going to communicate. I've decided as Prime Minister, and behind that, I'm saying that important political information that has the character of what's called if you want to make an exclusive announcement in the media jargon at the government's meetings and publish them? The government's agenda will be known in advance. The government's work plan is already online for 6 months, from January to June at exactly an hour. In principle, every Thursday at 10, except when the meetings of the European Council are held. All documents that can be public, which are public are public. Therefore, I remove entirely any insinuation on the closure of the work of this government. I keep talking to the media every day, I don't choose questions when I'm going out, I don't ask MPs for questions at the current morning, I don't want anyone to ask me anything unless they want to, and they think it's important. I want to hear questions from the opposition who's here to control the executive government and the government. When it comes to foreign policy and migration and solidarity policies, my position is quite clear. Solidarity that in its fullness, is not flexible, is not effective. Croatia has accepted certain principles. We have an obligation as EU members to submit part of the responsibility and part of the burden. What is going towards our economic strength is that our population is ready to accept and that is the policy framework I stand for. I also want us to control the border with all the resources at our disposal, and the physical obstacles in the event of a major crisis will be the last option I will advocate as Prime Minister, quite clearly. When it comes to foreign policy and your reference to Ukraine, why did I go to Ukraine as Prime Minister? Because they called me. I was called by the President of the Republic of Ukraine, called by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, called by the President of Parliament, called me, just on the day of the third anniversary of the beginning of the EuroMayan with many reasons and with many convictions and there I went as a friend and with the aim of accomplishing three tasks that are important for both Ukraine and Croatia. The first is to help develop our economic relations. The Economic Forum had nearly 300 people. ... Croatian economy and Ukrainian economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To convey our experience to them the freshest and most important part of the implementation of the Association Agreement. Who can do this better and more effectively than we can do throughout the European Union. And third, to offer them an export product on which you too, as I did then as a diplomat at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and counterpart Jandroković and colleague Kovac and colleague Stier worked, which is a peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov. Let the voice of one who has something against the death of fewer people in Ukraine? It was a message with which I went to Kiev and which was well accepted and which was well accepted in Brussels, and I do not accept the insinuation of those who reject words and messages and claim that it has damaged relations with Russia. For what? In what way? I've initiated to arrange the appointment of an ambassador to Russia as an extraordinary step ahead of anyone else to send him there and establish relations. What other foreign policy issues do and co-ordination with the president, coordination exists, we talk. It is a unique foreign policy run by this government and you think very well you know the provisions of the Croatian Constitution is clear. We are taking part in consultations in the design and implementation, policy and internal and external waters of the Government with responsibility, not fearing and without difficulty with difficult decisions and with rapid reactions. Everything we've done in the first three months of government, and they'll be marked these days, tomorrow it seems to me. There is a lot of it, we have a kind of small acquis that we have done in just 90 days and at this rate we will continue without any legal walk and without any drowsiness but engaged in the program for which we have gained confidence in this Croatian Parliament. When the opposition has suggestions I am willing to listen to them and I am much more open and transparent than your Government who has been and had its chance for 4 years, and respect for the institutions of the Croatian state shows your former leader and former Prime Minister in one yet unlived way in our political scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26443	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26444	Thank you very much and thank you, Prime Minister, for answering only some of my questions asked. I know it's not possible in five minutes, but I hope we hear the answers to other questions. The position he expressed on the principle of solidarity in the migration policy falls short of those statements made by the president, and I have warned that if we want to have a single foreign policy, we must promote it in the same way both public and partners. When it comes to the transparency of the government's work, you know there are standards on how to publish the agenda. When is the agenda published? So all of this exists as good practices and as standards. It is not left to the Prime Minister to announce when they think it should and thus reduce the time for the public to be directed to prepare for the debates that follow in the government or for documents that will be in front of ministers. Then there's a little room for manipulation. Let's do what we give later, and we'll shut up with a huge amount of human material, so no one will be willing to read it. Put on time, leave time for people to inform themselves so that they can competently and informedly monitor government meetings. As far as Ukraine is concerned, I've never told anyone from the SDP that we have a major problem with the political messages that were carried there. Therefore, primarily promoting the Croatian economy or consulting on how to apply Croatian relevant experiences. But we said that the problem with the way that the whole good idea came into question. Why did the Prime Minister not send his envoy or his minister to the states of Norman form, in all four, France, Germany, Russia, Ukraine indicated what the prime minister is going to do in Ukraine. He tried to win for such support precisely by those countries in the International Community dealing with the issue of Ukraine in such a way that we got their support I think the initiative would live and have very good effects on both the political and economic images in Croatia. This is how you say Russia, so yes, so what more will we say if the Ambassador of Russia to Zagreb, so the authorised official of the Russian state in Croatia, said that they had strained their relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26445	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26446	Col. Klisovic, did you read the Minsk Agreement? Come on, honestly, how many dots are there first? ... And you don't know. [[You can't hear it.]] You don't know? ... Tell me, do you remember the catalogue of the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Poduna? [[You can't hear it.]] Remember the establishment of trust, the ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons, the transfer of financial flows, the demining, the return of refugees, the organisation of elections in occupied areas? Does that sound familiar to you? Remember. ... Bravo. [[You can't hear it.]] And you tell me now that if you did a test and removed the titles of the catalog of what was made in the reintegration of the Podun and the agreement from Mine, few would at first sight change the font, the time and even the language knew exactly what it refers to and what part. That's the point. So you honor me with the methodology, to me that, so let's just say, I know a little bit more about the relations and the situation in Ukraine than the others here, because I've been there 12 to 15 times in the role that I had before, I've studied both history and relationships and the nature of conflict and the context of relationships and I know the actors. I know these actors, I know people who deal with it every day. And I also know that we, and there is no one else on the European continent, can offer to help this process in the best way and towards Russia in the best way. Ten thousand people died there. You know why they died? For the purposes of the Association Agreement. When did the Mayan start? It began at the time when the former Ukrainian president ordered the then prime minister not to sign the Association Agreement. And that's the point of this European debate here. Ten thousand people died in those three years. A little respect, little feeling that we who only know what it is to be a victim of aggression, help a country that was on the road, be told, was the first member of the UN to recognize us. And that's the point, that's our specificity. You're trying to make it clearer, to be tighter so we don't lean on each other, not to listen to others in foreign policy, when you make an argumentary step, and then that's not good either. Then what's good? What kind of policy is good? That I also hear from those who criticise the European aspect of our policy and foreign policy. You just don't have both arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26447	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Plenkovic, for his reply. Next came the replica by the distinguished colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, you mentioned in your statement that in the last three months, this government has kind of gone in one good direction. By listening to this debate all morning, I can't help but think about the criticisms you've been given and I must say that everyone here must know and must hear that during the SDP government, social rights have been reduced. In particular, people with a disability of 500 kuna were taken from them, not to list everything else. And now here's the Living Wall that's been criticizing you all morning, not in these three months, suggested any constructive proposal not only for social rights, but for people with disabilities, but nothing else. So I'm glad you said that this government is going in a positive direction and that's what it feels like. It's what people with disabilities feel, it's what workers feel, it's what everybody feels. One constructive conversation with the unions that this government led we had no opportunity to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26449	Thank you, dear colleague Lukacic. The Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26450	Thank you very much to my colleague Lukacic. And it is my special honor to have been on the list together for elections for the Croatian Parliament in these last elections and to advocate your activities for the implementation of our programme, especially in that domain relating to the rights of persons with disabilities. But I'm going to refer to something else because, like all of us, you're talking about all the issues and that's how it should be, and that's social dialogue and relationship with the unions. So one of the first decisions of this government was to immediately encourage the work of the Economic and Social Council with our partners and trade unions and employers' associations. The dialogue was ongoing, we reached a very short-term agreement with the civil service unions. I repeat, Christmas is divided without budget rebalancing, minimum wage has been raised, a unilateral decision on equalising the rights of public service officers with those in the state service. These are all moves made in a very short time. And I repeat once again to the representatives of the union, we are open to dialogue, we want to find a solution in the frameworks that are possible with regard to the budgetary frameworks that are envisaged, knowing about the classy and very demanding process of negotiations. Our hand is out there, not only Minister Coric, but everyone else is ready for dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26451	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Plenkovic, for his reply. We're moving on to the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Vice-President Gordan Jandrokovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26452	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister and his associates. The Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government prescribes that once a year the Prime Minister submits a report to the Parliament on the European Council meetings held last year at the beginning of the first annual session. In addition to the annual reports, with the aim of informing the Parliament about the main preoccupations and directions of European policy at the level of the heads of state and government of the EU, the Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic introduced a new practice of regular reporting of the Croatian Parliament and the public at each meeting of the European Council. To remind you, the first presentation in the Croatian Parliament after obtaining confidence in the Government was just a report just after a meeting of the European Council held on 20 and 21 October 2016. The new reporting practice aims to further deepen the dialogue between the parliament and the government on issues that are in the focus of the EU. I welcome such practice on behalf of the HDZ Club because it is clear, and what today's debate shows is that the debate on European policies has not been approached sufficiently focused and systematically, there is no interest in European themes, and there is a lack of understanding of the importance of European policies in the social, economic and political life of the Republic of Croatia. This new practice and EU policy approach, we are sure that further dialogue between the Government and the Croatian Parliament will be deepened on strategic conclusions that are crucial for the adoption and implementation of concrete European policies. The purpose and importance of this report is of course also in meeting Croatian citizens with a general political and economic situation in the Union and with key measures and processes taken at the highest political level. Let me refer on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club to the main topics of the 2016 meeting of the European Council on migration, security and external relations. The main part of the debate at all five meetings held by the European Council was the migration policy, i.e. the strong migration pressure still present on the Western, Balkan and Mediterranean routes, which, in the context of security protection, imposes a continued implementation of a strong system of checks at the EU's external borders. The HDZ Club advocates that the so-called The Western Balkan route remains closed and will continue to co-operate with the Member States of Southeast Europe and with EU Member States in this light of the Republic of Croatia. An approach that includes co-operation with partner countries is considered to be the only one that is right to address migration challenges effectively and at the same time shows mutual respect between countries. Furthermore, we would like to praise the great progress made in identifying and registering unregulated migrants at the EU's external borders and preventing illegal migration and returning illegal migrants is crucial to establishing EU security. In a comprehensive response to the challenge of migration to the foreign-political dimension of the HDZ Club, it wants to highlight the importance of EU missions and operations in the framework of a common security and defence policy, in particular in the fight against migrant smuggling and human trafficking, and in contributing to the overall strengthening of security. The HDZ club supports the return of Schengen with the protection of external borders, which was also an emphasis on the Slovak presidency. The Schengen area is one of the most precious achievements of European integration and we would pay too much if we lost it. In the context of the protection of external borders, the operationalisation of the European Border and Coast Guard and the implementation of systematic checks at external borders are also very important. The European Commission is currently evaluating Croatia's accession to the Schengen area. To remind the EU's accession day, Croatia has accepted the entire Schengen acquis and in order to fully apply all the components of the Schengen acquis, so-called Schengen evaluation. For the full application of the Schengen acquis, a unanimous political decision must be taken at the level of the EU Council following a positive Schengen evaluation of the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to enter the Schengen area. Several competent authorities have been involved in the preparation for accession to the Schengen area but the Ministry of the Interior is crucial. To prepare and achieve Schengen standards in EU border management, the Republic of Croatia has made 120m euros available from a temporary Schengen instrument intended to improve standards in the control and control of the future EU external border. Furthermore, Croatia continuously contributes to Frontex operations and provides support for countries on the eastern Mediterranean and western Balkan routes and will continue to actively contribute to the work of the new agency as well as to the people and techniques. In the context of the internal security policy, the HDZ Club supports the implementation of all measures and activities in the area of preventing the use of a financial system for money laundering in order to finance terrorism through the establishment of supervision of financial flows and the prevention of misuse of a financial and non-financial system to cover up illegally acquired funds. Furthermore, the HDZ Representatives Club also supports activities and aimed at freezing the assets of persons suspected of funding terrorist activities where it is of particular importance in their detection of police cooperation, judicial authorities and third countries. In the context of external security, we want to commend the EU's efforts aimed at implementing the global strategy. We believe that the conclusions of the European Council on the implementation of the Global Action Plan and the conclusions on the implementation of the Warsaw Joint Declaration form a good basis for further activities aimed at strengthening the credibility and effectiveness of the common security defence policy, and in particular when it comes to providing answers to the latest types of security challenges. In particular, we would like to highlight the intervention of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the text of the conclusions of the European Council of 15 December 2016, taking into account the specific situation of some Member States, as well as the Republic of Croatia which are not yet in Schengen with external borders. The proposed interventions are accepted, showing that we can very actively contribute to the creation of security policy at the EU's external borders. Furthermore, we also welcome joint efforts to strengthen NATO-EU co-operation and co-ordination, particularly in the area of maritime security, as an example of its success, just participating NATO in stopping human trafficking in the Aegean Sea last summer. The EU and NATO share the same values and face the same challenges, so it is important to highlight the need for complementarity in NATO and EU defence efforts, which can certainly result in the overall strengthening of Europe's defence capacities. As far as external relations are concerned, it is really important to highlight the importance of European and foreign policy issues that we are discussing here in the Croatian Parliament, and this issue is becoming increasingly important and I believe that there is a awareness of all of us sitting here because it seems that the time of stability is behind us and that we are entering a period that is no longer predictable, for which we do not know how things are going to develop and I think that we should really think more intensively about our future when it comes to national security of the Republic. Of course, it requires all of us together and more responsibility, seriousness and preparation for what might be important in the future. There's a lot of signals, why he's saying this, there's a lot of signals that point to that kind of uncertainty and some threats. It was on its way and the European Council was also discussing Brexit. You also saw yesterday's address to Teresa Mei and the taking and announcement of taking very serious steps to get the United Kingdom out of the EU. The United Kingdom's exit from the EU single market is announced. It announces the conclusion of new trade agreements with the United Kingdom and with the EU, as well as with the United States, with Asian countries that bring the EU itself, especially the United Kingdom, into a new situation. In addition, we have major changes that occur in the United States with great impatience and expectation, and we expect the first concrete steps of the new American president. We followed his statements, his interview on the state of the NATO alliance, on the state of the EU, on the common European future. We have elections very close to France, Germany. The more complicated the relationship between the NATO alliance and Russia. Things are happening in our neighborhood that are also a hunch of possible instability. There is Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are relations between Serbia and Kosovo. It seems to me that the Croatian public is slightly underestimating the flagging of weapons coming from the highest state officials of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Republic of Serbia is no longer running away from mentioning weapons and new war conflicts. So the time we live in is changing, the time that lies before us is no longer what it was when we negotiated EU accession, when we joined the EU. We are facing periods of crisis, and we should be prepared for that, all of us sitting here together. So I would appeal on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives that indeed when we talk about such important topics, we avoid demagogy, to be aware that what we say here goes and comes to Croatian citizens who then analyse it and all of us from any political options come they probably take seriously. So maybe if sometimes someone does not seem to care what message this message will send, it may have a significant impact on the stability of the institutions of the Croatian state, on the overall political stability in the Republic of Croatia. And here, once again on behalf of the Representatives' Club, I would like to appeal to the HDZ Representatives' Club that, indeed, when we have issues like this, we take care of increasingly complex international relations. In the end, I would conclude that, regardless of all these challenges and uncertainty, Croatia is the EU member and the Croatian Parliament as the most representative body should be more active and more engaged in the debate and establishment of European policies because they also shape our lives daily. I will remind the Lisbon Treaty, which gave national parliaments additional powers in the field of European affairs, thus increasing their importance in the EU legislative process. So I'm also removing those criticisms that only laws are passed without being professionally and qualitatively analyzed. We have a Committee on European Affairs that has been working successfully for three years now, is being promoted, understands this logic that exists within the EU. So we are no longer just those who uncritically implement these laws but also analyze them and in line with the possibilities of our administration trying to influence these laws to be as close and useful to our citizens as possible. But there's still a lot of work ahead of us. Finally, I would like to say that the HDZ Club welcomes the presented report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held during 2016 and gives full support that this practice continues, so that we do not only have this once a year, but that the Prime Minister regularly informs us about what is happening in the European Union and what are the positions not only of the Republic of Croatia but also of all the other Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26453	I would like to thank my colleague, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Gordan Jandrokovic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26454	A colleague of Jandrokovic, you as an experienced diplomat and you were also foreign minister, mentioned the arms rattle by Serbian politics, i.e. Covering policies, i.e. I must literally tell the leaders of Vukic and Nikolic and others who in one ugly way are carrying out a memo he wrote a long time ago, apparently little now in some different form both towards Kosovo and mainly towards Croatia. Can you tell me why 23 you are open in front of the HDZ club, which is why it is open for you, Croatia has not blocked chapter 23 – Serbia's judiciary in pre-accession negotiations because the fact is, I will repeat what I said this morning and I will repeat always that Serbia has now received what The Hague had. She became a small Haag and that it was for the first time in history that the aggressor would judge and engage and locate, transfer that not always... roars Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But Serbia is being led by the Chetniks at this point. It's the Wolf who was a Cheseliu Cheseliu, it's Nikolic Chetnik. They admitted it. I don't put this in their mouths. They called for the massacres of the Croatian people, the Bosniak people, to great Serbia. And really under these circumstances, I don't know what the Croatian's attitude is. I don't understand who could have opened their chapter, i.e. why Croatia did not block when you know that Croatia had the way to open chapter 23. We were not allowed to declare the economic belt, we had to capture and prosecute the sons most prominently in The Hague, process them in various ways. One ugly picture of people defending the Homeland, and today we are left by Croatian defenders on a hunting ground open to Chetniks. If it is not blocked by Serbian Chetniks, Seselj's key people who have committed huge crimes from Vukovar to Dubrovnik. Do you think that the immediate and urgent Croatian government and diplomacy through the European Parliament should be blocked and negotiations blocked in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26455	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26456	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. So the process of negotiations is for the Republic of Serbia to join the EU is the best way for Serbia to give up large-scale Serbian policies. And the vital state interest of the Republic of Serbia is precisely that through the process of negotiations, the Republic of Serbia rejects and condemns a large-scale Milosevic policy. So this is a strategy that I believe is shared by everyone who is here and Serbia will not be able to complete the negotiations, nor will they be able to close the negotiating chapter that you are talking about without doing so. In particular, this concerns the Law on Regional Jurisdiction, and I am sure that without significant changes, therefore without giving up on that right and attempting to be some kind of regional arbiter, Serbia will not end negotiations or become a full member of the EU. As for the rhetoric coming from Serbia, I think we must be very wise. When you see that someone deliberately challenges you and provokes you and wants to drag you into that kind of verbal accounting and if you see that someone is pushing you and even from our position, for no reason, then they probably have some interests of their own why they do it. And I'm not one of those who's going to stick to it, and because of maybe sometimes the points of politics that you would get on the home court to fight back just as hard, scarred, and tell them that they're Chetniks, etc. If you need it, you can do it. But at this point Croatia is in a dominant position with regard to Serbia, we are a member of the EU, we are a NATO member, we have behind us regardless of all the problems that these two integrations are following today, we have allies behind us. They're trying to find these allies and they're willing to pay a very large price to achieve some of their interests. They have a big problem with Kosovo, they have a big problem in BiH, let's not underestimate it and let's not get provoked and drive to the field that suits them. Croatia is superior, Croatia is a member of the EU and NATO, if we were not in the same position then it would be very difficult for us in these international circumstances, but today we are the ones who have, I am sorry, I am going to finish, today we are the ones who have the opportunity to influence what is going to happen in Serbia, and vice versa, if we are wise enough, it will not happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26457	I thank my esteemed colleague Jandrokovic. I hope that this kindness of mine will allow you to speak more than your intended time to honor all of you speakers and that you will stick to future time and so will Mr. Bulj. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26458	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I wanted to react to this as well as Mr. Bull. Mr Jandrokovic said that the Croatian public is neglecting or underestimating I do not know exactly what word you have said by clinking weapons from Serbia or being indifferent to it. I don't know what you really want to say here if you can explain it a little bit better because Croatia is a member of NATO, Croatia has its armed forces. Our budget is here for the armed forces increased this year with a positive vote and opinion and the SDPs in the Defence Committee. So we're all one public, if you say the public didn't respond properly, that means we're all called here. I agree with you in this response to Mr Bulj's replica, that we should not fall for the cunning games which and manipulations are prepared by skilled politicians from Serbia where we are dragged into rhetorical wars and spiral rhetorical where we only escalate more and more every day, and open issues remain unresolved. So a clear view of all the fundamental issues, clearly spoken in public space, not the answer to any and least meal coming from Belgrade. After all, let's face it, it's our own fault that we inhaled Seselj's life when he returned from The Hague Court to Belgrade. He started provoking Croatia on every single one of his sentences we were jumping. Instead of saying that this is our position on Seselj and his policy and brother goodbye, you will no longer pollute our political space here. We've allowed it to dominate this political space for weeks, if not months. And that's how we got involved in the very political manipulations that some Serbian politicians are preparing for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26459	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26460	As I would say, we have not caught part of the public getting caught from time to time on what comes to us from Belgrade and I agree with you that we must be very careful, very cold heads to assess what the state interest of the Republic of Croatia is and respond accordingly. But when I was talking about gun-stuttering, it seems to me that our public space is sometimes dominated by very banal topics, and we don't notice from these banal topics what's important, which is globally threatening and for the Republic of Croatia, we do sometimes do little things and we don't see what's important from these little things. And this is important, what is currently happening in Serbia, what is happening in Russia, what is happening in Kosovo, what is happening in BiH is very important. The announcements by Dodik to go towards the independence of Republika Srpska's very rough messages coming from the leaders of the Bosniak people today, we have the opportunity to read in one Croatian weekly what messages come from Bosniaks, to bring us, of course, into a position to think about what kind of politics the Republic should be towards, what they should be when it comes to our main allies and how we will position ourselves in the years that may come in months that come, that's what I'm talking about. So, very much through our public and media space, very undetected sometimes pass, very serious strategic messages that come from our neighborhood and from the big world players, we don't notice them, and we're very strict, we're very rough and sometimes not intelligent enough when it comes to our inner affairs. I'm not going to elaborate right now, I don't have time, but that's that call I made from the pay phone and on responsibility for both seriousness and thinking about what might be waiting for us tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26461	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President Jandrokovic, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26462	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. counterpart Jandrokovic mentioned the issue very recently in essence, the issue of the pro-Serbian rhetoric by the government of Prime Minister Vukic, i.e. we will not even say pro-Serbian but large-serb rhetoric. But in the end, they have the opportunity to hear the rhetoric itself, Prime Minister Plenkovic. And what is Croatia's response to this rhetoric? The answer is, Serbia's entry into the European Union is supported. What is Croatia's response to the occupation of the Charengrad Ade? I don't know if you know it, but Sarengrad Ada is a Croatian river island on the Danube border, where this river makes a border with Vojvodina or Serbia. That Charengrad hell is still occupied today. Serbian police are preventing the country's owners from coming to their country. Has Croatia done anything or tried in any way to force Serbia to return that part of occupied territory to us? The answer is of course not. And not only that, but the HDZ together with this Vucic is sitting in the same club of MPs, and there's this same HDZ spilling fairy tales about the fight for national interests, against the great Serbian ideas, etc., and unfortunately, together with them sitting, together with them are honored and what is said to be drunk together in liturgy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26463	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Answer, dear colleague Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26464	My friend Pernar, I like you. You know that. You've already noticed that. But yesterday you did something to disrupt that sympathy. You didn't get up when the Croatian Anthem was playing and it's very hard for you to forgive, regardless of what later it tried to relativize that people put their hands on the heart, etc. and they did something else. I think that no MP who comes here to the Croatian Parliament and sits here at the plenary session when the Croatian Anthem is released, has, has to get up. Whoever doesn't want to get up, get out. It's my opinion and I'll always hold on to it and I think it's the only possible and only right thing to do. As for Serbia, Croatia did not unreservedly say that Serbia would become a full member of the European Union. It will become a full member of the European Union once it meets all the necessary requirements, all the necessary standards as well as all other Member States of the European Union. And it is especially important for us to give up and reject large-scale Serbian politics. And yet I'm going to ask you because you're saying something about HDZ that is with Vucic who, his party is a member of the European People's Party, will become a member only when Serbia becomes a full member, and will only become a member once the large Serb policies have been abandoned. But you went to Serbia and hugged with great Serbs and Chetniks there. I saw it because the media is showing it today. I do not see what your contribution is to the weakening of this large Serbian idea, strengthening Croatian politics and its relationship with the Republic of Serbia. I think you actually worked on them to make them cute. And we Chetniks can't be nice after everything they've done in history. So when you attack others, then analyze your actions first, and they are when it comes to Serbia, and the attitude towards the Croatian state, according to the Croatian state's symbols, have not been quite right in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26465	I thank you for your response to the distinguished colleague, Vice President Jandrokovic. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia's distinguished colleague, Professor Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister and his associates. I welcome you and I'm glad you're in this session. This is indeed one news in the work of the Croatian Parliament to report to the Parliament on what the Government and you as our representative in the European Union are doing, as is happening there. And I would also like to remind you that the item of the agenda that we are discussing is the Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held during 2016. We European Union, therefore the European Council is a handsome name for the Government, the European Government, in fact, of a non-existent state, better said as a political project and this is also the greatest improvement of the European Union project, which is otherwise one of the 20th century human projects and 21st century to end the bloody wars of Germany, France and, of course, other countries. And here, for some 70 years, we have enjoyed at least this peace means the central and western parts of Europe. However, we, when we look at the European Union, are seen in Croatia and almost exclusively from the frog's perspective. Well, from a frog's perspective, man can't see much. It is time to rise to a bird's perspective and see what is happening or to be very precise and immediately at the beginning, Mr Prime Minister, I suggest that on the basis of the significantly changed causes, and the situation and events from the fall of the Berlin Wall to here, and especially over the past few months and years to accept, you may initiate a special assembly session with a theme on the transformation of the European Union with possible meanings, which would include possible scenarios of what will happen in the immediate future. We are today witnessing a drastic change of circumstances in relation to the original ideas and the situation after the fall of the Berlin Wall. When we look at the situation of the European economy, the situation of the economy in the European Union will not go too far if I say that it is veining. The European Union has become the least perspective in the world economy because in the last 10 years, when you look at the average growth of gross domestic product within the European Union, we see that it is the weakest compared to other economic blocks in the world. What are the other changed circumstances that concern us and require debate on the situation and future of the European Union automatically from Croatia's position in the European Union? The lowest rates are economic growth, that's what I said. High public debt growth after the financial crisis in 2008. High unemployment, and in some countries especially on the periphery of the so-called The peripheries of the European Union are huge, enormous, especially young people. The Rivers of Migrants are coming. Thus, drastic changes are taking place in relation to the situation that was up to just a few years ago. When we analyse the past period, we can conclude that the European Union has not been able to meet the challenges of globalisation so far. Why couldn't she answer? So we see by the rates of economic growth, unemployment, public debt and other problems that arise. There China emerged as a new force in any respect that has the ambition to become the leader of the world economy and international economic and political relations. On the other hand, the existing leader of the United States wants to maintain their position at all costs. And on the third hand, Russia is as powerful as the military. So the relationship between strength and situation has changed significantly both geoeconomic and geopolitically in the world in the last 10 years, 20 years. What is particularly worrying, imagine seeing Robert Schuman and other initiators, means the people of visionaries who created this project, to see the wire between the countries of the European Union, between France and Britain, Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, between Slovenia, I think they would be shocked. There is therefore much more that could be listed as those problems and that picture of the European Union that we did not imagine. What's particularly worrying about is a message from Brexit. What exactly is Brexit? It is, in fact, the strongest confirmation that the UK has not seen a perspective in such a European Union. In fact, I will never say the truth, because it may be a difficult word, nor has it accepted the common currency, and its position has always been geographically and historically, so since the migrants appeared, it has sent Brexit as soon as it has sent an even greater message or created greater uncertainty to other nations and countries within the European Union and it is now extremely difficult to create new optimism when this is happening in front of us. So this speech of mine is realistic without any intention of adding some tones that would be populist. What we are particularly concerned about is that the process of building the European Union as a political project of the state that it has stopped. I have already said that the European Union is an unfinished political project of the state. And what's particularly dangerous is that it's become unitary, and it's asphyxiating democracy and creation as far as it's concerned, and it's particularly negatively affecting the future. What is important to note is that at least in domestic relations at country level local politics must be allowed to create, decide because otherwise what do we have? We have hyperinflation of legal regulations over 200 thousand pages already we have, 150 thousand, 200 thousand pages of various directives, one legal prejudiciality that no one can follow in this sense anymore. We must also achieve this situation and behaviour as a small people, but who should be and be proud and must be proud, which is that when someone raises their eyebrows in Brussels, someone jumps right here in Zagreb. Well, we can't afford that. I don't mean you specifically, Mr. Prime Minister, but I mean the period before, so what happened. We need to show that we have an even stronger attitude, that we want to say something even though we are a small country, but that does not mean that we cannot and cannot participate in it. Otherwise, if this isn't the way it is, then it won't be a success. What is the main problem here that this turn has occurred and the situation of the European Union project has deteriorated? Because there's been a capital advantage. We have for the first time the situation that capital manages politics because globalisation has created the need for liberalisation in every respect, which has been exploited by multinational companies, has been imposed, so politics today has become a servant of large-scale capital and multinational companies. Unfortunately, this will not work and this hegemony of capital over the interests of the people in the European Union has been going on for 25 years. However, we must not forget one historic thing, which is that Europe has never suffered central authority or unitary approach, either Napoleon or Hitler, or all others. So we have a whole new situation. Anyone who hasn't learned something from history can be made a mistake. That is why the challenge is great and the need for this Parliament to mean with the experts it has called on us to consider the committees it has to consider a new situation in the European Union, to discuss all open problems and to see how to position or reposition Croatia with one or two scenarios. Unfortunately, we see that we now have a certain kind of world chaos in every respect of the ecosystems of other turmoil, migration, wars are increasingly less and less water among countries, increasingly within the states themselves, means limited. Well in that sense, it should be said that our species, and we belong to a group of homosapiens, it needs to be adapted to life, not the market. I think that the Parliament should be discussed this way because we have been chosen by citizens to think strategically, the interest of Croatian people, the Croatian state and to protect interests, and therefore to move in the direction that is healthy and that protects this people and this country. In this context, I will also mention the euro project. He was in crisis after 2008 when there was a major financial crisis, and among other things, the big problem is that the European Union did not create if it was already working on it, it did not create a single fiscal policy, a single banking union. All this says how much of the European Union's project is skewers. So when a man listens, of course, to our public, to individual approaches and debates, then he sees how much, so there is one poverty of intellectual approach to these problems, and they adapt and worsen. I also suggest it would be good, in this report I said it is commendable to be out, to inform and thus to the Croatian public what is going on. As a Parliament and government, we should balance our three-year existence, stay in the European Union, because I remind you in the 7th month of 2013 when Croatia entered the European Union, we were then on 61% of the European Union average as regards living and other standards. Now we're 59%. Someone would say it's simple to conclude, so we are getting worse as we enter the European Union. It might be better, it might be worse, but let's get this straight, let's see why it was, so I was then among some economists warning that there's no spectacle, that it's going to be difficult, that we have to run our own policy, that we have to pile up on our market, use our domestic currency, national currency to become a better economy. However, it was simply in the cacophonia of voices that was simply flooded. About this context, so to conclude, we need to and we need to make a balance of success both for our countries and for us to see what's going on. Well, here I propose on behalf of the party We change Croatia to soon organise a parliamentary debate on the situation, the tendencies in the European Union, the situation, the changed meaning conditions, the position of Croatia in one real, cold way, respecting everything that we see happening, but above all national interests and everything else. Because if we don't do it and do it, then we can get what an American journalist called from small Yugoslavia and the European Union project itself becomes a great Yugoslavia. And I don't think any of us want it here. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26467	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26468	Dear colleague Lovrinović, I would like to agree with you that in the most humane intentions of the 58th year, the European Community is the European Community. Since 58, economic protection of the markets i.e. the opening of certain countries, so later on for steel interest and coal. However, by joining the European Community in 67 it was a noble intention in the European frameworks to stop the bloody wars in these areas. But today in this aspect, it was the second one in the '90s, in this aspect when we look here, we're going to talk about banks. Banks that are examples from another country but in Croatia do business or they get it the way they got it from Croatian citizens who subsidized them. who have been recapitalised, and were later handed over to the hands of foreigners because of Croatian policies. How can you interpret it because I know you're an expert at this, for example? The Italian bank has 2% interest, and we are the same European Union, and in Croatia 10%, 11, 12 along with other charges? Did Croatia's policy in the European Union really fight for the fairness of protecting Croatian citizens and interest, in terms of various loans that cannot pass in Austria, such as Raiffeisen Bank savings credits. So, Croatian policies did not play and protect the national interests of their citizens in the European Union. Bad policies, servant policies, court policy. I know that you've talked about it a lot and I know that your position will be clear why Croatia pays bigger interest in citizens' banks when it raises a loan or a private person or a natural person? Why are there more interest rates in Croatia five times and the same bank than in other European Union countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26469	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. The answer of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26470	Here's dear colleague Bulj, you've really asked one question that interests citizens and so all entrepreneurs, meaning all businesses in Croatia. Remember before entering the European Union as people rejoiced, expected better conditions, as well as on the financial market, at a lower interest rate. But as you can see, it didn't happen. So, we, in front of our eyes, have witnessed that our promises have been failed, and this shows that those who, at all costs, rushed and did not protect national interests, did not go so far as to say in the healing of the Croatian economy, other measures of economic policy simply deceived us in this regard. However, the problem and the way of deception continue. So you see these days some analysts, economically and even the governor and the former governor they're telling us if we get into the euro as soon as possible that we're going to have lower interest rates. So where is the end of this deception of the Croatian public? The Greeks said the same thing, and you will have lower interest rates, so gentlemen of the Eurozone and the euro project as it is imagined, it does not mean that countries will have more interest rates than they will even up and will go towards a lower level. Greece experienced an interest rate on its debt over 20% you remember, so is that the Eurozone, is that the project? We have in recent years 6.7.8 to 10%, so I can say that for these very reasons, the Croatian economy and citizens are unnecessarily corrupt, and especially is the responsibility of the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26471	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Željko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26472	A fellow vice president of the Parliament. We're hearing a lot about threats from the outside this morning, but I'd say that again isn't our biggest problem. We have this legal expert, we have some major challenges ahead of us, and this is building a functional framework, an institution that we can act as a functional state. Again, we ask rhetorical questions, why in Croatia the grey economy is twice as big as in other EU countries, not only Croatia but all the former post of the communist country, why is there no transparency in privatisation yet? It has not yet published a list of... loans, all post communist countries suffer from the same problems, which is corruption, nepotism etc., except for Estonia, which has spent a transparent privatisation. That's all we're pulling from the former state. I think we need not only human lustration but scientific lustration, one analysis, and by that we will repeat it more times, that we have got a country that exactly resembles the former state except for one factor, which is hyperinflation. And as for human resources policy, those who have led the country so far, let's say some... communist Yugoslavs have proven that they cannot lead that state, should be removed from public life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26473	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. The answer of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26474	Dear Representative Glasnovic, here I will comment only on this part of your replica, which is a robbery conversion and privatisation can't be called uninvited by a man without this adjective, it was quite a mugging. So we would have a lot of use to see, we feel something significant positive from the EU if Brussels had not ordered that those results of conversion and privatisation be sanctioned which were criminal. This would show a significant effect, for example, of joint action and the benefit we would experience here. I would like to see it personally, and all of us here who represent Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26475	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26476	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Lovrinovic, I read in the press the other day that our prime minister and governor discussed the introduction of the euro, even publicly boasted that the governor had the support in the government to introduce the euro, you mentioned earlier. So I want to ask you, what would happen if the euro were actually introduced, since you're a doctor of monetary fiscal policy? And one more thing I'd like to ask you, since there's now an INA purchase going on, can the National Bank have an impact on that and can it benefit from buying INA so it doesn't sell electrically or anything like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26477	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26478	Dear counterpart Misic, I first read that Governor Vujcic boasted that he was at a meeting and talks with Prime Minister Plenkovic. Whether he boasted of it, if he had received firm support for his plan, which has long been representing to move to the euro as soon as possible, that would be of interest to me. Here's Mr. Prime Minister here, so maybe you could answer that question. Therefore, the introduction of a common currency is not a technical business. It is for me as a citizen, but for the national economy and economic policy it is an extremely sensitive issue and a very important problem. I would just like to remind you that both former Governor Rohatinski and the current Vujčić, they have had in the past 15, 16 years a strategy for the rapid Euroisation of Croatia's introduction of the euro and thus to suppress the full kuna from optics. Now, let's look at countries that feel better about us economically, that's Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, those countries are not even thinking about introducing the euro at all. And those who have introduced Italy and other countries, they now have a good part of the problem and it is shown that by introducing the euro into such a system as the Eurozone, those who are best organised, who have the most powerful, newest technology, which is in this case practically Germany. And as for your INA question, MOL or HEP, I don't have enough time to explain to you, but I'm sure you can use the money at the CNB's capital account. But I'll mention one more thing. As General Motors was saved in America in 2008, when the American state invested about $40.50 billion with the help of the US Central Bank, the banks, we can find an answer to these questions. And otherwise here because he's here, let me have another three seconds, since here the prime minister, yesterday I think, told you Mr. Prime Minister there's no one different, no one else, a better proposal. There are better suggestions, you've called for discussion, for counseling, I'm telling you as well as a university professor, I've already said something they have and others have better solutions to how to solve what we want financially. We want to save INA, but on what terms. Is it for sale, and in the financial structure we can offer a very concrete and better solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26479	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Kovac appeared for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26480	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State. We commend Mr. Prime Minister for coming to the Croatian Parliament today to talk about what the government did at the European Council meetings in Brussels. It is a positive good for Croatian political culture. I'd like to share three thoughts with you dear colleagues. The first thought regarding Croatia and Europe, we had a 25th anniversary the other day, it was nice to see it in Lisinski and here in the Croatian Parliament, came Mr. Tusk. And we often forget that Croatia's recognition and struggle for independence were in line with the idea of Croatia's EU integration. We fought then when we went into battle for recognition and for independence and freedom and democracy to be recognized by the European Community. And speaking of which, we remember President Tudjman's approach speech in the Croatian Parliament on 30 May, the first three points were when he spoke about the tasks that were to be done. The first point of the new Constitution, which we later received the Christmas Constitution, the second point, redefine Croatia's position in Yugoslavia, and the third point of Croatia's involvement in the European Community and Europeanisation of Croatia. So the first important thought of our state-of-the-art state-of-the-art is confirmed where? In Europe from the member states of the then European Community. I wish we had been a little more honest with ourselves personally, that we had said who was the most helpful in helping this sovereignty to be confirmed besides Pope John Paul II, that was Mr Helmut Kohl, who imposed this solution on his colleagues in France and some of the other colleagues in the world, too. Not everyone was thrilled with this Croatian recognition, it happened, and the German government made a decision before Christmas that Croatia would be recognised on January 15th, circumstances changed, interests sometimes changed. But you need to be honest and there's one virtue traditional, classic according to Aristotle, truthfulness. So we always have to say things the way they are and we have to thank these people. I listened to my colleagues, Bunjac, and my colleague Pernar, who are skeptical of the EU, the second thought, the European project to unify countries in one broad community, is a project that is positive if there are no more wars. There have been conflicts, there have been scandals, conflicts at Member State level. We remember between Slovakia and Romania, between Slovakia and Hungary because of minorities, but there are no wars. Imagine that the refugee crisis was so acute that we didn't have the EU? There would be a war on the territory of today's EU on the European continent. Because of the existence of the EU, due to the cooperation mechanisms to this war, there has been no war, thank God, there has been no war. So the peacemaking project is positive, and we have to stress that. But what's the matter? Young generations, not only in Croatia, but also elsewhere, are not interested. You can't get young people with an idea, get the idea that the EU is a peacemaking project, they don't care. You can get them by being able to travel freely, that there is a euro, that they can pay with euro goods or services in Spain, Portugal, Germany, Austria, Slovenia and elsewhere, but with the idea, with the story of peace, of a postwar new story in the area of our continent, you can't convince that story. So we need a new EU story and whether it makes sense to be in the EU. That's our responsibility, too. It is not only our responsibility here in Croatia, but it is our responsibility in Croatia and it is clear that all EU countries have this responsibility, and most of all, the biggest countries that, as the biggest, most responsible. Therefore, to conclude, the project is positive, and as much as the EU is attractive to the problems it has seen in Britain, yesterday the prime minister spoke to Mai about going into the EU exit process, however, she gave a clear answer that a vote would be sought in the British House's parliament on whether or not to come out, regardless of the referendum. This means that the British are still calculating whether they're eventually coming out or not. They are not sure whether they are worth getting out of the EU or not. The other thing that makes the argument the first thing. And now we come to a third important thought. And we need to make that clear in Croatia, there is no need to be afraid of it. We must run away from this pioneering, you know those pioneers of the small so former Yugoslavia, so the EU, we must be honest with ourselves and say that the EU is in crisis. There's an identity crisis. Mr Plenkovic spoke earlier about the Italian election as the new president of the European Parliament. Nobody knows him. If you ask someone in Croatia, Austria, in Slovenia who Mr. Schultz was, who knows? I personally attended a German high school in 2013 and asked young future graduates in the 12th grade, according to our system in the 4th grade high school, if they knew who the president of the European Council of Tusk was, then Van Rompuy. I asked them who the President of the European Commission was, they didn't know. Therefore, the EU is in crisis with the identity crisis, and this should be made clear. She is not recognizable enough when it comes to her institutions. We have a clear and three crisis-debted crisis, a refugee crisis, and we now have the exit of Great Britain from the EU, but with our membership, dear colleague Bulj, we are emancipated. We now have a chance of our interests in a smart, clear way of articulating and towards Serbia. What happened with Chapter 23 is that we have installed these mechanisms and will not be able to progress without these things being done so as not to come to an agreement between Croatia and Serbia on who they judge and who they are. With that there's one thought fellow Bull when you talk about their War Crimes Act, who's judging for the crimes of the Ovcara? A senior court in Belgrade. So this sovereignty of Croatia is already somehow defiled ten years ago when these processes started. That's it. These are complicated topics and there should be very responsible when we talk about who's guilty, who's not guilty of something, there we need to be very, very serious. And now one final thought, and as for our mechanisms in Croatia, our institutions, that's what Professor Lovrinović said nicely, we need to start using mechanisms that we have much more efficient, so let's say for example. We welcome this initiative by the Prime Minister's arrival in the Parliament, but we ask him to do one innovation, to do what other EU member states are doing, to come to the Croatian Parliament, to come to European Affairs committees before the meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council and the general job in Brussels are held before the European Council meetings are held in Brussels. So here we all contribute to strengthening our awareness that we are in this organization and that we have co-responsibility and that we must make maximum use of our membership for the Croatian people for all people living in Croatia, so that we, as Professor Lovrinović said, become more economically efficient. We are inside now we are somehow safe, but economically we are not effective enough. This year, we were cut off by Romania, and if we are not faster in development, Bulgaria's counterparts, whom we made fun of 10, 15, 20 years ago, will also be able to reach. Therefore, we must prevent this and therefore it is important to build mechanisms in Croatia, to build institutions, to develop institutions, to develop institutions of the Croatian Parliament, to make the Croatian Parliament stronger, to make MPs better equipped so that they can act not to condemn everything to cheap passwords, cheap populistism. So I repeat once again in the final thought, it would be nice if we could agree to have sessions. The discussions on the positions in Brussels do not have to be those discussions binding, these conclusions, but it is nice to hear this, before the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council, for general affairs and meetings of the European Council. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26481	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26482	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Kovac, you've spoken well of this. I just wanted to ask you, is it like the Minister of Foreign Affairs to you and to look at Europe if Europe was too late to help us, starting with the war when they acted like they didn't know what was going on, and then further into their negotiations, our negotiations with them, in fact, made our economies weak to the fullest extent possible. Unfortunately, our current prime ministers and everyone else have not shown enviable knowledge in the negotiations. You know that Bulgaria and Romania have both entered from us before, which were neither ready nor by chance, so another question arises why the EU when it is so good hastened BiH in the process of approaching Europe to stabilise this part of the world. Does the EU want us to make a good country? I personally hope so far the prime ministers, and now Prime Minister Plenkovic, I hope we can trust him. I personally have, and in all your performances so far, you're giving me confidence as a parliamentary representative to go one way, no matter who beat you on the other, and your public dating and here in the House is something that hasn't happened. I'm not in politics, I'm in economics, and I have to tell you, I'm a little optimistic now, I'm not a big optimist whether this Croatia will move forward. And here we go. I hope Europe needed a lot more for us than it has done so far. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26483	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. The answer of the esteemed colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26484	I thank you for this stimulant thought of my colleague, Music. Is it too late for the EU to admit us, so it's hard to say now. There were difficult conditions back then, all of us who followed it weren't all for us, to simulate things a little bit. There were those who were against us, that's how it was in life. Not everyone can love you both at school, and at school, there are teachers who love you, some don't love you, you know, and those who don't love you must and those who don't love you or don't like you to win them, and in the end we managed to do it. That was very difficult, but we did it. The EU... you said whether the EU will change us. So we are co-owners of the EU, we need to change the way we think. We remember when we were younger in that former Yugoslavia, so when people used to talk, they gave the Germans the Adriatic Sea. That thought must not exist in our Croatian brain. We are the ones who have to change, and now that we have joined the EU, we have a chance to do it. I say, we have cooperation mechanisms, we need to profile them, and we need to create some. BiH, the Croatian government, and before that, EU representatives and among them Mr Plenkovic have helped make HDZ BiH i.e. Members of the presidency then, the chairman of the Bureau, submitted a request for membership. The process has started, they will need a lot of help, not all of them are as carried out by this idea as Croats in BiH, the other two people are less obsessed with this idea, this project, we will have to work hard, we will do a lot of work to make the EU work in some way if you want to and force our colleagues in the EU to be equally enthusiastic when it comes to BiH starting EU integration. But now we have a Prime Minister who can say and speak at European Council meetings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26485	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Željko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26486	Dear counterpart Kovac, I think that we are all in agreement with everyone here that Croatia is not and must not be an EU salad and we are where we are, it is a real policy, with this are consensual young anarchists for... communists and Democrats, etc., sitting in the Assembly. But I'd say it's just real politics. We are also part of a collective security organisation and NATO which is a nuclear alliance. ...is 15 minutes away. But in a conversation recently with a Croatian military officer, recently a Turkish diplomat drank little and said this, says our strategic interests reach Karlovac. Do you remember Turkish Croatia? This is how I wonder how far Croatian strategic interests are? And I would appeal to the government to extract critical information, and BiH was recently in Odjak two thousand young people have moved out of Odjak. People leave their grandfathers behind. According to some unverified information, it's gone, sold people 18,000 properties in central Bosnia. That pace must be stopped. We don't have strategic depths, we have a country that... 650 meters wide. That's the first question. The second question is critical of the diaspora bridge, we have 350 thousand Croats in Germany alone. What about that bridge? ...brains, investments, etc. The last topic of the border, again incorrect information perhaps you know better than I do, has been found larger amounts of oil, gas perhaps Boka Kotarska, what about that border? I heard Montenegro moved the border. That's the key questions. As far as great Serbian imperialism is concerned, they have partners here in the Croatian Parliament who repeat their historical truth of Serbian lies, there are some heads and also have partners in NGOs that destroy this country and receive money from the Croatian budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26487	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. The answer of the esteemed colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26488	I am very pleased to reach out in some way to the silent agreement that much is in our hands. I repeat, we must build the mechanisms we have and be more efficient. You said Croats outside the Republic of Croatia they are dry gold, they should only be cleverly animated and move into it. The other day I had one meeting on that plan and in Vukovar, not everything goes overnight, it can't all go overnight. About BiH, what you said, Professor Lovrinovic, and that is already in the plan, I spoke with Parliament President and Bozo Ljubic, there is, that we will organise a debate in plenary, there is a Mr. Klisovic about it there is an agreement on BiH in the Croatian Parliament. I also accept the idea of fellow Lovrinovic doing the same thing in the EU. A lot is up to us, we can only change a lot if we organize well and if we're all motivated and we're not just waiting for someone else to do something for us. In BiH, you know how things are, that foreign forces are present, you mentioned Turkey and Russia, not everyone for the EU, but we have a chance to increase with our colleagues in the EU, strengthen awareness that the EU must be more present, that Croatia must be more present. Everyone can make a contribution in their own way to this, and we as Parliamentarians, the government as such, each citizen can do something just have to be motivated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26489	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Kovac, you said in your statement that students and students in Croatia do not know who Schultz is, Tajani you told Donald Tusk and you tied it to the EU identity crisis. But my opinion is that it is not the reason why students and students do not know who Tusk, Tajani or Schultz is the EU identity crisis but the crisis of the education system of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we need important curricula reform, and that's why it's important for the government to let the curricula reform go into the implementation of how it was made by experts, how it was done by the profession, without intervening and bringing it to a level of inrecognition. The second thing, you said, and I agree on that, and I support you, that the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs should come before the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council or before the General Affairs Council meeting in the Assembly, the committee responsible for presenting the views and that the Assembly may discuss and give its input further. As Minister, I'm afraid you haven't done that. ... One time, well, so now the right way to correct this mistake is to invite the Minister in writing each time before the Council's meeting to come to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and together with us you are a member of the Council for European Affairs, to put such pressure on or propose to the chairman, Domagoj Milosevic. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26491	I thank Mr. Klisovic. It's nice to see this agreement in the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Kovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26492	I really appreciate these kind letters, it's nice because it ennobles people to have in some way a consensus... I think Mr. Prime Minister and the Secretary of State also like it, but not only does the foreign minister come, he is occupied with other affairs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The secretary of state, the secretary of state, may not matter, or someone from an official who would do so, I think it would really help all of us in Croatia. And as far as the education system is concerned, it's not an educational system problem, but I said that elsewhere, we have indeed had a problem with the education system in Croatia for decades, I found one text, one note from the 27th century when a French officer was in Kalinovik as captain and wrote a report about his stay in the SHS army, the main headquarters of the French army, the Ministry of Defence and the military attaché... He wrote the following thing: "If the education system does not change in this country," then in the Kingdom of SHS "this country will never become a Western type country." Therefore, it is something that has been bothering us for decades and I am convinced that this Croatian government will start to reform education because it is the future of Croatia, the future of our children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26493	I thank my colleague Kovac for his reply. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26494	Comrade Kovac, you said there was an identity crisis in the European Union. Well, of course people are disappointed. Let's be honest that they are disappointed that in the pre-accession time of Croatia which has been difficult to enter, which had various conditions, it should have been fulfilled from what you mentioned to Serbia today we did not seek, we did not reveal chapter 23, well known because you were the foreign minister, that jurisdiction in our territory remained under the Republic of Serbia, literally the water brushes today, I will repeat once more to Serbia, Seselj's means helpers who called for slaughter, to conquer territories both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and it is a shame. Croatia had to meet the requirements, Slovenia has been doing wonders for Savudrija that we have not yet liquefied from it. Because of the economic belt, you know what it was like to vote in the House, so it had to pull back under pressure and we won't talk about the persecution of Croatian generals of Homeland War heroes who don't know the number of children in schools right now. They know our children in the education system who the heroes of Vukovar are? Make a text and you'll see. So we are losing our identity and we have not strategic national interests within the European Union protected by which Croatia pays well. We're paying for membership, but that's not how it was voted in this House. Then part of the people was skeptical, you know, that the Constitution was changing that it could go below 50% to the election. And it was not good, it was not transparent, it was not about the shortcomings of the European Union, about the loss of sovereignty. These are all the wrong Croatian policies because it is the citizen who decides. Then I didn't know what was good or what was bad and I was skeptical because I saw that unanimity was in the House, left and center and right at the vote. And I saw that this was not a real picture of a people who weren't exactly about to join the European Union because politics didn't well explain what it would lead us to. Young people today are interested in how much interest they have in Croatia, and we are in the European Union and there are far fewer members of the European Union. Why wasn't that fought out? Which is why the Germans today have interests in optical cables for setting up, we need to protect ourselves from making optical cables in Croatia. If we have strength and courage, it is a matter of Croatian politics and we need to talk about it in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26495	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26496	Dear Lord Bull, I am truly pleased that we have a high degree of consensus in these matters and it is important that we understand that we have worked hard, that we have given up a lot of things all these years to enter this European Union, that it must fill us with pride, give us the strength to change things now to the extent that it is possible to our benefit, absolutely, in this no one is stopping us. We can do this if we want, if there is any sense, if there is a will then it can be, I have no doubt that there is enough intelligence in the Croatian Government, in Croatia there is, only that mind must be well organized, there must be will and we will succeed. It doesn't go all night, nothing can go overnight, it needs to work hard. I remember Sarkozy when he was Minister of the Interior, he said, "If you want to make more money, you have to work harder." You can't work less and make less money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26497	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for his reply. With this, we've exhausted the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26498	Thank you. Chairman! It's an extraordinary honor to be able to speak here. Well, I would like to say that in memory of the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who was his vision of Croatia. Was his vision of Croatia such that Croatia would be again in the state union with Serbia for 20 and 15 years after his death, to share the same borders with it again, to sit again in the same parliament as the Croatian and Serbian presidents, to have the same currency with Serbia, to have laws in line with them, etc., etc. Was that the purpose of our first Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tudjman? And this goal, or return to the same state union with Serbia, is inevitable within the European Union. I personally believe that the European Union is in some way some kind of state union. I think most of them will agree with me. The majority will also agree that Serbia will eventually become part of it. And what's going on? You will say, yes, President Tudjman wanted such a Croatia that shares sovereignty with Serbia, etc., etc. Is that what President Tudjman wanted, ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ? I don't think so. The only difference between Yugoslavia and the European Union, you will say – is that we have the Croatian Parliament here – so there was also a Parliament of some kind in the Socialist Yugoslavia. But it was the main one in Belgrade. Today, the main one in Brussels is because the one in Brussels is making directives or laws that are binding on everyone and everyone has to obey. The difference between Croatia in Yugoslavia and Croatia in the European Union today is only that Croatia is managed from Brussels today, not Belgrade. If we look at the standard of average worker, you will see that he is much weaker today than he was in Yugoslavia. Workers today in Croatia in Konzum, in Konzum, Konstruktor, in Bila or in some construction company other or in the factory Željezari Sisak, in fact it has failed like all thousands of other jobs, or workers in the INA Refinery can only dream of getting an apartment from their company, dreaming of building cottages at sea, dreaming of inflation eating their loans, etc. So the overall achievement of ours in these let's say 25 years of our independence is that we gave up our independence, that we share sovereignty and independence, etc. And when I pointed out that problem, or that fact, my colleague Plenkovic attacked me, called me for demagogy, that just as HDZ is now performing this kind of Croatia, means this is the kind of relationship Croatia has with the European Union that's exactly what Franjo Tudjman wanted and said that the primary relative task of this government is to fight against the populists and the demagogues and I don't know what other titles he said, like me and my colleague Bunjca. However, I think that Mr. Plenkovic, or our prime minister, should be the main fight against poverty, the war against social inequality, the war against people sleeping on trams, the war against that 200 wealthy families usurped the entire country and that the children of tycoon who stole Croatia during the HDZ era to be scattered with money while another Croatia freezes in rows before the soup kitchen. Unfortunately, this kind of war, the war against leaving the young people of our country who, in the last year alone under the HDZ, apparently went away 82 thousand, does not intend to lead that kind of war on the HDZ. I wish you'd said, I here with a pay phone announce war on unemployment, war on poverty, war on the escape of young people from the country, war on real estate, war on VAT of 25%, not that kind of war that Mr. Plenkovic or the European Commission are planning to lead. Then even a colleague, Boric, who tried in a moving way to claim that Ivan Pernar, a man who founded the Living Wall, a man who has the support of his own membership and his own voters, is the 5th most popular person currently in Croatia, who has 130 thousand fans on Facebook, that he does not have the legitimacy to represent and lead the Living Wall, but is a colleague from HDZ who will decide, who will suggest which assembly should choose the Leader of the Living Wall. And, of course, in HDZ, we saw what elections are like, how they are held, how many candidates there are for HDZ presidents, how the HDZ finances its campaign, etc. Mr. Boris says the institutions should deal with me and that the minority should go to prison, not people like Mr. Ivo Sanader, their former party president or Mr. Karamark, who recently sued me, dear colleague Mira Bulj. So Croatia doesn't need to indicate war on turned criminals, they don't need And you're wasting my time, sir. [[/Upadica Brkić: Dear colleague Pernar, I would kindly ask you to stick to the topic we are discussing. And as you know, you have a microphone in front of you.]] Please stop the time only Thank you. [[/Upadica Brkić: There is a sound in the Croatian Parliament and you do not have to raise your voice. Everyone can hear you very well. Thank you very much.]] Anyway, he's trying to create an illusion that I'm a criminal here, that I'm the one here who's guilty of people detesting parliamentary agents. But believe me, Mr. Boric, a lot of people tell me on the street I finally have my parliamentary representative. Those representatives who owe this country and sell out, who share the sovereignty of our country, who have issued all the possible national interests they could, these are the same advocates who teach me a lesson about patriotism, who tell me that I am not big enough probably a Croat or that I am a traitor. And it's not the traitor Ivo Sanader, it's not the traitors who sell INU, HEP, etc., but of course the other one couldn't be expected. I wish Mr Plenkovic had said the following words here today at the pay phone, telling the war to the people or judges of the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court who are making judgments against the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the verdicts that have caused us to lose billions, not millions, billions. However, the replacement of the Constitutional Court judges who freed former HDZ President Ivo Sanader is unlikely to be welcomed, and no verdict against these people will pass. And they won't hear from the European Commission any criticism of those decisions of our Constitutional Court. No, it suits them because the European Union is in the service of large capital and then I am the only one who is fighting for the sovereignty of our country or that this sovereignty is not shared with other countries, that we have our borders and not to be again, that we should remove the borders at the end and towards Serbia and that we have the same currency with Serbia and that in the same parliament we are sitting with them, I am called a traitor. Why? Because I took a picture with Bosca Obradovic. There, act of betrayal, I took pictures. And with whom all of Colinda was photographed, we're not going to talk about who she took the picture with, it doesn't matter. But gentlemen and ladies, it doesn't matter who he took the picture with, whether someone stands or sits in an anthem because those people like Eve Sanader, you were the first to stick to the right hand of the heart and swear to Croatia, in religion, in patriotism, and even in the fight against corruption and crime and to tell war to those who have ruined this country with organized crime. However, of course the most organised and largest criminal organisation, it is under the protection of all institutions, the Supreme Court has knocked down the verdict against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26499	I thank Mr. Pernar. We have a few replicas. Dear fellow Professor Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26500	So it has been said long ago that the most uneducated people are the strongest in their criticisms because they have neither evidence of what they say nor are sensitive to counterarguments. This fellow Pernar, what you're saying, wouldn't eat that dog with the butter, so he wouldn't actually eat what you've been saying for months, and that's 30 of the same sentences that you've been doing every day, and there's no logic, no consistency, no meaning, no argument in that. So it's actually a question of whether this kind of discussion of yours should be reacted to or how much it makes sense for a man to do so, not to get down into that mud and remain muddy arguing with you. As far as Croatia's sovereignty is concerned, it is one process that in Europe there were 20 countries 100 years ago, now there are 60 when we talk about the Council of Europe, in the United Nations almost 200 countries, thus disappearing empires, creating national states and then it is a question of who will simply define the rights of international order and these relations. Therefore, Croatia should be sovereign, should be independent but should also be participated in these bodies where the rules of the game are defined and laws passed that will define the international order and which everyone should treat. And what you're saying has nothing to do with anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26501	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miroslav Tudjman, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26502	Thank you, Chairman. On the case, I ran into an article that said, "Franjo Tudjman refused to join the European Union and $5 billion in 1990," he said, "Franjo Tudjman refused to join the European Union in 1990 and $5 billion as much as she then offered to the united European peoples in Yugoslavia in exchange for peace and political agreement." I can't give up on any billion ideas that feed the entire Croatian people, "To restore the Croatian state, that's primarily for me," the first Croatian president said. Tudjman's words were conveyed by Kiro Gligorov in the documentary "Tuđman and Milosevic, the agreed war". What's this about? The point is that Franjo Tudjman was a supporter of Europe in terms of the unity of the sovereign nations of the people but not as some mega-Yugoslavia, the great Yugoslavia in which we make 1%, we share sovereignty with everyone and we actually lose all the elements of our statehood, we lose our currency, we lose our borders, we have a common army, we have common laws, we have minority common police. And finally, where it is literally heading towards federal Europe, a kind of federal Europe, that does not loose the confederacy in which our consent is needed to bring the directives of the European Union, but rather the directives of the European Union are being adopted and then imposed on us. Kosovo, in the time of Yugoslavia, and all decisions taken in Belgrade, had to be approved by the Kosovo Assembly. Imagine that paradox. And we in Croatia mean decisions are made in Brussels without our consent, we have a lower degree of autonomy in the European Union than Kosovo once did in Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26503	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected counterpart, Glasovic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26504	Dear Mr. Pernar, like this. There is one proverb about the army that says this: “It says best in the animal kingdom of the parrot, and the worst is flying.” You are not a historian, but what you have said has made me a little disappointed. I know you've moved on now to think... Because now you've gone to that cult. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know, but you're not a historian. I'd like to say one thing first. Why do you keep defending the biggest... in the history of Southeast Europe? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was better in the former South, it's one of those mantras. It lived so well that the country committed etocide against the Hungarians, Germans, the most valuable minority killed 66,000 women, children, old men, tens of thousands of prisoners of war, wiped out the Croatian people, changed their genetic code. It is the current state of the Croatian state. Not just that. She ran a confiscation, nationalization, and we didn't solve it today. That's why 7% of the land was introduced into the cadastre. This is Croatia's current problem. We can say 25 years with UDBA, and you're saying who UDBA is free to speak. What's the problem, why it went away, it lived so well that it left that country a million and a half people from the 1960s, seventy-two. It's economic immigration. What about political immigration? You guys have a lot of fans on your face, okay, great. And who are you forgetting? You have 350 thousand Croats only in Germany who do not have double citizenship, who have been completely removed from that Trojan horse that has ruled here since the age of forty-five. You have a man, the head of the Belarusian OZNA who ripped people's fingernails there, lives in Bjelovar, hundreds of mass graves and today he sells books and that's the Croatian state. You've got some kind of Croslavia. Don't talk about academic lustration. This is academic lustration. He says you learn a little history, but you have completely removed Croats outside the country who have given millions of dollars to defend this country. And what did they give you forgive the expression "assies" and... they only spent Croatian money, and you call whoever you want, and first you learn something about Croatian history. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26505	I thank my colleague Glasnović for the replica. Replication response, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26506	I thank Mr. Glasnovic for warning some of the injustices that took place in the time of Yugoslavia. But the biggest injustice to the Croatian people occurred in Bleiburg when thousands of Croats were killed [[Intruding Glasnović: No matter what Bleiburg, come on...]] Sir, can I? .../Intruding Brkic: A colleague, please, Mr. Glasnović, you had the right to speak. [[Intruding Glasnović: Since '45. in the old Yugoslavia...]] Now allow Mr. Pernar to answer you and refrain from inappropriate words in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Pernar. Thank you. I don't have a problem with Mr. Glasnovic's words, just let him apply for an individual debate, let him talk for 10 minutes, it's not a problem. [[Invader Brkić: We will extend your time.]] You can apply for an individual debate, not in a debate on behalf of the club and you can talk for 10 minutes on any topic. [[Intruding Glasnović: I can't, I'm independent.]] There you go. Thank you. I was going to say that there was a mass massacre in Bleiburg. Tens of thousands of Croats were killed back in '45. However, the Croatian state never called the massacre genocide even though it was directed against the Croatian people. And why did the HDZ or the Croatian state not call it genocide, and more people were killed than in Srebrenica. Because those who conducted that genocide were these same communist personnel, the leaders of the UDBA, OZNA, KOS and Tito's generals who actually took over the power of the 1990s but changed their shirts. And to protect these crimes, to abolize the communist regime did not want to call those in Bleiburg the real name that it was genocide. But that's why the massacre of 700 people, 1,000, 2,000 people in Bleiburg, shout genocide, genocide. Why? Because the genocide, or because the massacre in Vukovar was not committed by Croatian communists among others, and the slaughter in, or genocide in Bleiburg was committed by Croatian communists over their own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26507	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Pernar. The next call came the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26508	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would only react to one claim from my colleague, Pernar, who I think is simply harmful if it continues to repeat itself because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is the claim that we will meet again with Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the new Yugoslavia. So that's absolutely incorrect. It is our interest that our two neighbours, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, join the EU, become organised countries with democratic standards, not to be as they are now. So they're our neighbors, we can't change that. And it is our interest as the Republic of Croatia that they be arranged, to join the EU, to accept European standards. And to us, colleague Pernar, you haven't been here in years when we were under pressure to enter the EU by making a number of laws, moving the borders of democratic standards, introducing certain democratic institutes into the Republic of Croatia and making Croatia's society better. So that will apply to our two neighbouring countries now, and therefore it's a very dangerous story for you to talk about us entering new Yugoslavia with them. It is our interest that they enter into an association called the EU and that before they enter, of course, they do all that we and all the countries of others who have entered that association and become truly well-organised countries with a high degree of democracy, certain democratic standards because it is a guarantee and our peace in the Republic of Croatia and a better quality of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26509	I would like to thank you for the replica of the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs. Milanka Opačić. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26510	Mrs Opacic says the EU cannot be compared to Yugoslavia. However, I ask you, Mrs Opačić, if tomorrow we will share the same currency with Serbia and Bosnia again, the same external border, the same common parliament that has been commanded by ours, I repeat not as in the time of Yugoslavia when Kosovo had autonomy and when all let's say legal norms that were valid throughout Yugoslavia had to first be approved by the Autonomous province of Kosovo by the meaning of the 74th Constitution when the degree of that autonomy was raised to the level of the Republic, we, Croatia today I repeat to you will have in that new Yugoslavia called the European Union. has a lower degree of autonomy than Kosovo once did in Yugoslavia. Same currency, same army, common police, common borders, common constitution, common laws, joint parliament. So tell me, dear lady, isn't that living in the same country again? Is it not the aim of the European Union to create a Federation? Don't they say Van Rompy, Tusk and other Euroburocates exactly that this is the European Union's goal of gradually depriveing sovereignty step by step say on the English step by step? And you'll tell Pernar he's a demagogue. But believe me, Stjepan Radic and Dr. Ante Starcevic as well as Dr. Ivan Pernar, doctor of law, who was assassinated in the National Assembly of Yugoslavia. If they were alive today, and if they were here with us, they'd be standing here with me, not there with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26511	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. Next up for the replica, a distinguished colleague of professors came forward. Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26512	I thank my colleagues and fellow MPs. I will begin my replica with the words of a 10th - century philosopher who said in one reply: “There are four kinds of people. It's those who know and know that they know they're scholars, follow them. The other kind are the ones who know and don't know that they know they're asleep, wake them up. The third kind are those who do not know and know that they do not know, they seek to teach them. And the fourth kind is people who don't know and don't know that they don't know, they're ignorant and stay away from them." So I doubted whether to respond to such discussions. However, several incorrect allegations need to be corrected. First, the European Union is not a state union, but a community of states, if that is the case. So that's the definition of confederation. The third thing, the strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia in achieving independence and the goals that President Tudjman's first president of Croatia has declared was Croatia's involvement in the European Union and NATO. The third thing, so Croatia as the sovereign state that has become it and which will remain needs allies and partners. I ask all those who are against Croatia's membership in the European Union, do they want perhaps Croatia to join communities such as the community of independent states where Russia, Uzbekistan, Turkanistan, Tajekistan or Boldia or is a natural environment for Croatia's Islamic conference of communities of countries? Therefore, the European Union is a framework in which Croatia maintains its sovereignty. It should not be forgotten that in the process of Croatia's association with the European Union Croatia has become a better country and in environmental protection, and protection of labour rights, and in the protection of social rights, if you will and in the fight against corruption. So, Croatia actually has no reason to regret being a member of the European Union. And the very fact that both our neighbours and those countries that are beyond the European Union than Croatia wants membership in the European Union say that this community is, in fact, still whatever crisis it is in, and in search of its identity, a magnet for countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26513	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26514	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would ask you to, here is the injured Rules of Procedure of several articles but we can start from Article 14, then on, these are the general provisions of the Rules of Procedure that the time of a particular earl here. Here this morning after Prime Minister Plenkovic announced the fight against populism that I have nothing against, it is his right to do so, encouraged his MPs who have otherwise not done so until yesterday to start other MPs, in this case Mr Pernar to insult, compare with the proverbs of the past. Today we listen to the third member of the HDZ law encouraged to say to Mr Plenkovic because that's how they learned in HDZ when the president says, shows you there your flag is all headed in one direction. So now they've already started to compare Pernar to this or the history of the way he talks, which he argues. Look, a man can talk if he wants anything he wants, even if it's the biggest nonsense. But you have no right to insult him. I'm asking you to run this session that way. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] And you tell your HDZ colleagues not to do it anymore. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26515	Mr. Maras, you have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure because Article 14 doesn't speak at all about it. You could have talked about article 232 as far as the agenda was concerned. And these general provisions were fucked up so I wouldn't tell you what. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26516	Thank you, Your Honor. So you see, Yugoslavia was, according to the 74th Constitution, a community of states or republics, and that was also the basis for our secession from that state community. But for example, I tried to explain to you that the autonomy of the then Autonomous province within Yugoslavia was greater than Croatia's within the European Union. If the European Union were a confederate and not a Federation, then the first Croatian Parliament should adopt certain legislation, certain laws and all other parliaments, and only then, in Brussels, the European Parliament could declare it common, and not vice versa, that the elite of a few representatives from large countries should pass laws, and then all small states must apply this wish-free. However, Mr Ljubic and I will only say that unlike HDZ President Dragan Covic, my family has no villa of 5 million marks in Mostar, in the area of the famous Bare settlement as Beverly Hills, nor has my family changed the stream of the river to pass their house or my house. And what HDZ has done for its benefit in the BIH and what is happening to the Croatian people in BIH is not an honor to you, but to your shame, and from your stories and what is the worst of that wealth you have run on stories about the threat of the Croatian people and its dissuasion which makes this abomination even bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26517	I thank my colleague Pernar. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Goran Aleksic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26518	Thank you. Dear Vice President! Comrade Pernar, I must react based on your negative descriptions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is an honorary institution, the Constitutional Court has made three very important decisions in the last year. First, he made a decision not to suspend the Law on Conversion, then made a decision that the infringement provisions against the banks were constitutionally based on which banks could be prosecuted and on which they could be charged from 9 to 25 billion kuna of criminal penalties. And finally, the Constitutional Court abolished part of the Supreme Court's audit relating to the currency clause in Swiss loans, so-called. the Swiss and as regards the unfairness of the contractual provisions with Sberbank, the Constitutional Court has ordered the Supreme Court to re-evaluate the unfairness of the currency clause CHF and to review the provisions on the unfairness of the interest rate change for Sberbank. So, the Constitutional Court is a correction of the judicial authority, the judicial authorities and as such a correction he has made in the last year three very important decisions and therefore I am obliged and obliged to defend their dignity here because there is no one else but me because I know and I am directed into their work. So you're wrong about the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26519	The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26520	Dear counterpart Alexic, the two verdicts were very crucial to political life. One was that HDZ was convicted as a criminal organised group headed by its president, Ivo Sanader. At that time, HDZ members, cashiers, cashiers, etc. witnessed. in court. Not only did they give statements condemning the withdrawal of money from public companies, financing HDZ campaigns, etc. They've already regretted it through the media. However, the Supreme Court ruins the HDZ verdict by power, then comes to a crucial point where the Constitutional Court rules against Ivo Sanader. It is the only one who benefits from bringing down the powerful verdict of Ivo Sanader, except Eve Sanader and HDZ, is the Hungarian MOL. They were the ones who benefited from that verdict. And the most shocking of all was when the arbitration court ruled against us, the former HDZ president who held his right hand to his heart and stood while the anthem was intonated, he welcomed the verdict, he said this verdict was the correct verdict. And I want to say that it is the Constitutional Court that has led Croatia to the position that it cannot prove that there have been corrupt actions in the case of the transfer of management rights over INO which will eventually lead to the closure of the Sisak refinery, etc., and that same Constitutional Court considers that the application of the currency clause is permitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26521	Comrade Pernar, I have indeed left you completely from the topic and I am asking both you and everyone else to stick to the subject. What you're saying has nothing to do with the subject that we've been discussing all afternoon. We'd end up replicating the presentation of Agent Pernar. The last will be a debate between the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj, individually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26522	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister with his associates! Indeed, this is a positive report that you give to the Croatian Parliament and also to the public to see the views of the Government and the messages from the European Parliament and, of course, parliamentary representatives, and therefore every parliamentary representative knows more than we do Europeans because you have long been in diplomacy and you have been elected to the European Parliament that every parliamentary representative has the right to say certain things, and this is again a product before entering the European Union which was not a real debate, i.e. relevant discussions on why to enter the European Union, what to change and what is good. This is the consequence of the elections themselves before the entry of the European Union which, you know, changed the Constitution itself so that 50% less than one voter can come out. 50 plus 1, it was enough to get two people out for European. So there was one pressure on people and of course people didn't feel the best and it was unanimously accepted. And now this reflection is coming back for the people expected under those desert promises when we enter the European Union that they will sow stars over Croatia. There was a big fan, but I think it would have been a lot better if it had been historically done, more realistic, that through the media and through the public appearances of politicians and those who were skeptical of entering the European Union and those who were in order to argue in debates. Unfortunately, however, it was not the same as in this Croatian House, which unanimously adopted an amendment to the Constitution on entering the European Union and, of course, the people did not accept it well. This report of yours in principle should in principle be that and in the future motivates you as a leader to present what is happening... The European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what are the citizens interested in? Citizens are interested in what we have from our EU membership fee, I think half a billion euros. In four years, it's one Peles Bridge. We pay, so in four years, the Peles Bridge. Our citizens, so in Croatia, what about capital projects? You mentioned a European Union capital project? What about the capital project of the Pelješko Bridge, which is very important for the merger of the Croatian two regions, the southern area which is isolated, where we must cross twice the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, another state to come to part of Croatia. What about Croatian agriculture since we were in the EU or what about Croatian agriculture in 2016? How does a peasant look at that? Seljak sees that there were incentives from the EU through various funds, but they did not come into their pockets, but through the ministry ended up in the pockets of certain tycoons privileged to Croatian society, which destroyed Croatian peasants and Croatian production. What about health care? Is healthcare better than when we are in the EU or in 2016 than in 2017? This does not interest citizens in joining the EU. What about the currency, i.e. What about interest? Is the same bank that owns Italy, example or Hungary, the same interest from that bank in Hungary? No, it's much smaller, 2% while in Croatia it's 7, 8, 10%. So we are in the same community, in the EU and the Croatian people pay more interest. What about undeveloped areas? Did the entry of Croatia and the demographic picture, did we or in 2016 achieve any effects on retention and greater mentality in this area? Compared to 2014 in 2015, 35,000 inhabitants in Croatia are reduced by growth. So only 17,000 were born less than in 2015, compared to 2014. These are policies that interest Croatian citizens. But the most painful thing is that it's the judiciary. How is it possible that we are together with Hungary in the EU without Hernadi responding to the Croatian judiciary? To me as a parliamentary representative, a man who knows less about diplomacy than you and many here who have been in politics so far. I don't understand why Hernadi, if we are in the EU, isn't responding to the Croatian judiciary if we are the same? We didn't. Their policy has made it clear that even from Interpol's drive, Hernadi is being taken down, and we know about the video from lobbying through various lobbyists and through certain people what he did about the INA that was taken by the MOL hostile. He's hostilely taken over MOL INA. What about the industry since we've been in the EU? It has been said that there is no industry, that no selective incentive can be used. The car industry in Germany was encouraged selectively when there was a crisis in the EU, while along with Croatian squares it could not go to the Split square. Which is why it couldn't be stimulated and why ours are now the result is that our experts are welders from the most ordinary worker to the most professional in shipbuilding went out. So, Croatian citizens are mostly interested in young people who leave what the effects of the EU are, which is Croatia in the EU which pays half a billion euros per year for membership, what are the effects on Croatia in 2016. The fact is that we had a government declared by colleagues from the SDP that was the worst in history, that we had the best results. And when the government was gone, we had even better results. And I repeat once again the biggest cancer wound is the judiciary. What about corruption? These are issues that citizens are interested in, and most importantly, this demographic picture of young people leaving us and simply leaving empty spaces, and today in this refugee crisis, at a time when we have epic proportions of people's migration, where billions of people want to come to the EU for various reasons and for war-related areas in North Africa, and in Asia, they want to come to these areas. We are interested in protecting the national interests of the Croatian citizen, optical cables, setting up optical cables in Croatia. Yes, the Germans have helped us very much, thank them for joining the EU, but why would they build it in us, why wouldn't it be Croatian property and why wouldn't we build it? I'm sure we have competent people. Are we going to fight to be owners and not now mention what happened to privatising telecommunications that started partner one and ended partner two? Or with INA started partner, the White Fields started partner two and ended partner one. This all happened at a time when EU accession and, of course, citizens were bitter. But it's not good to go after people who have different attitudes. In my opinion, it is not, because it is necessary to discuss and debate facts regardless of the SDP, HDZ, the Living Wall or any other political option. But our key problem, Mr. Prime Minister, is the Croatian judiciary, which is the European Union's attitude towards the Croatian judiciary in the Hernadia case. It is not clear to me at all, can you explain why he did not come because we are on the EU's bench for the hostile takeover of the INA. And these are the facts since we joined the EU, since it was announced since 2000 that we don't need borders then 25 plus 1 of Racan's shares were handed over to the INA. That's how it happened with telecommunications while an APB for General Ante Gotovina was being called, so the Telecommunications Majority Package was being sold to the Germans. It's a lot less millions and billions than it's worth. I'd like to remind you once again what I asked you this morning. Please stop chapter 23 of the Republic of Serbia. No matter what you say, the fact is they have jurisdiction over Croatian defenders, legal jurisdiction. I repeat, there are heads of the state of Seselj's assistants, Chetniks Vukic and Nikolic. Stop it. Until that changes, don't let them in chapter 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26523	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. He is the first to be respected representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26524	Thank you. Dear Vice President! Comrade Bulj, you mentioned I can say that exactly the European Union provides the opportunity to solve these problems that we have with banks, that I am just grateful that we are in the Union. If we weren't in the Union, we wouldn't be able to solve these problems at all, I have this feeling, even though our laws are entirely on our side. However, on our side, Directive 93/13, on our side, is the EU Court ruling that the contractual provisions, other than having to be grammatically clear, must be such as to suggest that the consequences of the consumer's credit bargaining and interest are high above all because of ourselves. It's our fault that the interest rates are high and they're high because they're illegal because banks manipulate interest rates, the banks themselves, first of all, increased interest rates, and then after the law was passed, which required them to agree on changes in the parameters at interest rates and fixed margins again on their own and non-contractual terms. And in 200,000 loans today, banks are using illegally defined interest parameters. If these interest parameters were returned to the initial amounts, they would be what they should be at the time of each loan, interest rates would fall to 200,000 credits by 2 to 4 percentage points. I have proposed to you as the Mosta and HDZ two laws, and one of these laws concerns interest margins, and you will have the opportunity to resolve the illegal operations of banks in accordance with EU law and EU directives and to reduce interest rates legally, legally and legally to one to four percent in 200 thousand loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26525	Thank you very much. They'll answer, Comrade Bull. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26526	Well, the theme is, I mean, interest. Mr. Alexic, really your work. and the Franak Association has led to the shift of certain, injustice has been corrected but the fact is that we have in Croatia today, which is the problem you know better, the bank that is in Hungary, owns the same interest in Croatia and Hungary. Same bank, we're like in the European Union. It means there's still corruption here. The judiciary, the Constitutional Court that you have commended, I have no right to praise or shame, but I can say that certain things do not work well or justly. It's in the event of a verdict on INA MOL to former Prime Minister Sanader. Personally, it means for your proposal that you said if it's legal I'll never mind and in Croatia it's not possible. in Austria to pass the reiffen loans of a savings credit cooperative as they can in Croatia, and that is a fact. Who protects Croatia's interests in the European Union? Do we even have people who are bold or that we brought in this House what are the strategic national interests of the Republic of Croatia that we will protect, we do not have that document. Well, we don't have a national security and defence document from 2000 yet. It means politics isn't going well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26527	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26528	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just as fellow Bull, we should always look at the data. I am also skeptical and critical when some processes are at stake in the European Union, but look, we are profiteers, we profit. Last year will be 15 years, two years ago we were in plus, 226 million euros we were in plus. Croatia has received more than it has paid. There are countries that are more successful than us, let's say Slovenia was in plus 580m euros, so there are better mechanisms than we are. And these big countries, the successful countries are down. Look, the United Kingdom paid 11.5 billion euros more, Germany 14.3 billion euros more than they got. Therefore, they too can complain. In this case Croatia is profiting, making less payments than it gets. Therefore, for us, the European Union is currently profitable and must remain that way, and it will not stay long because we will not be forever "on the pipe" of the larger successful countries. Another thought you heard from your colleague, Alexic, a citizen's society, everyone can engage and can do something good for this society, and so can counterpart Alexic with the Association "Franak". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26529	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26530	My colleague, you have now listed countries that are so much more developed than the Republic of Croatia, but I am interested in the effects. You're from your constituency, so come on, you haven't been after the election, I know you've been going to those places, so you'll see that they're empty places. It hurts me here, it hurts me that we didn't stop to protect the better part of Croatia's constitutional obligation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that would be the goal of Bosnia and Herzegovina entering the European Union and protecting it. We have empty spaces in the hinterland of Dalmatia where the narrow border is, the places that are sold and now people are some who have defended Herceg Bosnia, Croatian generals in The Hague, left to themselves for a long time. They didn't even fund the printing of documented books. The Croatian people are not just Zagreb. Go and see if you can hear children crying like you used to hear, you heard 38 thousand fewer people and 17 thousand were born less in 2014 compared to 2015. In 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 of 18 December 2015 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the People are leaving. Those are the results. They're running away young. The Slavs are on the run. How much milk production have we had since we were in the European Union? We've invested 5 billion kuna in the production of milk, milk production, and we have 64 thousand dairy producers, we've come to 4 grand. Where does that money go, then? To tycoons. Ask the Minister of Agriculture of the former, and you will see whom the money went to, and these Slavons are gone. It's easy for us to buy cows and cattle. Who's going to watch her in Slavonia? We lose, we lose territory, we become burned ground. That's true. And that story about Germany 10 million euros more or less is fog. It is fog because the real situation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is not as you say Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26531	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26532	Thank you. Well, I'd just like to say to my esteemed colleague Bull, thank you for stopping in defense of the right to speak, and I just want to say to him that the late president, Francis Tudjman, his wartime commander, would certainly not support the idea of a false democracy in which turnout is not crucial and crucial in a referendum that Croatia joins the state union with some other countries. I repeat, the referendum to which gentlemen from the HDZ are constantly called at the will of the people is controversial because that three people came out on it...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26533	.../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Pernar, I take you.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26534	And if only only two were for...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26535	.../Intruder Reiner: I need to draw your attention that you are not talking about the subject again. The theme is not a referendum that happened a few.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26536	And I'm sorry, what are you taking my time for? Which is why every time I talk...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26537	.../Intruder Reiner: I warn you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26538	Sir, stop the clock. You're talking about your monologues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26539	.../Intruder Reiner: I warn you to talk about the topic./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26540	And the man there lets time go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26541	.../Intruder Reiner: I warn you a second time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26542	Please ask your colleagues from the professional service and that...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26543	.../Intruder Reiner: And I take away your word./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26544	Who insults me and calls me crazy...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26545	.../Intruder Reiner: I take away your word./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26546	And you keep taking away my word and that's your HDZ policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26547	.../Intruder Reiner: No non-stop. I'm asking you to leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26548	Thank you. I don't need to talk any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26549	Please leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26550	Here you go. Anything for you, anything for you, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26551	Comrade Bull, come in if you'd like to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26552	I don't think it's good to rape democracy. And I really believe that at that time, I am sorry that Mr Pernar came out, that at that time Parliament unanimously changed the Constitution in the last year before the election to no longer be 50% of the vote needed but there were enough two people and of course there was a revolution in the people and that at that time it was best presented for which to enter the European Union, which is less and why not. And that's how people would certainly judge the Croatian people better then. However, it was as violent as I said, and of course we now have a reflection. At this point, however, the most important thing in Croatia is that in the Homeland War we fought for it, I believe that we have strategic national interests in the framework and the European Union that we must fight for these strategic national interests and protect Croatia from all possible blows, and particularly the high-levels that took place in the event of privatisation, in the case of a preliminary settlement. There was a colleague here, I apologize to those who weren't, who were robbing the unseen proportions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26553	Thank you. That's what we're done with the individual debates. And now the word will be taken on behalf of the promoter, the honourable Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26554	Thank you very much, Vice President Reiner. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Here is my summary after more than 5 hours of debate today on the report on the work of the European Council in 2016 is essentially very simple. It was a good decision to discuss these topics. It is necessary for the Croatian public. It is necessary for the sensitisation and parliamentary representatives to discuss key topics on the European Council. By usual practice, of course, the content of this debate is always evaluating. This has also become a debate on Croatia's membership of the European Union, and on the referendum, and on Serbia, and on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and on the United States, and on privatisation, and on the fight against corruption and on a number of topics that are not necessarily related to the topic of what is the agenda of the European Council. But it's all normal, it's all natural, it's all democracy. However, the aim of these topics is that I hope, through 4 years in Croatia, everyone knows why we are in the European Union, which is the European Union, which is its institutions, which are its policies, what is its budget, what is the role of Croatia as members. I, unlike many actors of this debate, who now ex post question our membership, procedure, referendum, I have participated in this debate for 25, 26 years, since the 20th year I have been able to say through NGOs, student organisations, practices, work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, work in Croatian diplomacy, optics Brussels, Paris, the optics of the secretary of state, the implementation of campaigns for referendum, work in the European Parliament, work in the Croatian Parliament and now as Prime Minister. Almost no frog, no bird's perspective I haven't seen in this subject. And I take the right to know something about this subject, something I know, something it does, something very rational on the basis of knowledge I do something out of conviction, I do it out of conviction and what was mentioned many times about how great a privilege it is to be part of that generation of Croats who enjoy their country, in their independence and in its international positioning. It's all the same connected activity of all of us here. Someone doesn't have to be in love with the legal gain of the European Union, he doesn't have to be in love with a European project, but he needs to see realistically where we as a country today are and we're a member of that European Union for three and a half years. I agree with those who say we can do a thorough analysis which is good, which is not good, which can be better. I'm sure it can. It takes some time. We also did analyses before we joined the European Union. Many of you who now say why something was one way or another before the referendum I must admit I do not remember any of these actors ahead of the referendum but nowhere but I was the only active Croatian politician who did not hesitate to go into the debate you know who in the Croatian Journalist Society in 2011, with Nigel Farage representative in the European Parliament, the man who first came to Croatia then and came to us to prove that this is essentially a bad goal, that we do not have to enter the European Union, that this is not good. This same Farage has received enormous political space from Cameron's mistake in organising a referendum and has now become a major actor who decides on global issues. We didn't make that mistake. The referendum was legitimate, first of all, and it was legal, and it was constitutional. The constitutional changes we made ahead of membership in the European Union were numerous. Some of them were necessary, necessary, there were some that I disagree with today, we limited the democratic representation of Croats outside Croatia to three fixed representatives. I am against it, I do not see that we have done with this a service in terms of the thesis between the unity of the country and the evicted Croatia and the encouragement of our people to vote in the elections of those living outside Croatia. Technology will advance, there is no dilemma that in the future it will be able to vote both by letter and electronically. There will be a way for it to be, then the participation of our citizens from abroad will be greater. But what is important and what I want to stress today is when we talk about debate and dialogue with political opponents, opponents of different goals and ambitions, I will always advocate what I believe in and try to beat a political opponent in the elections. This is the kind of reasoned culture of dialogue and debate I think we have already held in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. I will do so both during this term and as party leader and as Prime Minister. And the European values and our role in the European process will always defend the argumentant against demagogy, against incorrect information, against the fabrication of topics, the fabrication of conclusions that today, the communication time where all very lapidarians receive news and few of them have time to read a little deeper or go below the surface leave a mark in perception. That's why this debate is good, so over the next few years, we're going to prove who's telling the right information, who's behind them and who's telling the wrong information. And this kind of political pedagogy as the French often say is very useful for Croatian society and our democratic dialogue and also for the respect of the Croatian Parliament as institutions and its roles in this process. The parliamentary committees have important competences and important roles in individual European Union policies and communication with the executive authorities, but do not have the media attention such as the session of the plenary Croatian Parliament. And that is why we can use both forms of cooperation and forms of dialogue both before and after different sessions of European institutions where we advocate our views, and also those reports that are on our own initiative on the agenda of the European Parliament, as some MPs here have said. What I want to point out, so the European Council only meets a few times a year, it is not the Government of the European Union, it is a co-legislator together with the European Parliament if we already compromise and analogy watch who the Government is, then it is the European Commission. And that's just as important to know, and it can be understood how important it is to interpret and explain what a European project is and what its institutions are, something that may seem to be an alphabet and not everyone is. And that's what to say. What I want to say as priorities in the future in the work of the European Council, we can freely say is faced with the kind of challenges that he has not yet had, negotiations should be organised on the coming out of a large member, a member who is a permanent member of the Security Council, who, with France, has the greatest allocations for European defence. The Union with and without the United Kingdom won't be the same, and that requires a lot of thinking, a lot of analysis, a lot of adjustment, and in a budgetary sense, and it will feel that way. Make sure that a dozen of the most developed members finance 80% of the European budget. It will have its consequences for us too. However, when it comes to the benefits of membership I think they are multiple, they are multiple in terms of belonging to European values, they are multiple in strengthening the legal system with all the deficits and imperfections that we have in our legal system. I am convinced that he is much better than he was before 2013 and he is certainly much better than some MPs evoked the times before 1989 or 1990. Sometimes a man gets the impression he's watching that '78 show. which was called "The Full Couple" when he listens to someone's debate in this Croatian High House, that's cute, that's a joke. But we are here in 2017 with responsibility for the future, for building consensus on strategic topics, which is why we are conducting this dialogue, which is why I found it almost more lively today than yesterday at the current morning. That is why I said if someone has a quality, better, more constructive proposal for major strategic issues ahead of us that we must decide together both at the level of the Government and the Croatian Parliament let's talk about. I will read with interest what ideas the biggest opposition party has analyzed on the round table today. I can't be in two places, but I'll study them. There must be ideas that can be useful. And so, what I'm saying is that on relations with neighbouring countries, let's not turn every European debate into repeating a number of open issues with neighbours. Croatia solves them, has to solve them and will solve them. When it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that on many occasions everyone could see how many times we were the first to support its integrity, its integrity, its quality of functioning and its commitment to Croatian people's rights as constitutional. Keep in mind that we have certainly helped here the president of the HDZ of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatian National Assembly and a member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina at this very time last year, while he was the chairman of the Presidency to be the one who would leave a formal application for membership in the hands of the President of the Netherlands then a little less than a year ago as a clue that the initiative of the Croatian political representative and Bosnia and Herzegovina had made that step. This happened with the support of both the Government and parliamentary diplomacy and the representatives of the European Parliament. And we will continue that path because we think it is good for Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is good for Croatia, that it is good for Croats as a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also for other two peoples and all who live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. About Serbia and the negotiations, I think we were quite clear here. Serbia needs to meet the criteria, there are many residual issues from the time of Milosevic's massive Serbian aggression on Croatia, they are here with us, we live today 25, 26 years later and they must be resolved. The negotiation process is there as an instrument to help and speed up the resolution of these problems, from the missing ones we also talked about two days ago in this House, from the issue of the border, the issue of the hybrid regional jurisdiction of their Law on the jurisdiction of the Serbian state institutions to the processing of war crimes to the protection of minorities, their representation, education, culture. These are all topics that are on the agenda and which are on the table of our dialogue. Croatia must be confident, self-aware in its position which is very stable, stable and in security terms as a member of the North Atlantic Union, stable and in a valuable sense, politically as a member of the European Union, stable and in terms of determining important political issues governing relations with neighbours, but also principled when it comes to the values of international order, the universal values shared with the international community. And that's why we're not going to have any dilemmas about such issues, especially issues like the situation in Ukraine, whether or not they're going to tell us whether it cost us something or not. It didn't cost us anything. A system that exists within the meaning of restrictive measures of the European Union exists with or without a visit from one of the Presidents of the Government of Ukraine. On the contrary, we should be proud to contribute in the most constructive way towards peace and respect for international law, and that is the key, counterpart Klisovic, I think that we both went through a lot of games in a similar way and I believe that respect for international law is one of the common values behind which we can stand. And that is why I will advocate on the European Council that Croatia, in accordance with its role, according to its size and its weight on that body, makes a pertinent contribution exactly the way it should on those topics where we are strong and that in those broad themes we are as principled as the issue of migration policy. And the economic benefits, financial benefits from membership in the European Union, we will only be able to assess when this budgetary framework is completed, this seven-year financial perspective ends. Then we will draw the line and see how good we were at absorption, how well we used European policies, how well we transposed our legislation, how strong our institutions are to implement them and how much legal entities and natural persons are willing to take advantage of all that is available to us, from the employment of young people, freedom of movement, education, Erasmus plus or other activities. There are disproportionate opportunities that countries like ours with our situation before membership in the European Union can only help us, they cannot help us. We can help ourselves eventually. But this context, this frame that we've all left behind. Remember, colleagues sitting here before you unanimously ratified the Treaty of Accession of the European Union, unanimously. And the support we received from most of the Croatian people in the referendum, and then it was the result of a public debate, not a referendum organised on speed, the debate lasted two years. I've had the honour of going through all the county, all the institutions, academic, professional, chambers, media, schools, colleges. There's no institution in which I wasn't in the process. And just because I did it, I know how hard it is to do that kind of communication. I'll tell you one detail from the analysis then. All institutions together as many as there are – governments, NGOs, international or domestic in 20 years of efforts to bring these topics closer to the Croatian people we have come by numerous analyses of only 10% of our population – all together, which means that only 1 out of 10 people you meet here in the city on the road are in a position to be in a room while one of these or similar discussions is being conducted. These are your realities, and that's why it's important that we talk about it. There is also a very important role and responsibility for the public of the Croatian Parliament. I will come back as soon as the next European Council is finished. There'll be other topics then. The fact that we have informally before that in Malta, then this anniversary in Rome in new circumstances, probably at the time of the United Kingdom's notification of the results of the referendum, imposes debate and plenary session of the Parliament and parliamentary committees to lead a thorough debate and contribute to the politics and attitudes of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26555	Thank you very much. We've got a line on this one, too. The esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26556	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. So we have now heard in this final presentation of the prime minister that the Croatian referendum on the accession of the European Union was therefore correct, that it was a reasonable decision, but at the same time the referendum on the exit from the European Union of Great Britain was the prime minister's mistake. So I don't understand how such different criteria can be applied in the assessment of the same thing. So the referendum is a referendum. If ours is legal and theirs is legal. He's not the prime minister's fault. So we could now say on the basis of this analogy that the referendum on entering the European Union was the mistake of Prime Minister Milanovic who allowed it, and it did not. I still don't understand why we must therefore enter some of the internal affairs of the countries which, let's say, are frankly powers like Russia or like the UK and now we comment on their coming out of the European Union as some kind of mistake. Well, Great Britain is a cradle of democracy. Great Britain is 50 times the economic strength of Croatia. There are 20 times as many people. Do we really think that this nation was the hostage of one man so his name was Prime Minister or I don't know how? I think we should remind again of President Trump's statement, which is that some other countries will leave the European Union. Well, I would ask perhaps the Prime Minister knows more because he is communicating with the European Council to tell us what countries these are, which are countries that will still have some prime ministers who will make mistakes that will again, like some dictators from history, be able to decide on behalf of the entire people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26557	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26558	Dear Representative Bunjac, I believe that politics, governments have a kind of privilege, which is to make political decisions and make political choices. Prime Minister Cameron's mistake is that he decided to organise a referendum. That's what I'm saying, that's what I've been thinking for the last 3 years since his speech where he made it public because he wanted to solve the problem first and foremost within his own party that slipped off in one direction that we see now that she left the European People's Party and that family in 2009. And that's what I'm saying is it's wrong because he's given his decision to the political space for the manipulators and those who admit themselves that they were speaking false in a referendum campaign like Nigel Parage to convince unfortunately too many British voters to say no. The same British had a referendum in '75 and they said yes. It was their third referendum in the history of their political culture. So the public and voters get used to that institute. They're not Switzerland, and that's why the result was the way it was, with 72% of the people going out on a referendum. In Italy 68. Score 40, 60 repeat. The point I'm talking about is the other way around. He was doing a referendum for which there was no need. We were working on a referendum that we believe was necessary, that it was good to get the support of most Croatian voters and most of the Croatian people for a strategic decision that puts us in a position in the international arena in the long term. And I am glad that I was the one who led that campaign that we won, and the referendum fell only on time at the beginning of the mandate of the then government to the Kukurik coalition, but the whole campaign and the whole preparation was made earlier than the government and the government that also negotiated Croatian membership in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26559	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this report. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and his associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26560	We are now going to vote on the debated points. The first is the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held during 2016. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Clubs, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Club of Representatives of the HDS, the HSLS, the HDSB and the Club of Representatives of the Working and Solidarity, the Reformist and Independent Representatives, I am giving the following conclusion: the reports of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on meetings of the European Council held during 2016 shall be accepted. Please include the vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I find that, most 112 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 2 against, we have adopted reports by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held during 2016. Dear colleagues of the MPs and MPs continue with the agenda point: 2. Report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held during 2016. The President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 11. Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. You've received the material into the boxes. I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I ask him to submit an opening statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26562	... Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Here is the third day in a row in the Croatian Parliament and I must admit that it is a special pleasure for me and I am pleased to step up the dialogue at this level between the executive and the legislative authorities and thus show additional respect for the Croatian Parliament and its role in articulating the foreign and European policies of the Republic of Croatia. He would also like to look back on the arrival of European Council President Donald Tusk here in Zagreb on the 25th anniversary of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia. The former Polish prime minister, who is here at the half-term of his role as President of the European Council in this way as the first EU man, has shown as much as he himself and European institutions respect Croatia, its achievements and its role and contribution to the European project. I think his speech in Croatian is unique. As far as I know, there are few Croats who spoke so well of both Croatia and Europe and our common values. I also congratulate you on this pay phone after I did so last night to the newly elected President of the European Parliament to my great friend Antonio Tajani who took over from Martin Schulz yesterday. And in this way I can say that in the leading places of all European institutions, above all, he had excellent acquaintances of Croatia and our friends and political, and personal, and people who believe in this project and who will be sure in the next 2.5 years on their duties to be our partners in solving common problems. This is an opportunity to make a summary of the work of the European Council in 2016, a year which was not only specific to a number of aspects as we have seen for the Croatian political scene, was extremely special, unusual and for the EU, and we can also say about global movements. We experienced a scenario that in the Prime Minister, two members of over 60 million people resigned after the lost referendums. That hasn't happened in Europe yet. A referendum on the remainder or departure of the United Kingdom from the EU to the polls drew 70% of voters, 48 were for, 52 were against. Several months later in Italy, a referendum on constitutional changes took place on President Renzi's initiative, a referendum that tied the government's political fate to the outcome of a referendum that even 68% of Italians came out, 40 supported a percentage of the reform and even 60 were against it. That Europe has not yet experienced. And it is precisely in this context that it is extremely important that we lead a European policy, that we recognise the trends that are currently taking place in it and that we will position the Republic of Croatia especially after President Trump's victory in the US presidential elections and the new global circumstances, and also very clearly speaking more coherent Russia's policy on all theatres of global events at the moment. In this context, Croatia participated in 6th European Councils, 5th formal and 1st informal. The 4th of the 6th meeting was attended by former Prime Minister Oreshkovic, and I participated in the last 2nd meeting representing Croatia. Let me begin by saying a few words about this last meeting of the European Council held in December, which had several important topics of migration, security, economic and social development, the issue of youth and issues of EU foreign relations and foreign policy. Since I spoke about the European Council in October immediately after returning from Brussels, I will put an emphasis on the key issues that dominated the debate on the last day of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in December was December 15th. When it comes to migration, Croatia considers it and I have made it clear that the Member States' strategic uniform response to solidarity is an optimal approach to the management of migration pressures. We view solidarity as a value which is the basis of the European project, and the views of Member States on the division of burdens and responsibilities, i.e. By accepting a number of asylum seekers, I believe, and according to the Croatian division, which should be fair, equal and proportionate. Croatia has committed to the acceptance of 1600 people over the past period, and so far only 19 people from Italy have been realised under the system. In 2015, 211 persons were asked for international protection in Croatia, from which 41 requests were granted, and in 2016 that trend was increased to 2231 requests and 99 were approved. We supported the reform of the European asylum system, and our view is that the right way is to effectively manage the EU's external borders. And in this context, we have expressed satisfaction with the rapid establishment and beginning of the work of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, which we consider to be a good example of the European response to the crisis. It's our priority, of course, to so-called. The eastern Mediterranean or Balkan route remains closed. This is also politically important for Croatia, and we need to insist on dialogue with the countries of Southeast Europe and all EU members as well. The approach that includes co-operation with partners is the only possible situation that we have today and remains in continuity, and that we provide Croatian borders with all the measures that the Croatian police are doing today using both technology and people without building physical obstacles. Regarding the external dimension of EU migration, the Council confirmed all those conclusions concerning relations with Turkey, in particular a statement between the EU and Turkey to be implemented in full and without exceptions. This is particularly important since Turkey is the key and the main country that can determine the dynamics of further refugee migration waves towards EU territory. At the European Council, we also discussed new agreements signed with a series of African states from where the inflow comes from the Middle Mediterranean route and which will be among other things the main theme of the informal European Council meeting in Malta in early February. EU policies should be focused on the full use of all instruments that create the causes and risks of migration to address in those countries where they arise, where there is instability, poverty, conflicts, wars and all that encourages a number of people at risk for their own lives to go into uncertainty towards EU members. And in particular, we need to step up measures against those involved in migrant smuggling and human trafficking. They are precisely profiting from a human accident and destabilising EU members. It is a strong consensus between the heads of state and the EU government. The second issue we discussed in December was the issue of security, the issue of combating terrorism, where we reached agreement on two significant legislative acts, the Anti-Terrorism Directive and the Regulation amending the Schengen Borders Code as regards systematic checks at EU external borders. The objective of the Anti-Terrorism Directive is to ensure a common response to the appearance of foreign terrorist fighters, thereby strengthening the deterrent effect across the EU and ensuring the effective punishment of the perpetrators. This Directive transposes international obligations under Security Council Resolution 2178 of 2014 on foreign terrorist fighters and recently adopted an additional protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. I supported on behalf of Croatia the adoption of this directive, which I consider to be a quality criminal-legal response to the security challenges that today represent foreign terrorist fighters and returnees. Croatia supports the implementation of all measures and activities to prevent the use of a financial system for money laundering for the purpose of terrorist financing. We have also fully supported those measures aimed at establishing supervision of financial flows, as well as preventing the misuse of financial and non-financial systems to cover up illegally acquired funds. What is important and what I would like to point out here is that we have had one amendment to the conclusions of the European Council in paragraph 9 where we have inserted a formulation to take into account the specific situation of those EU Member States which are not yet within the Schengen system in order to avoid any problems of further strengthening members of the Schengen system, i.e. The border between EU members who are in Schengen and those who are still not, and as you know we are one of the countries that is passing the evaluation process, we have discussed this in the government and with the President of the European Council of Tusk and have made it clear that this is one of the priorities in which the financial envelope for EU accession was 120m euros, and where we want, for example, not to re-separate today's single border control, which would naturally slow down the course of control and possible problems, or slow down the border crossing, and, of course, also cause additional costs. The EU has adopted its global strategy on foreign and security policy in June 2016 since then, there have been a number of documents concerning its implementation, the action plan, a joint statement from Warsaw, co-operation between the EU and the North Atlantic Alliance in the implementation and the EU Security Agenda, and for Croatia, the values shared by the North Atlantic Union and the EU are very close and we believe that we must make a continuous contribution in both organisations, seeking to ensure that their action is complementary and that there is no duplication of activities. The aspect that was high on the agenda of the European Council in December was, of course, the economic and social situation in Europe, and the issue of youth. We had a meeting with the President of the European Central Bank, Draghi, who held a presentation on the state of the European economy with the conclusion that the situation is good, the prospects are good, that economic growth is around 1.7%, and that 4 million new jobs have been created at EU level over the last three years. Of course, it was also about the impact of a negative referendum in the United Kingdom on the economic stability of the EU and the risks it could pose, especially for financial markets. Croatia supported the extension of the European Fund for Strategic Investments until 2020, so until the end of the current multi-annual financial framework, which lasts until the end of this decade, whose audit as you know so-called. The mid-term review under way at this time and is being negotiated both within the Council and through a triage with the Commission and the European Parliament. I reiterated that it would be crucial not to have an unbalanced geographical representation when it comes to projects and investments from this fund. It is the kind of blinding funds from the European Structural Investment Funds, and the European Fund for Strategic Investments should be the real mix that will give additional value to the implementation of projects throughout the continent, as well as in Croatia. We also supported the European Commission's intention to extend the guarantees for young people and its funding through the Youth Employment Initiative. You know that in the first three years of this financial perspective, the focus has been placed on projects for young people because this is a question of youth unemployment recognised in a number of member states, and Croatia is among three to four Member States where the problem is clearly visible and we can say acute. The implementation of the guarantee in Croatia has so far accelerated the process of developing relevant policies, and we welcome its continued role in the fight against youth unemployment with a focus on making implementation as successful as possible in the coming period. This is one of the very clear and accepted tasks I have given Minister Ćorić who has the task of making all the resources available from this guarantee additionally strengthened by national means. The foreign policy topics were discussed in detail on the way of ratification of the Association Agreement with Ukraine, of course in the Netherlands, where one negative referendum was also held, the third negative referendum on 6 April and the adoption of a decision allowing my court in the Dutch Parliament to take note of this consultation referendum, while also recommending that the Association Agreement has clearly defined objectives and does not immediately assume the next step, it is in a position to ratify this agreement in both Houses of the Dutch Parliament, and in the context of parliamentary elections held there in the spring. The special guest of the European Council was Aleppo Mayor Hagi Hasan, who at that time spoke of a very difficult situation in Syria, especially in Aleppo. You know what came after that, as well as the talks that were scheduled in Astana and Geneva. When it comes to the United Kingdom, I would like to mention that here are these two meetings of the European Council that I've been to, 28 of us even four were new, ladies... and I in October, and Italian and Lithuanian prime ministers were new in December, so four new ones in just two months. Her speech, some of you may have noticed yesterday that the result of the referendum does not leave any dilemma. However, what is important is that the whole process will start at the moment of notification of the launch of Article 50. The EU Treaty, therefore, is the possibility of leaving a membership that has never been in practice before the Lisbon Treaty. And what is important is that this process of negotiations is arranged, to be predictable, to be led by the European Commission by former Commissioner Michel Barnier and former French Foreign Minister who was also in Croatia a few weeks ago and with whom we discussed the technology of the process that will certainly take several years. What kind of regulated relations will the United Kingdom have with the EU afterwards, it is only coming to see this because it is neither the classical relationship between the status of accession or any strategic partnership. I think it will be about some form of institutional cooperation that has not been defined by the EU's institutional architecture until the end, and neither are the United Kingdom's wishes known to the end. On the part of Croatia, the important aspect of this European Council, along with foreign political topics and young immigration, was, of course, the debate we had on the sidelines on a number of issues relating to global relations between the EU and Russia, where it is clear that relations should be redefine with regard to a number of changes in terms of strength. And in this context, a new kind of dialogue with Russia will be one of the key topics for 2017. When it comes to earlier meetings of the European Council held as I said in February, March and June, what I think is important at the moment is that Croatia made an effort in February to reach an agreement with the United Kingdom was one of the constructive countries when that package was negotiated, which was discussed in the Croatian public as well. Unfortunately, he was not too useful because the referendum had a different character. But the issues that dominated were economic issues, better quality use of the European budget, and particularly European structural and investment funds. A few words about what's expected this year. This year we enter the 60th anniversary of the Roman Treaties and therefore our Italian friends decided to host the end of March meeting of the European Council to mark the 60th anniversary of the European project. That meeting has a lot of ambitions but from talking to all colleagues there is a sense of reality right now. The EU will never be the same again after the United Kingdom exit procedure is completed. I have said it before in public and I will repeat it and now I think it was a huge unforgivable political mistake for David Cameron at all to go to such a referendum that was neither needed nor needed and he speaks a lot of things about the referendum as an institute because instead of one win situation in my opinion, it was only for him within the relationship of the force of the conservative party that became a losing situation and for him, personally, it was already quite clear, quite certain for the United Kingdom and we will see only all together in the global financial markets when the whole story is over. For this reason, a declaration should be expected in Rome to make a summary of the moment in which the European project is still in place today. We cannot expect a renaissance of the project after such results from a broader context but we must show direction. And in this context, I see in particular the great importance and responsibility of Croatia. Croatia is perceived by many EU members, so you could also understand this through the messages of the President of the European Council of Turkey as not only in terms of the order of the last EU member states, but the country that demonstrated with its political moves very clearly that with the full consciousness of the nation, the state, what we achieved only 25 years ago in our society and in our society may be even stronger than those who live in peace after World War II over 70. How important it is to assume the values on which this project was built peace, cooperation and economic prosperity. And that is why it is extremely important what role we will play in the context of the policy of those EU members from Central and Eastern Europe, what message will we send to our neighbourhood in Southeast Europe, how will we address the open issues we have with our neighbours? I also said this yesterday after the current hour of opportunity and this calls upon the Croatian Parliament and this Government to resolve quite a number of open issues on the agenda, to resolve them in a rational way by firmly representing national interests but also by taking care of methods and cooperation and the future of relations with countries with which we will share and cooperate, and the economic interests and movement of people in the decades ahead. That is why I find it consistent and, by my deep conviction, the policy of agreement on strategic priorities when it comes to foreign and European politics should also be important at the level of the Croatian Parliament. You saw yesterday that the large compromise coalition at European Parliament level was partly encouraged by these elections which were unusually marked the end of a major coalition between the peoples and the European Socialists and now turned into a coalition of broken and liberals who, to the greatest extent, chose Antonia Tajani as president in Croatia, need to make sure that the direction we have towards European politics is as unique as possible and that we are behind it in our international activities. This is very important, and so our partners are watching us and they want to detect whether we share the same direction and the same values. I am convinced that by emancipating these topics, we will have the opportunity to build this kind of culture of dialogue and, by my court and to agree on key issues, whether it is relations with the BIH, with Serbia, open issues with Slovenia and the context of INA-MOL with Hungary. These are all topics that are there and will wait for either us or others if we do not use the time ahead to find out in a responsible way the many topics that remain unresolved after 91. It is my impression after talking to colleagues on the European Council, and these are meetings for, many of you know it, but there are some people who are not aware of it and who have not seen this changed technology of work. So only the 28th President of the European Commission, the President of the European Council, the High Representative for Foreign Policy and only a few associates are in the European Council's halls. A more intimate atmosphere at a meeting of the European Council than here in the Croatian Parliament. It is a very small circle of people who focus on these topics around 12 to 15 hours every two months and determines the direction of work throughout the EU and the entire European project. This closeness of the relationship between those who are particularly important at these meetings and I think that we have space through our engagement at diplomatic level, through your engagement in parliamentary diplomacy, through the contacts we have through party international activities to position Croatia as a country that believes in the European project, which gives it its contribution in a responsible way and which can serve as a model for those who have aspirations to join this project. This role we play in this changing global and European context must be used in the best possible way. And that is one of the objectives of this very dialogue that we are working on and we will work regularly during the term of office of this government because I am sitting in benches where you have now had the impression that there are too few of these topics at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and nothing that happens in the legislative process is almost in any way not a little bit if not 90% associated with the legislative process and the role of the Croatian Parliament. I therefore believe that this combination of the political context of the legislative process which is rarely conditioned by activities at the level of European institutions and the important contribution of the Croatian Parliament as a representative of the Croatian people must be united and always kept in mind when we articulate our views both on the national stage and on the European partners. These 25 first years give us reasons for a lot of pride, and these three years that we have until the Presidency of the European Council, or the Council of the European Union, because the European Council will be chaired by the President of the European Council, but for our ministers, for our colleagues at lower levels of government, it will be a challenge that our state administration has not yet faced. And it will be a real test of how much we adopted the content but also the methods of work of the project to which we belong and to which we contribute, and then the Croatian Parliament will have great challenges, and therefore I expect us to prepare together for that responsibility that we will have in the first semester, i.e. the first six months of 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26563	Thank you, Prime Minister. The representative who first reported for the replica is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear President of the Croatian Government, I am pleased that at the beginning and here you have finally pointed out that you want to involve the Croatian Parliament more in creating our foreign policy, but also in our attitude and approach to the European project and European policy in general. That is why I would like to ask you the following, of course, also because of the Croatian public, and also because of the fact that you are, apart from being the Prime Minister and the president of the HDZ party that belongs to the European public in the European Parliament and European integration. I want to ask you next. In front of the European Parliament, a plenary session in Strasbourg will be held tomorrow on the agenda of the Marie Cal Rodriguez report on the European pillar of social rights. It's about a report that was triggered by Mr. Juncker himself. It is about standardisation, i.e. trying to standardise basic social and labour rights in the EU. What concerns me, Mr Plenkovic, is that representatives of the European People's Party including our colleague Shujica have submitted a number of amendments to this report that have passed on the Committee, and these amendments are in fact opposed to the obligation to introduce and define minimum wages for a decent life and regulate the rights to maternity and parental leave, and to promote exploiting concepts such as zero hours of flexible working time contracts and everything else that goes on the hands of the employer above all, rather than the worker. I think that in the context of the problems we are facing in Croatia, which is the outflow of young people, which is that almost 60% of the working people work for minimum wage, that more and more people in Europe are working, working for small wages, on the edge of poverty, that the growing difference between the poor and the rich is, please assure me that I have misheard that HDZ representatives will vote in favour of this amendment or against the report, because of the Croatian public, because of the credible policy and your Government on social issues. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Please tell me I read it wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26565	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26566	Col. Hajduković, you know that these topics are especially when it comes to labour rights, social rights largely being addressed at national level by the subsidiarity principle, so here you have had the opportunity to see that the Croatian government also made unilateral decisions on what minimum wage would be, just like the previous government, i.e. before the previous SDP government made the same decisions. I remind you that I also said yesterday that in our decision this year we were better and higher in terms of salary increases than you in three years all together in 2012 to 2015. I haven't seen this report, I'm going to check with my colleague Shuic, see what's going on, but I'm sure it's one of those reports that have a form of recommendations that's not binding. So this is not a legal act and the amendments submitted by the representatives of the European People's Party are certainly coordinated and will never go against the rights of workers to harm the social status of EU citizens and when I study in detail what you are saying I will answer you to this, and at this point here I do not have that document in front of me right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26567	Thank you for your response. The next representative to report for the replica is Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26568	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister. It is good that you are here to discuss, I will use it to open some important topics for our citizens, especially those that are being debated on the council, which could be found very quickly on council topics. It's good to have this form of report, and now we've heard what's been going on at the European Council meetings. It would be good to hear as you said yesterday in what areas and how it was invested in future relations between Croatia and the United States during the visit of the President of the Republic of Croatia. I have also referred the question here before you, I say to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I expect his answer to the question of a representative who is in charge of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and after that we will see and how we have invested in these relations with the United States as well. What I am particularly interested in here today, and all Croatian citizens are interested in, is the topic that you and the media have opened for the past month, that you are supposed to be an advocate with Governor Vujčić as quickly as possible, which I do not think is good for the Republic of Croatia at this time for a number of reasons, I have no time to explain it, but all of those risks that the Joint Monetary Union and the common currency bring for a small country that is not yet prepared for entry, which is still needed for a while and which must work on its own in a way to be prepared and on one side of one part of the sovereignty that we also need at this point, which is our national currency. So, I object to Croatia's rapid entry into the Monetary Union, I hope that This is also your position, and I hope it is not true, and I hope you will now tell us what is the position of the Croatian Government or your own. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] on the issue and whether such talks have already been held on the European Council. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26569	Thank you, Agent Gordan Maras. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26570	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Maras, I am sure that you as a responsible representative have read the Treaty on Croatia's accession to the EU and that is the importance of the Croatian public knowing that there are no dilemmas, so when EU accession is then legal gains are accepted as a whole. One of the benefits of the European project is the European Monetary Union or the euro and the euro area. So this is about the commitment we took, which we ratified in the Croatian Parliament and which is before us. To access the euro area, you need to accept and meet certain criteria. As for the position of the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament and the previous decision whether we are in favour or not, I think it has been made and, as far as I remember, it has been made consensually. As responsible Prime Minister, I spoke to the governor of the CNB because the CNB has an important role to play. There are EU-level bodies that belong to what the central banks are doing and where dialogue on these topics is also being conducted. I believe that the time ahead must be used to bring us closer to meeting the criteria. And on that track, we will also go towards reducing public debt and all aspects that would lead us to meet the criteria for introducing the euro one day. From the CNB, I expect detailed, thorough analysis of its professional services, at which stage we are, which is the effect, which is what we would do, which would be good if the Croatian Government, the Ministry of Finance, were working as well as our entire fiscal policy to get closer to achieving this goal. It was the essence of our conversation and the basis of what we will cooperate on in the time ahead. So, dynamics, none of us think it's gonna happen by the end of the year, by the end of next year, but I want us to take advantage of it. The mandate we have in order to get concretely close to achieving the objective we have taken over 2011. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26571	Thank you. Representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26572	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I thank you for your willingness to, together with us here in the House, open foreign policy issues much more often than she has ever been, because everything we do in this country has its reflection on the country's international position and we are all aware of that. You mentioned in your statement some indication of President Trump's foreign policy, the newly elected American president. The President of the Republic of Croatia visited the United States and then informed you of the results of her visit. I would like to know whether you have been informed and whether you have spoken and taken views as co-creators of foreign policy on statements or indications of Mr Trump's policy, that more and more countries will leave the EU to weaken, that the EU is the Trojan horse of Germany or a tool for achieving German domination in the EU. Many European leaders are in shock and have publicly shown themselves about such a possible foreign policy of the United States. Since our president has said that we will influence the creation of U.S. foreign policy, I am interested in whether you have taken views on these statements and how do you intend to share with the president in creating US foreign policy on these issues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26573	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26574	Today's topic relating to the 2016 European Council's report does not apply to interviews by newly elected President Trump who were in this year and which are analysed not only by European leaders but by all commentators and all foreign policy experts, so I believe that you are doing the same. I will tell you what is the policy of this government, which is the policy of the parliamentary majority, and I don't think your policy is far from that either. I firmly believe in the European project, I firmly believe in strengthening the mainstream in this European project, it is the key responsibility of those parties that have management capacities at all levels of government. I don't think the trend will continue, that this is the result of a referendum in the United Kingdom's exception and error. I'm saying it's never supposed to come to him again. He held the political volunteerism of a former British prime minister who personally sent himself into history in a political sense by such a mistake for no real reason. And because of one man's mistake, I don't want to build a trend on the European stage and I will do everything as a Croatian representative on the European Council to turn these trends around. However, we will be responsible for monitoring the new policy of America as a major global player, how much pre-election rhetoric, transition rhetoric will have its concrete manifestations in the policy that will go beyond January 20th and then watch carefully what transatlantic relations are, what the role of the North Atlantic alliance, what are the EU and NATO relations, what are the EU and the US relations and what is Croatia's position. I will also discuss this with the President of the Republic through the forms that we have in the design and implementation of our foreign policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26575	I thank the Prime Minister. Representative Zeljko Glasnovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26576	I thank the President-in-Office for the strategic aspect of what is happening in the EU. And primarily I would mention the external threats, we know of the great Serbian imperialism that continues with other means, Islamic unitarism in the neighbouring country, etc. a primarily for some internal threats primarily to the EU's legislative process. What I understand is the EU produces hundreds of legal regulations every year but the question of whether the Croatian judiciary is able to unify and implement these regulations. As we know ours, we inherited a single, legal system of the former state, we have hundreds of thousands of pending cases in courts and such a process, by a legal process we will disappear as the Visigoths seem to me. Because some of these regulations 11, 12 times come through the Parliament, but time is critical and still has no functioning state and that legal system is certainly a major challenge. That's the first question. The doctrines don't interfere, we interfere in the Warsaw Pact, it's because it's failed, and NATO doctrines, which only mixes administrative anarchy and modern economy. Another issue on key painful points, which is what separates the Croatian people today, and this is a question of decommunisation and dealing with systems, former systems. He had an example. The platform, the educational platform, is a European platform for memory and conscience that gives us a framework for us to solve these problems through, for example. Reconciliation committees, etc. The European Court of Human Rights has passed the law to, for example, must return the confiscated property, which is confiscated. We haven't solved any of these problems yet, and these are the two key issues. The real issue is the legislative problem, and the other is the issue of decommunisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26577	Thank you. Thank you, Agent Glasnović. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26578	Thank you, dear colleague Glasnović, for the two questions you asked. The first question I would not put only in the context of our abilities when it comes to the judiciary, about the implementation of European legislation. You are here, the Croatian Parliament, an extremely important role in transposing EU secondary legislation, in particular the directive. You know how much work we've done in the access process. Nearly 700 legal acts, over 1500 legal acts, have been carried out by their kind of legitimate tsunamis earlier in the Croatian Parliament. We are now in a position to follow the legislative process from the aspect and government through the Council and the Croatian Parliament through various forms of roles of national parliaments in the legislative process. And they, not only with their own content, but also with a method, have the task of strengthening our legal system, its reliability, predictability and efficiency. This is what is good for our subjects and for all those who want to do business in Croatia. The second topic you mentioned is the European Platform for Reconciliation and Memory. I know that subject a lot better than many people think. I was the vice-president of an informal group in the European Parliament dealing with reconciliation of European history. I have thoroughly analyzed and seen what other countries in Central and Eastern Europe have done on this subject. They did it just before we did it, they did it in the '90s, and they almost completed those processes at the beginning of the last decade. Croatia did this job in the way they did it in peace, because we were then in a situation of defence against the great Serb Milosevic's aggression, we did not have time for the process, nor did we have a thorough debate with the past. One of the ambitions I have for this government and for the time ahead with the important role of the Croatian Parliament is that this process in a mature, rational way, we spend an inclusive way and determine ourselves according to all the totalitarian systems of the 20th century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26579	Thank you. Representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26580	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you a question. It's about the BiH. What kind of attitude do you have toward the BIH today? We see that political situations change every day, you saw for yourself that the Serbian Republic does not respect the BiH Constitution and that some things are happening very strangely. In particular, I would ask you what attitude you will have towards the expelled Croats from the BiH, and I will especially mention from the Bosnian Posavina. You know for a fact that there are nearly 200 thousand Croats who had to move out of their homes, they are expelled, exiled, the Serbian Republic happened, not today after 20 years, 25 years of silence, and 5000 Croats have been returned. Their houses are unrenewed, so I ask if Croatia has a strategy for the Serbian Republic and what attitude it will take towards Dodig. We see for ourselves that simply these people have no chance of getting to their homes, not building them. Well hundreds of homes, hundreds of villages are burned, standing today, for 20 years and Croatian politics on it is silent. I want it anyway and I want the Serbs back in their homes in Croatia. Therefore, help these people because the 200,000 fates that are happening in Serbia, especially in the Serb republic and others in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats are certainly neglected. So please do something about it. You were talking about boundaries. The other day we were talking about our police not being well, our police aren't enough and they're not enough to protect our borders in Eastern Slavonia. I know that well. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]] They're not well equipped, so please pay attention to that matter, especially again. I repeat that you are wrestling from the Bosnian Posavina that... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26581	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26582	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, first of all, let me answer this last question. Croatian police and the Ministry of the Interior have stepped up control of the external border of the Republic of Croatia, of course, by bordering the Republic of Croatia towards Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in Eastern Croatia. And it's not just the police who are territorially competent, but other activities, and I think we're leading this process in one responsible and very high-quality and effective way, and I've been regularly briefed by the Home Secretary. When it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it is quite clear and that a great deal of agreement has been reached between all political parties in Croatia, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is an important number of foreign political topics for Croatia, but also a topic concerning the issues and positions of Croats as a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Three of our fellow MPs who were elected here on the list for Croats outside Croatia come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, they speak on the subject regularly, and this was also the parliamentary issue yesterday from Foreign Minister Stier. My first international visit was to Sarajevo, Mostar, Kiseljak. We will also prepare a joint session of the government and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The issue of Croats and their position within Republika Srpska's entities is on our AGENDA. It is also important in terms of return, i.e. the possibility and support of the return process. I was also in Orash, in Banja Luka several times over the past few years, conducting dialogue with political representatives of Croats, with Banja Luka Bishop Komarica. I am aware of all the problems and it is a lasting responsibility and the task of helping this process much better and much more than it was in the years behind us and that the signal and voice of the Croatians from the Bosnian Posavina association and they live in many parts of Croatia as a guide and advice on how to best put the state on the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26583	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26584	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you've looked back on foreign policy. We are witnessing that chapter 23 has been opened to Serbia in pre-accession negotiations with the EU and that it has gained the status of the small Hague, it has obtained the status of jurisdiction legally in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, over Croatian defenders in this case for the first time in history, it has happened that the aggressor will receive the right to judge the Croatian defender in European gains. And that's where we have to look at this moment through the prism when it's increased, i.e. when they openly run the state of Nikolic and Vucic, people who were the enforcers of Milosevic's policy, who were chief advisers to the Chetnik Duke Vukic, who called for the borders of Greater Serbia, which means that Croatian diplomacy was not well placed in this case. Because if we compare what Croatia had to fill in from those big four words of sad and shameful arrest, location, transfer, arrest and processing of the most prominent Croatian sons. Serbia was allowed to be a judge of Croatian defenders, and we see the calls sent before the Orthodox Christmas where it was said, where it is also called for Milosevic's policy, where it calls for the threat of Serbs and that the envoy of Vukic, who has now declared himself the prime minister, who called for, will mean the threat of the Serbs to defend Serbia by all means. This Croatian policy has failed, this Croatian policy of the sea, I call you must stop until this law, jurisdiction in Serbia, is changed which is above the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I further stress that the great Serb policy of leaders who were Chetniks, Chetnik dukes and Nikolic and Vukic, that today they are jeopardising Croatia and we must also be grateful to the people who are the Serb national minority who defended Croatian territory in Croatia. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26585	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26586	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, first in terms of relations with Serbia and the position of the Croatian government in the context of Chapter 23 on justice and fundamental rights. I remind you, negotiations between Serbia and the EU began at a time ahead of the previous Croatian government. So that's number one. At that time, common positions and a negotiating framework for negotiations with Serbia were formed. At a time when we were in the European Parliament together with several other colleagues, we also launched an initiative through resolutions concerning the commissions and reports on Serbia's progress for the first time in EU documents concerning Serbia's jurisdiction in the processing of war crimes. So that's what HDZ representatives did. In the past government, you have here a former foreign minister, Kovač, who has advocated putting into the EU position negotiator a number of aspects that speak very clearly what are the criteria that Serbia needs to meet in Chapter 23, and among other things concerns the issue of the hybrid, regional jurisdiction of Serbia for the processing of war crimes, a topic that we have opened many times and which, by the very existence of such legislation in Serbia, creates uncertainty among Croatian defenders, we have said that several times. And that's one of those questions I said there must be a topic on the agenda for Croatia and Serbia to resolve. As a responsible EU member, we want to guarantee the safety of Croatian defenders, above all, the security of movement. There's not a single case on the agenda right now. There may be potential and we will do everything possible to address these issues through the negotiating process, and of course this applies to the very dynamics of this negotiating process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26587	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26588	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, Croatian Prime Minister. I welcome on behalf of the HSS and, in my name, this practice to inform us about the meetings of the European Council, and I am sure that our public is interested in these topics as well. And one of the important issues for the Croatian economy is the exit of Great Britain and Brexit, in which European policies are thinking about protecting their economies, and for us much more importantly whether you and the HGK and other competent institutions have talked about this issue and what we are planning specifically to do to protect the Croatian economy that this exit from the EU has as little effect on us and on our exports as possible. And we can see in this connection that the European Council and European policies are thinking about the problem of young people and the unemployed, we see that so far the policies in Croatia have had devastating effects, that there are a high rate of unemployment especially for young people and that our young people are leaving. Here I am pleased that the European Council is dealing with this problem that you are thinking in a similar way, that you have tasked Minister Šorić with increasing activities from national sources in this direction, so we are particularly interested to see if you can tell how much of the funding from the national budget and when the first measures can be expected and give young people a chance and hope that they will also have a job in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26589	Thank you. The reply of the esteemed Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26590	The issue of youth employment or reducing the unemployment rate is one of the priority issues for Croatia. So Spain, Greece, Italy, Croatia are unfortunately four countries that are at the top of the phenomenon of this problem that prevents the rapid integration of young people into the labour market. That policy, which has existed for several years under the model of Scandinavian countries at EU level, is that it avoids the number of young people who are neither in the education system nor in any kind of traineeship, nor in any kind of vocational training must come at least. Therefore, the guarantee for young people and is one of the instruments that should solve this problem effectively, it is as an added value to national funds. Kola Ćoric has brought together a team of people who have been dealing with this particular youth employment problem for several years and also through the NGO sector. In the European Parliament, too, I have held a large conference on the subject with representatives of the Commission and young people. I think that we will try to do this task more well and more effectively than before, bring EU budget funding to the end-user as quickly as possible and thus help reduce the number of unemployed young people in Croatia. It is an acute issue of Croatian society, Croatian economy, Croatian social tissue if I can call it that, and one of the important roles to help make this phenomenon smaller is a quality education system. And therefore, the continuation of educational reform will certainly be a priority of the work of this government and in this respect I believe that we will bring out young people from the educational cycle who have abilities and critical opinions and analyses and synthesiss, and also have a prerequisite that for quality specialisation and competitiveness in the labour market not only Croatia but also the entire EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26591	Thank you. And the final replica of the Prime Minister's presentation is that of the distinguished representatives of Anne-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26592	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Plenkovic. First of all, I would like to thank you for your information on the meeting of the European Council, and I am particularly interested in whether there have been any discussions at these meetings on a major elemental disaster that happened not only last year, but also countries in the environment, both Slovenia and Austria. We know that there is a European Solidarity Fund that allows financial support to a particular Member State in the event of a major elemental accident, and also that in Croatia last year, the elemental disaster amounted to more than one billion kuna, and only fruit farmers suffered damages of more than 500 million kuna, while only 20 million kunas were paid out of the state budget for compensation, even though we at HSS asked that this amount was much bigger for our agricultural producers, since we know how big the problem is. So what I'm interested in is whether this problem has been specifically discussed at these meetings and whether Croatia or the ministry has taken concrete action regarding the search for these funds from the European Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26593	Thank you. Here's a response from Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26594	Thank you. The two last meetings I attended were in October and December, given the circumstances of this particular case, there was no question. However, the European Council, of course, gives signals and messages to an important European solidarity policy when it comes to major natural disasters and is not unusual to discuss this. The European Solidarity Fund is extremely important, we have used it on several occasions in recent years for the various disasters that have occurred. The procedure is such that it is done by the competent ministry, the government is asking the European Commission to be analysed, the European Parliament is giving consent and the funds are then transferred to a certain percentage, so there is never a full refund because one significant percentage of the funds comes to Croatia. Therefore, the issues of solidarity on the European Council are crucial, they are the very core of the project, the very essence of the functioning of the family, that first reflection to see what our neighbours can in particular help those who are at risk. Therefore, at informal meetings whenever this happens, you always have expressions of solidarity and mechanisms that exist are well-stalked and settled at any level of the Council, either the Commission, or Parliament, or at any other institutional level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26595	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia for the opening statement and for the answers. And I'm opening a debate about his exposure. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, the first word will be taken by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26596	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, and I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for this report that opened my eyes as a little bit of a report in this House. Namely, I have until today been raising some weak hope that you are still the Croatian prime minister, but after your words today I am firmly convinced that you are just one extermination project and nothing else. In fact, such a swearing in everything that is on this continent and in the world, it is truly rare to hear. The EU's slaughter, faith as if it were a religion. I really don't remember any Croatian prime minister ever speaking like that in this House. Not only have you not been ashamed to use the word masterstream as something positive but you have expressed your full agreement that, as you yourself said, a small circle, a group of 30, 40 people decide on everything that happens on this continent with inconceivable consequences for hundreds of millions of people. I don't know at one point I just went through my head that famous song "Yalta, Yalta" where a couple of people took a map of the world and drew coffee and cookies. And the consequences of that as we can see, we are feeling today in a world divided that may also result in World War III. Let's say the open blindness of the EU's follow-up involves, among other things, corporate leverage, bank leverage, further social injustice. I mean, now from this conversation of yours, I realize that you will actually support and... and everything else that every man, a common man of common sense, must stand up to. Not only will you support it, but you even think that you must be ahead of those who conduct such a policy, that you must be the leader and thus become clear that this story of some national interests that you allegedly represent is nothing more than just one cover, only one smoke screen to implement a policy that is actually contrary to the interests of the citizens. Here are some concrete examples of this report, so for 2016 as well as your government directly. What was the point of you going to Ukraine and there sharpening relations with Russia, doing further damage to the Croatian economy, although the damage has already been enormously measured in tens of millions of euros especially for farmers, to teach the history of Crimea. I'd really like to ask you if you even know what the history of Crimea is. And do you even listen to what he says? Newly elected American president? How does he treat Russia? Do you know how much damage she suffered, how much damage did the United States suffer from sanctions against Russia? How many dollars? Just zero. Does that tell you anything about your foreign policy? Have you heard a statement from a few days ago that several other countries will leave the EU? Has that statement also been made in your opinion by a populist and a demagogue, or has that information been spoken by a man who is very well informed about all the events in world politics? What is your statement also saying that Croatia will introduce the euro in the next period although you know two things well, firstly that Croatia has no conditions to introduce the euro because our public debt is too large, and the economy is too weak for Croatian citizens and citizens of Europe to trust in the euro anymore. Austrian citizens believe in the euro, 11% of citizens believe in that euro, in the Czech Republic perhaps even less, in Hungary and you are now announcing that we are going to introduce something that has already been rejected by the entire people of Europe. That might be a bit of a cartoon, but I don't know about the introduction of feudalism. So one idea has become pure anacronism. Of course, by not going further into the fact that we are giving up Croatian sovereignty by giving up our own destiny, our own future, our country which we have gained very hard and bloody through 1400 years of existence in these places. This kind of foreign policy that you stand for and that the previous government has stood for, for example, policy towards Syria, is a disaster of all disasters. Such mutilation, advocacy to foreign prime ministers and ministers as it began with the former foreign minister, and through the others it continued all the way to you. Do you know, and I believe you know, that you are informed, that the oil fields in Syria are worth 23 billion dollars or about 150 billion kuna. In whose interest have we given up such riches? In the name of what? Why we damaged Croatian farmers with sanctions on Russia, Croatian tourism. From what I hear, new sanctions are being prepared for Croatia, caused solely by your statements. We'll no longer be getting parts for military technology, so it's announced. Our agencies in Russia will have to pay a special tax, or tax. What's all this for? Is this the real national interest of Croatia as you say? Is this some kind of attitude of Croatian citizens or is it actually a policy that uses this very narrow group of people that you yourself have listed who today wants to rule the world in a non-democratic way and actually introduce a hidden dictatorship. I would also refer to your statement that the EU is making efforts to reduce youth unemployment, so here I would like you to answer how the European Union reduced youth unemployment in Croatia by not knowing young people moved out and employed in Germany or Ireland. Is that a success in solving youth unemployment? Croatia is the second from the bottom, from the unemployed young people in Europe. I think the first one's just Spain. Where are the measures that Croatian citizens feel some benefit from the EU? This year, your government will assign each of us including these MPs here and including newborn children only this year, only in 2017 you will charge us 12,000 kuna each of us, 12000 kuna, and we from the EU receive from the EU 2000 kuna funds annually. So we're changing 12 by 2 and we're saying that this is some kind of progress, as it is in our interest. I don't know, please, I'll spend one day 24 hours on Croatian streets, in Croatian homes. Let's see how people live. What this EU has brought to Croatia, this policy that began in 2000 after the president of your HDZ who tried so hard to protect Croatia's interests, this endless borrowing. Get your demographic, economic, agricultural statistics. Look how many sheep, cows, pigs, milk, anything in Croatia, and see how this one statistic falls into a abyss from which there is no end. So I think what you said today must be very serious. We simply need to understand that for the next four years, the same harmful policy will continue as it has brought us into this state and that we must simply all ask ourselves not only young people, but also whether there may be any more point in living in this country. Is the battle for Croatia finally lost? We have, among other things, this year and, as MP Glasovic said, we will have to vote in the EU-led Parliament, so here are dear MPs 71 of the law as long as it takes us to pass the laws in at least 71 days, in order to vote on laws that we can't discuss at all. What are we going to discuss? On European directives and European regulations. We'll be here shortly after this discussion of the arms and explosives procurement and registration laws. What exactly are we discussing? About whether it's a neck or a neck, whether it's blue or blue. So basically the cosmetic changes themselves, but at the end of the day, we don't decide anything. Therefore, from your entire report, we can only briefly conclude that Croatia's foreign policy and its participation in the EU has turned into a complete debacle. When we put all this together on this visit to the President of the United States, we can conclude that with such a government, Croatian citizens, with the mention of their duties and everything else that goes with it is not well written. And I believe I'm going to cause some criticism now, but I'm glad that this speech is recorded, that it will be able to be seen in four years, that it will be able to look at itself in 50 years and in 100 years the same way that today there is still a phonogram of Stjepan Radic's statement, "Don't crash like geese in fog." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26597	Thank you. Your debate caused a whole series of replicas, a total of six. But before I give my word to the first replica, I have to correct you, it's a little bit of you, in the Czech Republic there's a coin of the Czech crown, not the euro, that's what you said. But in any case, the first replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear comrade Bunjac, there'd be a lot of themes to replicate, so I'll only be two. First of all, I know that you are also aware that the project of Croatia's accession to full EU membership is one of the two important projects on which the Croatian people have reached consensus, so here and here in this assembly. You weren't there at the time, but I believe you're familiar with it, so this is how you talk about this project that has reached consensus on me is completely inappropriate, it's your right as a parliamentary representative. On the other hand, calling the legitimately elected president of the Croatian government a Brussels project beyond any reason is, primarily because he was elected in the multi-party democratic elections in Croatia and thus you underestimate the mind, I would also say the will of two million Croatian voters who went to the elections on September 11th. If that's how you ask and perform here in this assembly then you can rightly ask a question, whose project are you? Whose project is the Living Wall? If that's how you can call the Croatian Prime Minister and all of us who elected him here in this assembly, then you underestimate the minds of those of us who elected the Prime Minister here in this assembly. The way you've been performing lately raises the question of whose account and whose name do you perform in this way when you underestimate the words of Croatian voters and parliamentary representatives? I'd like to ask you to make a public appearance here in this assembly once too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26599	Thank you. The honourable representative will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26600	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bačić, this is not only possible for me to think or think of the Living Wall. If you're going to look at a lot of media news, it's about what I've been saying. So I'm not the first one to mention that the prime minister is set up here with the support of Brussels but I'm just convinced today, so I'm convinced by the prime minister himself. When you say it's very unusual to speak against the EU here, so I remind you, we had a referendum, so look, 35% of the citizens were against joining the EU, that's a higher percentage of the votes you won in the elections. So I speak for more citizens than you do here on your party behalf. You formed a government, but with MOST, with minorities and other smaller coalition partners. Without it, the question is whether your party would achieve that result. And what I regret to say is also the fact that you yourself will, very quickly, as you have turned against all your former prime ministers, probably turn against your prime minister, and then you will probably use the same arguments that I used. These are the same prophetic words that are not difficult to understand because we all know that your party president actually used a vacuum that was created in the way it came into existence. You wished him luck, you believed, some Croatian citizens may have believed, but the sobering will be painful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26601	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26602	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you said that EU policy is a policy of subsistence to banks and corporations. You asked the Government if we must be leaders in the ministry and in the implementation of this policy and you said that European policy is contrary to the interests of Croatian citizens. Now, look, you and I can be hundreds of times opposition in this House, you mentioned and the Croatian citizens themselves went to the referendum and decided whether they wanted Croatia in the EU or not. 35% were against it, but let's not forget 65% was for it. Therefore, we can criticize the government for using membership in the best way for the benefit of Croatian peoples and Croatian citizens. We can criticise her for such matters or whether she effectively and qualityly represented our interests in the creation of common European policies. I'm willing to participate in such a discussion. But we cannot call the government because Croatia is in the EU is obliged for citizens to implement European policy and represent these citizens in all institutions and all EU decision-making bodies. That's what we had a consensus on in Parliament, Mr Bacic said, so SDP stands by that consensus and we will consistently continue to respect such a policy and the will of citizens expressed in the referendum until it changes in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26603	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26604	Representative Klisovic, therefore, if Prime Minister Plenkovic has a rival in this assembly in his upcoming Brussels, it is certainly you. And so this shows one very obvious fact, which is that between HDZ and SDP there is actually no significant difference. This, however, is what you have now said that the Croatian people voted in a referendum why is this government of yours where you were a member of the banning all other referendums when you swear so much in such a manner of national declaration? Why didn't you allow Mrs Markic's referendum, the Vukovar Defence Station? Why, among other things, would they not allow a referendum on exiting the EU today? And here I am going to try to organise a referendum on leaving the EU and will you allow it? You will not, you will abuse the institutions, and you will ban such a referendum. At the time of the EU accession referendum, such fairy tales were told that we would travel, that we would have salaries, that we would all get jobs, there was not one critical opinion on public television that would be contrary to EU accession. And those who promoted the EU all know how they did it by being paid thousands and thousands of euros, rich Brussels salaries and other benefits, they were promised places in the administration both by the UN and in fact the entire referendum was directed today, which is unfortunately possible today that some idea of democracy is clearly given and in reality the money of the corporate banks in collaboration with the same-paid media is not allowed to discuss an open topic but is actually the result already well known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26605	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26606	Thank you, Your Honor. So there is a representative of Bunjac and a doctor of science who makes one critical reference to the policy represented by our Government and one of you will say that, Croatia will say by the will of the citizens to the EU referendum but forgets that the Constitution has been amended by our country because our Constitution protected our statehood and our sovereignty in a way that said that more than 50% of the total number of citizens must be to deprive our sovereignty, to enter into some other state communities, to enter some new state communities, to enter some new Yugoslavia. And then came gentlemen from HDZ, expert Vladimir Seks and he gallantly changed the Constitution in a way that no more than 50% of Croatian people must be to associate with some other countries. And what happened? You're talking about a referendum, so it was a dumpling referendum. And why is that? If 5 people had come out to that referendum of yours that you organised and that 5 people 3 were in favour, we 4 million would have been pushed into the EU. And then you give that lesson about I don't know the right to know about self-determination, human rights, democracy, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, and beware of which is an even worse paradox that Mr. Bunjac unfortunately did not point out, you have a local referendum on whether to build a golf course on Srđ, for example, a higher turnout is required, or more than 50% of the total number of voters must be against or for any decision to be valid. So in local referendums it takes more than 50% and in a referendum on loss of sovereignty there are 5 votes of 0.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26607	Thank you. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26608	Thank you, colleague Pernar. So you are right that Croatia has given up the works of its sovereignty by staying in the EU. We see this clearly from these reports, and from these laws that are already on the agenda today, we will see more. I would just like to briefly mention here that Croatia's sovereignty is very hard to gain, many people have lost their lives and lives to have a free Croatian state today. Read what they said about Croatian statehood Ante Starcevic and Stjepan Radic and you will realize that they would definitely not be for the EU today. Among other things, they can quote Stjepan Radic, who said: "Europe will not and should not help us, because it is difficult for one who is waiting from another's bag of bread." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26609	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26610	A respected colleague has criticised the prime minister for supporting the EU as a project. And then you mentioned the late first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman, that's his program. The last item of Franjo Tudjman's programme was Euro-Atlantic integration and NATO and EU entry. It's already been written to you by 89. So that's where the president of the Croatian government doesn't get any new aces out of his sleeve, that's our program since we were founded as a party. You talked about all the problems in the EU. Try to ask yourself a question where there's better health care on the globe, there's better education systems, there's better protection of workers, there's greater job safety, there's greater freedom in a democratic sense, there's greater freedom in a personal sense, anywhere on the globe of the Earth? Is it Latin America, is it North America, is it the Far East, is it Africa? There is no, there is no, no one went to the EU because they would glorify the project as a project but because they would try to live better and better. And in the end, if you were somewhere else as a political force organized and started your election trip, you wouldn't be there. You as a political option can only be in the EU, in all of these other places you would not even be allowed to register. They would be resolved within two days of the Far East, America or any place on the globe you include and claim that they might be better in the EU would not be as political forces for two days. You only have chances in the EU in the criteria and standards that the EU has made, of course, with the will of both Croatian people and Croatian political decisions written in the first programme of Dr Franjo Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26611	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26612	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Mesic, unfortunately for you, according to the World Health Organization report, the country with the world's best healthcare system is Cuba. So, to say that it's better for us I don't know, it just says that it's better there. Now I don't know, maybe you know better. But I'm reading official reports. The other thing you say that we wouldn't be there would be us. Well, no one can forbid me to live and act whether I'm in a party or not. Throughout the history of a small group of people you call villains, populists, demagoses and rebels changed the world. Well, even in Cuba, 12 people began to rebel, so as you can see, the results were in China, Russia. Always a small group of people. And we're running history just like it was in '89. As you say in the barracks, a small group of Croats began to create the Croatian state. And over time, here's what happened? It happened that these principles were in fact abandoned and that in fact Croatia was not what all those who in 1990 had an honest heart and with many ideals started to create a state. Those aren't my words. Ask your representatives and representatives of MOST and Croatian citizens, is this Croatia you dreamed of in 1990? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26613	My colleague Bunjac, I don't know that my colleague Mesic used the term that you are wrongdoers and so forth, so it's not right to say things he didn't say. A colleague, Mesic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26614	In breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 238, because an esteemed colleague simply did not tell the truth, because I do not call anyone wrongdoers. However, the European democratic cultural tradition allows for such attitudes as you do and as I do. It's certainly not a respected colleague's case in Cuba. Try it! As far as health care is concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26615	Let's not do this now! Comrade Mesic, let's not get into these polemics now. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26616	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bunjac, you have indeed made one claim that cannot stand and she is saddened that you are a representative in the Croatian Parliament and you say here that someone is not the Croatian Prime Minister or Croatian Prime Minister but that the Brooksel project is an insult to all of us who sit here because we had a session of the Parliament where Mr Plenkovic was just at his government and became Prime Minister. 45 of them were against it in this House, and three were restrained. And that is the basis of Croatian democracy, those are rules that must be respected. Your verbal acrobatics are allowed and I think in the past two months you have managed to offend all of us here very thoroughly, all those who do not please you and even say not to worry about whether someone is the president of the state, whether the Prime Minister is showing one level of disrespect for everything. This can be understood by a certain kind of anarchism or by what you seek as a party. If someone project Brussels is what to call the Living Wall and whose project are they? Are you the Moscow project and their policy or one policy we used to listen to? Us and the Russians 150 million. Is that it? What does this project look like? Is this project falsifying all kinds of documents? Is that what this project contains? Is it when the Hall of the Living Wall chooses, when the Chief Board of the Living Wall chooses the Assembly or the Assembly of the Living Wall of three members chooses the General Board of five members. Should we live in this world? Are these yellow envelopes that don't have owners dealing with certain institutions now? So there are people and perhaps even in this House who allow their hairs to operate on their heads? That conspiracy theories are the solution to many problems? But give yourself a little more courtesy and you're not the moral verticals of this society as much as you want to present yourself to all of us here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26617	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josip Boric, for the replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26618	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, please have an audio recording of my speech. In my speech, there was absolutely nothing offensive, nothing vulgar, unlike the representatives present here and the employees of the Parliament who compared the Living Wall members with medical diagnosis and with different other ugly expressions. So, to argue that, therefore, the prime minister works more in the interest of Brussels than in the conduct of national interests is fully legitimate, so political dialogue and claims and I remain behind it. So I am firmly convinced that such a prime minister and such a government will not bring any real breakthroughs to Croatian citizens, and at least it will contribute to the achievement of those dreams on which Croatia's 1990 ideal was created. So I ask you that if you want to rephrase something to me that you're using arguments, not to abuse the data you've learned at some ministry below, therefore some other disqualifications that show that you have no arguments but we're actually right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26619	I thank the esteemed Mr. Bunjec for his reply. The next call came from prominent counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26620	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. Well, your colleague Bunjac has expressed his indignation that we are members of the EU and you asked us if we know that our citizens live precisely because of it. I would ask you, do you know, can you assume that only our citizens would have lived if it wasn't for a number of projects that were realised by European means? Do you know how much on these projects has been hired by our architects, designers, builders not only engineers but also auxiliary workers, how much of our machinery has been activated here, produced, sold different materials from construction materials to those equipment? Do you know that our numerous citizens have been given a water network thanks to these resources, that we are building sewers, and that is why we want to protect our seas, that it is not a threat to our tourism? Do you know they're in the construction of a number of schools, kindergartens? How would our citizens live if it wasn't for these projects? How many jobs are there, how many personal incomes are secured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26621	I thank my esteemed colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. The answer of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26622	Honorable MPs. Croatia has said these things that it allegedly got, and it has, paid itself. So we pay in the EU budget four billion kuna and then we get four billion kuna back and now it's like some big profit. You say that EU funds build schools, I honestly didn't see that school, at least not in a larger number, but I saw that many Croatian students don't even have to pay for the school kitchen, I saw that parents have to pay for the school book, I saw that when the 1st year begins, and parents can't sleep out of worrying and winding up how to buy school books, how to pay for transportation, how to send students to Zagreb, where they will rent an apartment. I've seen teachers who don't want to raise their wages even though the contract signed by the Government guaranteed it, I've also seen schools that don't have basic equipment, let's just say I don't know about teaching as they may have calculated or some other aids that have been present long ago in many schools in Europe. I am firmly convinced that Croatia has enough, so we have enough food and living space and conditions to equip schools. We do not need EU policy, but the more EU policies have put us in this situation. The moment this unfortunate accession process began, that moment began this crisis from which no end can be seen. And I'm afraid it's only a matter of time before we get to the Greek script, and that's that we're going to have to give out islands, that we're going to have to give out airports, national parks, that we're going to cut pensions, and then you're also probably going to say that we're anarchists that we don't know what we're talking about, etc. Time will tell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26623	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for his reply. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26624	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President Brkic, a respected counterpart of Bunjac. When I came today, I had no intention of responding to the first speaker, but I will react immediately because I feel it is necessary. When I thought about whether we should do what I am doing now, which is that after every European Council I come before the Croatian Parliament and talk about what is being discussed at these meetings, what are the topics, how important they are, how much they have consequences for Croatian citizens, some have expressed a small dilemma we will open up a political space in this way, let's say to people like you, to use a speaker for the Croatian Parliament for your political goals, to demonstrate demagogy, to quote you, to pulsism, but above all a profound, astounding ignorance and not informativeness. This is what may be the main message that the Croatian public needs to hear and need to know. One of my key tasks as a politician, but also as president of the government and president of the party, will be a political, argumentated battle and debate against you and your politics and your demagogy, your ignorance and your delusion of many Croatian voters. That will be one of the key goals, believe me. And that's why I'm convinced this is useful and good and people need to hear it and need to know it. It's okay business methods are like that, dialogue is needed and dialogue is good. But do you dare tell me I'm someone's project, based on what, the basis of which legitimacy? I who also won the mandate for the Croatian Parliament a few years ago and for the first time for the European Parliament and for the second time for the European Parliament and the party and won the elections in circumstances that did not look that way. I even have a mandate in the city council, I have all three possible legitimate mandates that you can have local, national and European, one I've given up now. You slow down the legitimacy of Croatian voters to me and dare declare me someone's project. No, you won't. You will not convince the Croatian public or any commentators, whether they come from the media or come from other political parties. And I'm going to fight this battle very hard and very bold. A level of rude intention to tell you that my visit to Ukraine caused damage to Croatia, based on what, based on what? If we had led the policy of the 90th policy of the first President Tudjman in the way you are now suggesting Croatia would not be complete, Croatia would not be independent. To use the experience of peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov in a country like Ukraine, for Donetsk and Lugnansk, what is wrong with that? Who can object to that? I've been taught media hybrid communication and warfare, perhaps the Croatian public isn't but it won't pass, it won't pass, and I'm not impressed by you or those who comment like that. As regards HDZ policy, 90th policy, EU accession policy and European values. Well, that was one of the main tasks and objectives of the first Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tuđman, one of the main goals. He who is well, you have, as far as I understand the historian, recognized the role of small peoples in the historical context and context of integration and very well believed the importance of independence and independence and the importance of joining Western democracies and the values shared by them. We, Mr. Bunjac, have not noticed you in the 90s or last decade, have worked 20 years to achieve EU membership and the North Atlantic Alliance. I have heard of you then, neither have I seen you, nor have I heard of any of you of the Living Wall, nor of any of you. I ran a referendum campaign in 2011 which is very legitimate, which is very much in line with the law and which won 66 to 33. I would run it again not because it is someone's project but because it is a will, the majority will of Croatian people, Croatian voters, those who trust those who are able to manage rationally, responsibly, and not to you who are just spreading disinformation. You've now told everyone here that the health system is globally the best in Cuba. Here's the minister of foreign affairs, has little experience in the world globally, so let's have him tell you later on about the achievements and how the country was perceived. I think that's how you and the many other statements you're saying buried yourself in terms of argumentation and credibility. You will not convince a large number of Croatian people to do so. And the claims that you are comparing yourself with Radic, that you are comparing yourself with the first Croatian president and HDZ are so funny and so amazing in my court that you are even able to say that it can only pass on your little coffee circles. But in the Croatian public and in Croatian politics, it will not go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26625	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andre Plenkovic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26626	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to return to the topic that I have replicated and in the opening work when we talked about the report in front of the European Parliament, the report by Marie Joao Rodriguez on the European pillar of social rights that you said you were uninformed. But obviously the entire EPP group is not uninformed and that the truth this report will not be binding but will probably find documents in front of the European Parliament already in March according to this report which will be binding. But what I would like to draw your attention to is that some members of the EPP more concrete colleague Petir said that, and I am now quoting her statement "Croatia is a representative in the European Parliament Marijana Petir did not participate in making amendments to the Maria Joao Rodriguez report on the European degree of social rights adopted in December 2016 on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and, in addition, did not sign the amendment or vote for them." I do not think that it is a legitimate issue because of what I said before, because of the arguments that I have asked at the time whether the HDZ position is either the HDZ president's position to support these EP amendments and what will ultimately reflect not only on the social security of Croatian citizens who are part of the EU, but citizens in all EU members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26627	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for the replica. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26628	I can't take the impression that you're on an e-mail or text with your colleague, Borzan. I think they're dealing with their own in Strasbourg today because that's how this information works for me, a little bit of you don't have it. I didn't text or email my colleague Shuic to the head of our delegation. I'm going to do it tonight and I'm going to tell you the answer because you obviously have time. And what you just said had nothing to do with what I was responding to the exposure of my previous colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26629	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Next to the replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26630	Thank you, Chairman. Well, first of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Plenkovic for debated here with us and for expressing his views and views. And I must say that his argument to me as a critic of his policy sounded very good and very convincing. However, the key question is whether this argument is valid? And I don't think so, and I'll tell you why. Because President Tudjman certainly didn't want us to be back in the state union tomorrow with neighbouring Serbia whose EU accession you support. And the EU is essentially going towards federalisation and a macro-state is being created with a common currency, a common military, a common parliament, common laws, etc. etc. And for this very reason, the president of Croatia's first Franjo Tudjman to protect the sovereignty of our country has created a constitution that requires I repeat more than 50% of the total number of voters to support Croatia's accession to another state community. And then what happened? Francis Tudjman dies, comes, Franjo Tudjman who spoke against the black, yellow and green devils, against the Masons, against those who team up with the black devil to undermine her country, her meaning sovereignty. And all of a sudden it means what's going on? Franjo Tudjman is dying, new people are coming to HDZ, HDZ policy is changing, the Republic of Croatia Constitution is changing, ideas are emerging about abolishing the borders of the Republic of Croatia, meaning they are opening up. There are ideas about the elimination of our currency. There are ideas about sharing sovereignty and many other ideas that actually lead to the separation of our country's statehood and ultimately the abolition of our country's right to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26631	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. The Prime Minister's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26632	It seems to me like you two are competing or bidding on who will be more brilliant in knowledge, information, knowledge of law, constitutional law, European law, international law, division of exclusive competences, shared competences at EU level. The Croatian public must understand that you don't know what you're saying, that you're saying things that aren't standing, that are incorrect, that are unjust, that I even have to admit in democracy, that I give you the right to speak, say whatever you want, but someone has to answer you. What you have been doing here for months is not good, it is not useful for the hygiene of public debate in Croatia. No, it's not Mr. Pernar. You're saying now that this will lead to the disintegration of the Croatian state. What are you talking about? What did you swear here as a representative at the Croatian Parliament? What did you swear to the Constitution of a country that doesn't exist or that doesn't exist tomorrow? I'm actually looking forward to this, and I'm going to come to the Croatian Parliament every time for arguments to convince me what I'm saying, because I know what I'm saying, because I've been preparing for years to get in a position to get this responsibility. I didn't come here overnight or accidentally or falsely in the campaign and attract those who might not have had time to hear everything that was true. I ran that referendum campaign right on the truth, just to suppress misinformation. Because parties like your ruin the referendum in France, the Netherlands, Greece, the United Kingdom. He won't be here! And second time you'll get fewer votes and less seats in the election, I guarantee it. This will be one of the key tasks of my government – the fight against populism and demagogy that is untrue, unfounded and deeply disinformed by the Croatian public. That's not going to work for me, be sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26633	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. The following came to the replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26634	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I don't know, you might be used to people taking advantage of you. I won't take advantage of you. I didn't come to this Parliament to nod you, nor did I come here to have you text me to change your mind as you wish. I know exactly who I'm talking to right now, maybe unlike you. I have before me Croatian citizens who suffer and who know that their problems are not solved. And therefore, I speak for them. You, of course, have the right to your opinion, but I appreciate mine more. You're asking how I dared? How dare you at the HDZ Council in June to say that the party is not the hostage of one man. How dare you? If that president you called was elected with 91,000 votes, he had absolute legitimacy. How dare you challenge that legitimacy? So that's why you've been doing what I'm doing right now, and what we're doing, you're estimating it as some kind of illegal act, circusing, ignorance. What makes you think I have ignorance? You say that in the 1990s, Croatia wanted to join the EU and it did not exist in the 1990s. The Croatian Union was formed in 1992. This is the knowledge with which you have and with which you want to shut my mouth. Therefore, come to this House, we will talk, and let Croatian citizens decide who will be, who will receive the votes, who won't, who will be buried as you say. It sounds very like this, you know, there's a little connotation that I'm not saying right now. Oh, no? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26635	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. The reply to the replica, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26636	Didn't you talk about dictatorship? Did I hear you correctly? This was under quotes. I don't think anything of you. I wish you a lot of health, a lot of vulnerabilities, but first of all, I wish you a little bit of information. If you have obtained a doctorate somewhere and if you are able to tell the Croatian Assembly that 1990. The EU did not exist. Was there perhaps a European Community? What were we marking here two days ago? Who confessed to us 25 years ago on January 15th? Mr. Bunjac, a little Thomas Spain Common sense has it? Wait a minute, a little common sense. It would be useful for you, for your party, for your integrity as a politician, as someone who performs responsibly in the Croatian Parliament. You can say what you want, but I assure you you will not get the trust of those who will at least be minimally informed, the minimum that will be informed, and I will do everything I can to ensure that most Croatian people are well informed and that they know who they give their trust and why. Cheap points, demagogy, pulsism, untrues won't work for you, you just won't get away with it. And don't compare your performance here as a representative at the Croatian Parliament as my political speech at our General Assembly. It doesn't matter. We both have the right to speak. But I'm here to answer your arguments that you're wrong. And that instead of thoroughly reading the conclusions of the European Council and the reports that we are sending you here and that you appreciate the dialogue on this, do not misinformed the Croatian public that the Prime Minister is not working in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. My party and my Government and this parliamentary majority work very well. In whose interest do you work, ask yourself a little question, and with what purpose do you go to public and communication space like this? That's what I'm interested in, that would be interesting to know. Here you were asked here by some fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26637	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26638	Thank you very much. Your Honor. I know that your style is not what we listened to on the other side, and I think it was good that you came out and you reacted to this kind of attitude of one club because we all here in the House have to stand in the way of this lowness that appears as some kind of foundation or some kind of policy that needs to be implemented into a Croatian being in the Croatian people, and even in this House, to bring it down in public eyes as one home that we all talk about is tall, that it is most important, and that we behave in the way that individual representatives behave. We have recently had one opportunity here where we also met in a similar situation and ignorance of the Living Wall against the knowledge of a HAZU Academy, where colleagues from the Living Wall attacked Mr. Rudan that he knew nothing, that he had nothing to do, that he had no idea of anything. When Mr. Rudan came out in the closing word they ran out then, they couldn't meet with their ignorance. And he neatly referred them to the libraries of the academy itself, as well as the Parliament to learn something about Croatian history, but also about the entire political system. Because what was the worst thing about all this? What someone is contesting your legitimacy, and we know that the rules exist, and I've said how many votes you've won as Prime Minister for your government and they're doing it daily. And who challenges legitimacy? The man who came in here as a replacement. And I'm a replacement instead of a man who became a minister, he came in here as a replacement instead of a lady who signed the list and faked a certain title that no media house could find a diploma, for example. And he's moralizing us here instead of telling his colleague Pernar, you can't wire a student's x-ray in the dorm room to eat cheaply as a parliamentary representative because you have enough income to pay for a more expensive lunch than you did yesterday, so don't do it. It's this sort of moral part where he should influence his collages. But no, they always give others moral lessons, and they are actually very low and they try to bring it into Croatian society. I think it's the duty of each of us to get in the way of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26639	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for the replica. Mr. Ivan Pernar's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26640	Well, I think Mr. Boric is a little bit. Well, sir, allow me to say please, if you may. [[Invadica Brkić: Mr. Pernar which article please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26641	Please refer to the Rules of Procedure first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26642	Article 235 means I think he actually replicated me and my colleagues, Bunjc, and he responded to the replica of Prime Minister Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26643	You've abused the Rules of Procedure's breach institute. Thank you very much. Replication response. There isn't. Thank you very much. The following came to the debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the esteemed Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And on behalf of the SDP Club, I welcome the Prime Minister and Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his opening statement. Unfortunately, as last time in the European Council's report, we heard more about what happened in 2016, what they said and did during 2016, including on the European Council, and less about what on behalf of all of us Croatian citizens presented by our Prime Minister. And the citizens of this country have the right to know which views represent their example on such an important body as the European Council. The newspapers brought into Croatian politics by the Croatian president, I don't think they are welcome and that citizens do not support it majorityally, and that is, above all, disowning the rights of the media and citizens to know where they were, who they met with and what the highest state officials said on behalf of Croatian citizens. Citizens, parliamentarians, media have the right to ask and know what they say and what the highest government officials commit to. It is offensive for the entire Croatian public if it is declared a mobilising of state officials. The government of Zoran Milanovic won the first award in Europe under the Open Authority Partnership initiative to facilitate access to state-run services for citizens. It was the most transparent Croatian government that set new high standards of transparency in Croatian politics, which in turn gave up all HDZ governments including the current one whose agenda remains a secret until the very beginning of the government's session, and consultations with the interested public are trying to avoid even when the legislation is prescribed. On the European Council held in December as well as throughout 2016 there were topics of interest for Croatia. Migration, Ukraine, Russia, European defence in light of transatlantic relations triggered by Mr Trump's election as the new American president, Syria, Brexit. Migration continues to shift focus from the Balkan route to the Mediterranean. Despite warnings from architects... with Turkey that the situation in Turkey is a time bomb that can explode at any moment and flood Europe with a new million migrants and refugees. On behalf of the DSP club, I asked the prime minister during his first report from the European Council, a question I did not get an answer to, and I will ask him again on behalf of the club. Does the Government support the shift of the EU's focus from the Balkan route to the Central Mediterranean or to migrations from Africa that have been recorded at European Council meetings during 2016. What does the government think about doing on this particular issue during Malta's presidency, which is interested in this shift of focus on the Mediterranean route? The SDP club also asks the prime minister what is the government's position on Austria's new migration policy initiative, which Austria is asking to become a common European policy? The simplified proposal is to prevent migrants and refugees from entering the EU area. The Austrian model would, for example. involved stopping European warships of refugee boats in the Mediterranean their return to the area of uncertainty i.e. countries from which they come or if it is not possible to reroute to third countries where refugee immigration centres will be set up to finance the EU and EU entry requirements are processed. The defence of the EU's external border, which is also the Croatian border with southeastern neighbours, has been a fundamental goal of this initiative, which is also approved by the use of the necessary force towards migrants and refugees. Does the Croatian Government support Austria in this matter? Yes or no? Please respond without excessive nuances and double connotations and delicacy. Just yes or no. The SDP club also asks a question that we haven't received an answer since the government, which is whether the government supports the concept of so-called. flexible solidarity, which has been advocated by four countries and each Member State contributes on a voluntary basis in accordance with its own capacity to provide migrants by refusing to implement the set European quotas. And what is the government's position on the concept of the so-called concept? effective solidarity as an alternative to the Dublin Protocol which has been presented by Slovakia and which is that countries which do not want to see refugees and migrants on their territory can only contribute financially to their care elsewhere. Malta, Greece and Italy are not acceptable to these countries because they fear that these refugees will remain in their territory. Hungary and Austria also do not want to accept, they do not like this concept because they do not want the entry of refugees and migrants into the EU area at all and their requirements should be processed in third countries. But what is the position of our government, what is the position of the Republic of Croatia? In an Austrian newspaper, the president publicly said it is against refugee quotas for EU member states. I am saying, "Every country needs to decide for itself how many people they will receive." Did it consult with the government, is it government position or president leading one of her foreign and European policies different from the government? The SDP representative club is also interested in assessing whether the government is the same as the president that we received the quote "Wrong Refugees". Are the children of refugees who started attending the elementary school in Zagreb the other day the wrong refugees? Are we going to discriminate against refugees by sex, and accept one sex and refuse the other sex? Don't refugee children have the right to family unity? In addition, according to UNHCR data from Syria, 51% of men and 49% of women were avoided. And out of the total number of refugees, only 25% are men between the ages of 18 and 59, so they're militaryly capable. The European Council discussed an integrated European defence and the creation of a defence market for military equipment. Some Member States such as Poland and the Baltic States do not support this concept of the development of European defence, fearing that this will limit NATO's contribution to European security. What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this issue? And the SDP club is particularly interested in the government's position on the statements of the elected President of America Trump that NATO is an outdated organisation. How does the government interpret this statement in the context of the US commitment to the defence of NATO members from the EU that we are? Whether Croatia will need to further increase the military budget due to changes in the international environment due to potential changes in allied policies and the potential establishment of an integrated European defence. With regard to Ukraine, the European Council has been able to find a way to satisfy the Netherlands' concerns about two fundamentals, the EU's potential commitments to defend Ukraine and its eventual accession to the EU and thus to ratify the agreement with Ukraine. It's a positive development. But the SDP club is interested in whether the prime minister's foreign policy initiative in Ukraine is also developing positively or completely dead after it has damaged relations with Russia? In the SDP, we see the problem with the prime minister's initiative primarily because of the timing and the way it was implemented. The government did not define Ukraine as an foreign policy priority and the move went to Kiev at the very beginning of its mandate, immediately after its trip to Sarajevo, with the BIH defined as an external political priority. He left two days before meeting high-level representatives of Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine, so-called Standard format. To try to remove obstacles to the implementation of an agreement from Minsk. Without previous diplomatic preparations in which it was intended to provide support to these four countries for a high-quality and successful contribution from the Republic of Croatia to the implementation of the Mines Agreement, this initiative has a weak chance of living in practice and bringing political points to Croatia in Berlin, Paris and Moscow, and to the Croatian economy new jobs, for example, in Russia. It is equally confusing that after the government agreed to extend EU sanctions to Russia, the president of the state publicly advocates in an interview with the Austrian list "Kleine Zintung" to stop competing with Russia so that we should discuss with Moscow how to stop the war in Syria? In that interview, the president also publicly asks where the common European, foreign and security policy is. And we all know together that this policy is created by EU Member States, and thus by the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who, through the Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents us in the Foreign Affairs Council and the Prime Minister of the European Council. Does the president know what positions Croatia is fighting for in creating a common foreign and security policy and whether it supports them or is it just the views and positions of the government? Its words make it clear that it does not know or support what makes Croatia an additional source of harmful confusion in international relations and proves to be an untrustworthy partner in the EU. Mr. Prime Minister, does Croatia have two foreign policies for one government and one president? You are aware that this basically means that Croatia does not have one single state foreign policy. With this uncoordinated co-creation of foreign policy, you have created only confusion in both the domestic and international public, thus jeopardising our country's reputation in the international public. And since there's still time, let me just have one dipression. In your stand here in the assembly today, you said that one of the priorities of your government and you were fighting against populism and demagogy. I support you in that. It's my political Agenda, and I'm going to try all my beings on that line to perform in my political work. But tell the MPs and their party that you guarantee them that they will get fewer votes in the next election sounds a little bit like a threat especially to a man who has the highest authority in the country and I think it comes out of the framework of the parliamentary and democratic standards that we want to cultivate in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26645	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26646	Compliment your colleague that the former government of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic has been the most transparent government since the Croatian government. You may have thought of this as a European grant in agriculture intended for small OPGs in the Slavonia area that have arrived in very different hands, in the hands of tycoons that have tycoon evicted 50,000 people from Slavonia. There's an empty Slavonia left. Or maybe you mean by the INA report from Cynthia Petrovic who was not bad and who was with your leader. Or maybe you're thinking about repairing Croatian fighter planes, i.e. which are sent to Croatian combat planes sent to Ukraine for remont. I don't see yours in your presentation any great transparency of the former government in which Zoran Milanović was, so can you explain exactly where this visible transparency was and what the effects of your transparency on Croatian agriculture, on the Croatian industry, on preventing young people from leaving rural areas so I would be glad to either investment and projects such as the Pelješki Bridge. Is that starting to build? How long did it all go together? And then I'll say, that you've been transparent, we have effects on Croatia, but we know that more and more young people than that desert transparency is leaving Croatia, and more and more we have empty spaces where, of course, someone will eventually move in, and that's all because of that transparency that has been growing and your government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26647	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. Replication response, dear colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26648	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bulj, I don't need your recognition whether the Government of Zoran Milanovic was transparent or not. It's just that your confession wouldn't have had that kind of relevance that you're calling yourself. The transparency of Milanovic's government was given by 23 international independent evaluators. Even within a global initiative that we were also a member of the Open Authority Partnership Croatia received the first prize in Europe as the state that made the biggest shift during Milanovic's Government on the transparency of public authorities' work primarily on the transparency of government work. It could not have happened in Milanovic's government that the agenda was not publicly published and that the government did not know including a session of the closed part of the government's session. Transparency is exactly the best preventive element and a cure to fight corruption. If there were any deviations anywhere, we'll have an opportunity to discuss it. No law has come to Milanovic's government without having as its integral part a summary of the public debate, a consultation with an interested public. So that's what I'm talking about when I talk about transparency. The journalists did not run out of questions, and they themselves declared the government one of the most transparent as opposed to this government they say is quite closed. So here I am talking about the standard of transparency and international evaluators that established it at the time of Milanovic's government. We've set a high standard. I expect all Croatian governments to follow that standard or possibly raise it even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26649	Thank you very much for your response to the esteemed colleague Klisovic. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26650	... Dear counterpart Klisovic, that I will indeed quote at the very beginning of the report you said the government of Zoran Milanovic is one of the most transparent governments in the EU. [[Specially enabled.]] So I will only talk about one detail that is still the point of the agenda today, and it would be good with a number of questions you asked the President of the Croatian Government that, in order to show explicitly how transparent the Government of Zoran Milanovic was, I ask you a question, how many times has the Prime Minister submitted this type of report to this High Croatian House during the four years of your rule? In other words, how many times has a report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held during its four-year term? So please an exact answer and a clear answer in the figure to judge Croatian citizens about transparency. But citizens have also tried the basis for the government’s choice of transparency, and what you said about the other deviations will likely be known in due time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26651	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blazen Boban, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26652	Thank you. My dear colleague, I see that you are very insolent, your possible and your party, which the international evolutions have just found that Milanovic's government has made the biggest shift in the area of transparency in Europe and has therefore awarded the first prize. Therefore, I repeat once again, it is not up to the decision on you and your individual opinion. I don't think you'll ever praise Milanovic or the SDP government. It just doesn't belong to your political agenda. And it would be good to have a little more objectivity when we talk about other Croatian governments and I am able and I am always ready to commend every Croatian government when it deserves it in those elements of its work that it deserves. Well, in the end, it's our Croatian government. It's not some foreign government out there, it's our government. And Prime Minister Milanovic filed as many reports in the form required by the law as required by the law, and in that sense he did not sin once on the law or break the law that regulates it. And you, if it's any different, deny me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26653	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Klisovic, I think you have made it very clear that unfortunately we have two foreign policies that do not have too much contact with each other. But when we talk about a European policy that is no longer foreign but is very European, so I would dare say in some way our internal policy, then I think that social and labour rights should be very much concerned. And I think we should be concerned about minimum wage for a decent life, I think it's about regulating the right to maternity leave and parental leave, and I think we're concerned about exploiting concepts like zero-hour contracts, flexible working hours, and anything else that would go wrong for workers. We are not vaccinated by decisions taken in the European Parliament, and we are also aware of this in Parliament, our prime minister should also be aware of the foreign and European affairs minister who sat next to him. It is believed that information is not good, but dear colleagues and colleagues have been informed primarily by the unions, the Union of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia and the Centre for Pension Studies addressed the public according to this. One of the addresses of this union memo is also the Prime Minister. I have informed myself from the media that I have finally informed myself from the European Parliament's representatives. But I think that in our work as a national parliament, we need to connect more and more with the European Parliament because decisions are made there that are very much relevant to our citizens, and they concern us as states, as well as policies that we will have to take. That is why, just like you, I would like to hear concrete answers to specific questions from foreign policy, but from the European policy of priorities that we have and which we need to have, and I think again, the social and labour rights of our citizens who are EU citizens, are certainly one of my priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26655	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26656	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You're right, Mr. Hajdukovic. Sustainable development of each country, and the EU also implies not only economic development, but side by side with it to go and social development. The European Pillar of Social Rights is something we should take special care of. A minimum wage for a decent life, so can anyone be against it? The SDP cannot and we propose such a law in this House. but we see some representatives from Croatia in the EU can parliament, and we can only tolerate them if they really didn't know what they were doing. Because minimum wage can't go below the poverty threshold so a man can live with dignity. Regulation of parental rights and maternity leave, so where is the policy that HDZ advocated by the government in the campaign. Family, education, mother must be with child we forgot or another unworthy promise with those seven offered by MOST. Therefore, these are extremely important issues, I can understand that the prime minister was not addressed to them because there are too many questions surrounding us daily, and I hope that his answer to Mr. Highukovic I believe in written form will rightly correct all the deviations that we have mentioned today during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26657	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kola Klisovic is good when the SDP advocates the government's work to promote the interest of the Republic of Croatia through EU membership and I also commend your replica to President Plenkovic when he spoke in the introduction of the report on the work of the European Council. But you remained party-colored when you measured the non-translucency of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic by the same march because you and part of the journalists did not publish the government's agenda enough in time. And you, as Deputy Minister of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, have not forgotten that the government has made a decision at a telephone session without any publication of the agenda to remove eight strategic Croatian companies from the list of strategic companies, including Končar, Croatia Airlines, Croat Insurance, Zagreb Airport, Luka Rijeka, Petrokemija and Croatia Bank. So, as transparent as it was, no one knew two days after that decision was made. I am also pleased that you are in favour of the transparency of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, but it would be better if elected representative and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic in this House defends the transparency of his government and not you as deputy minister at the time, even though you do not... the right to defend the interest of these Governments, but we would prefer to hear that from the then president who is now elected parliamentary representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26659	I thank my colleague, Branko Bacic, for the replica. And the answer of the esteemed colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I thank Mr. Bačić as president of the HDZ Club for accepting my debate where I praised certain things that the Government represents, simply it must be based on the referendum decision of our citizens. On the other hand, you say that Milanovic's government at a phone session that has not been announced previously decided to remove certain companies from the strategic list but did not sell them at a phone session. And let's remember what government did six or seven months ago. It's not SDP's, if I'm not mistaken, it was HDZ, led by HDZ in a coalition with the Most. So I'm not even sure that this is exactly what you said wasn't previously published, but I appreciate it. I wasn't consulted at that session or a phone call, but what I do know is that no repairable damage has been done, and when you go to sell what's been taken down, then you're in a much more harmful and worse situation for state interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26661	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Klisovic. A respectable colleague, Gordan Jandrokovic, appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26662	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've reported objectivity to protect some standards that should be equal for everyone in this assembly. So you paid tribute to the Prime Minister for threatening one of the parliamentary parties by saying they would get fewer votes. So that's why you surprised me, and that's why I reacted, because I would still remind you of the debate we had during today and all the insults, the ugly things, the manipulations, the insinuations that were directed right towards the Prime Minister and the Government and the ruling majority, and the presidents of the Republic did not choose words. Now, you've drawn a sword, then when you're answered in a similar way, then you're offended. So let's be a man, if you're already going into that kind of political struggle then accept that the other side is going to talk the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26663	I would like to thank my colleague, Vice President Jandrokovic, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26664	Thank you very much. I don't know a respected colleague, Jandrokovic. What made you think I was offended? And how can we prove our masculinity, so maybe you should say so, so I don't know if we can try and determine that. But in any case, you said wrongly, I did not accuse the Prime Minister of threatening a representative or his party, I said that what he said may sound like a threat especially when coming from a person in the state de facto has the highest authority, the greatest power in other words. So what I'm saying is that we're still watching what we're saying and the prime minister is really good at it and I don't know how he got away so far from guaranteeing the MP of one parliamentary party, you watch out for the word guarantee that he'll get less in the next election. It may be his wish, it may be my wish, but how can we guarantee it? You know, this word in my opinion has a sound of threats and as such is not welcome in the Croatian Parliament at least as far as I'm concerned about my standards of working in this assembly and in the political field of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26665	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Klisovic. The president of the government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26666	... Klisovic, dear Vice President Brkic, I will not refer to these last replicas. [[Specially enabled.]] I don't think it's necessary but a few aspects of what you emphasized in your speech on behalf of the club. First of all, the transparency of the government's work, so let's immediately demystify an insinuation that doesn't stand. What agenda of this government I run wasn't on the website in advance? One, one day that wasn't published the day before, or maybe you want to say the information concerning government decisions, which are politically important, to be put on a routine, technically on the Internet at 9 or 10 o'clock, and then the public reads about what the government is going to decide already on the portals at 10:30 or 11 o'clock? You think that's wise? So you're a politician, you choose a way when you're going to say something and when you're going to communicate. I've decided as Prime Minister, and behind that, I'm saying that important political information that has the character of what's called if you want to make an exclusive announcement in the media jargon at the government's meetings and publish them? The government's agenda will be known in advance. The government's work plan is already online for 6 months, from January to June at exactly an hour. In principle, every Thursday at 10, except when the meetings of the European Council are held. All documents that can be public, which are public are public. Therefore, I remove entirely any insinuation on the closure of the work of this government. I keep talking to the media every day, I don't choose questions when I'm going out, I don't ask MPs for questions at the current morning, I don't want anyone to ask me anything unless they want to, and they think it's important. I want to hear questions from the opposition who's here to control the executive government and the government. When it comes to foreign policy and migration and solidarity policies, my position is quite clear. Solidarity that in its fullness, is not flexible, is not effective. Croatia has accepted certain principles. We have an obligation as EU members to submit part of the responsibility and part of the burden. What is going towards our economic strength is that our population is ready to accept and that is the policy framework I stand for. I also want us to control the border with all the resources at our disposal, and the physical obstacles in the event of a major crisis will be the last option I will advocate as Prime Minister, quite clearly. When it comes to foreign policy and your reference to Ukraine, why did I go to Ukraine as Prime Minister? Because they called me. I was called by the President of the Republic of Ukraine, called by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, called by the President of Parliament, called me, just on the day of the third anniversary of the beginning of the EuroMayan with many reasons and with many convictions and there I went as a friend and with the aim of accomplishing three tasks that are important for both Ukraine and Croatia. The first is to help develop our economic relations. The Economic Forum had nearly 300 people. ... Croatian economy and Ukrainian economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To convey our experience to them the freshest and most important part of the implementation of the Association Agreement. Who can do this better and more effectively than we can do throughout the European Union. And third, to offer them an export product on which you too, as I did then as a diplomat at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and counterpart Jandroković and colleague Kovac and colleague Stier worked, which is a peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov. Let the voice of one who has something against the death of fewer people in Ukraine? It was a message with which I went to Kiev and which was well accepted and which was well accepted in Brussels, and I do not accept the insinuation of those who reject words and messages and claim that it has damaged relations with Russia. For what? In what way? I've initiated to arrange the appointment of an ambassador to Russia as an extraordinary step ahead of anyone else to send him there and establish relations. What other foreign policy issues do and co-ordination with the president, coordination exists, we talk. It is a unique foreign policy run by this government and you think very well you know the provisions of the Croatian Constitution is clear. We are taking part in consultations in the design and implementation, policy and internal and external waters of the Government with responsibility, not fearing and without difficulty with difficult decisions and with rapid reactions. Everything we've done in the first three months of government, and they'll be marked these days, tomorrow it seems to me. There is a lot of it, we have a kind of small acquis that we have done in just 90 days and at this rate we will continue without any legal walk and without any drowsiness but engaged in the program for which we have gained confidence in this Croatian Parliament. When the opposition has suggestions I am willing to listen to them and I am much more open and transparent than your Government who has been and had its chance for 4 years, and respect for the institutions of the Croatian state shows your former leader and former Prime Minister in one yet unlived way in our political scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26667	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26668	Thank you very much and thank you, Prime Minister, for answering only some of my questions asked. I know it's not possible in five minutes, but I hope we hear the answers to other questions. The position he expressed on the principle of solidarity in the migration policy falls short of those statements made by the president, and I have warned that if we want to have a single foreign policy, we must promote it in the same way both public and partners. When it comes to the transparency of the government's work, you know there are standards on how to publish the agenda. When is the agenda published? So all of this exists as good practices and as standards. It is not left to the Prime Minister to announce when they think it should and thus reduce the time for the public to be directed to prepare for the debates that follow in the government or for documents that will be in front of ministers. Then there's a little room for manipulation. Let's do what we give later, and we'll shut up with a huge amount of human material, so no one will be willing to read it. Put on time, leave time for people to inform themselves so that they can competently and informedly monitor government meetings. As far as Ukraine is concerned, I've never told anyone from the SDP that we have a major problem with the political messages that were carried there. Therefore, primarily promoting the Croatian economy or consulting on how to apply Croatian relevant experiences. But we said that the problem with the way that the whole good idea came into question. Why did the Prime Minister not send his envoy or his minister to the states of Norman form, in all four, France, Germany, Russia, Ukraine indicated what the prime minister is going to do in Ukraine. He tried to win for such support precisely by those countries in the International Community dealing with the issue of Ukraine in such a way that we got their support I think the initiative would live and have very good effects on both the political and economic images in Croatia. This is how you say Russia, so yes, so what more will we say if the Ambassador of Russia to Zagreb, so the authorised official of the Russian state in Croatia, said that they had strained their relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26669	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26670	Col. Klisovic, did you read the Minsk Agreement? Come on, honestly, how many dots are there first? ... And you don't know. [[You can't hear it.]] You don't know? ... Tell me, do you remember the catalogue of the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Poduna? [[You can't hear it.]] Remember the establishment of trust, the ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons, the transfer of financial flows, the demining, the return of refugees, the organisation of elections in occupied areas? Does that sound familiar to you? Remember. ... Bravo. [[You can't hear it.]] And you tell me now that if you did a test and removed the titles of the catalog of what was made in the reintegration of the Podun and the agreement from Mine, few would at first sight change the font, the time and even the language knew exactly what it refers to and what part. That's the point. So you honor me with the methodology, to me that, so let's just say, I know a little bit more about the relations and the situation in Ukraine than the others here, because I've been there 12 to 15 times in the role that I had before, I've studied both history and relationships and the nature of conflict and the context of relationships and I know the actors. I know these actors, I know people who deal with it every day. And I also know that we, and there is no one else on the European continent, can offer to help this process in the best way and towards Russia in the best way. Ten thousand people died there. You know why they died? For the purposes of the Association Agreement. When did the Mayan start? It began at the time when the former Ukrainian president ordered the then prime minister not to sign the Association Agreement. And that's the point of this European debate here. Ten thousand people died in those three years. A little respect, little feeling that we who only know what it is to be a victim of aggression, help a country that was on the road, be told, was the first member of the UN to recognize us. And that's the point, that's our specificity. You're trying to make it clearer, to be tighter so we don't lean on each other, not to listen to others in foreign policy, when you make an argumentary step, and then that's not good either. Then what's good? What kind of policy is good? That I also hear from those who criticise the European aspect of our policy and foreign policy. You just don't have both arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26671	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Plenkovic, for his reply. Next came the replica by the distinguished colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, you mentioned in your statement that in the last three months, this government has kind of gone in one good direction. By listening to this debate all morning, I can't help but think about the criticisms you've been given and I must say that everyone here must know and must hear that during the SDP government, social rights have been reduced. In particular, people with a disability of 500 kuna were taken from them, not to list everything else. And now here's the Living Wall that's been criticizing you all morning, not in these three months, suggested any constructive proposal not only for social rights, but for people with disabilities, but nothing else. So I'm glad you said that this government is going in a positive direction and that's what it feels like. It's what people with disabilities feel, it's what workers feel, it's what everybody feels. One constructive conversation with the unions that this government led we had no opportunity to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26673	Thank you, dear colleague Lukacic. The Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26674	Thank you very much to my colleague Lukacic. And it is my special honor to have been on the list together for elections for the Croatian Parliament in these last elections and to advocate your activities for the implementation of our programme, especially in that domain relating to the rights of persons with disabilities. But I'm going to refer to something else because, like all of us, you're talking about all the issues and that's how it should be, and that's social dialogue and relationship with the unions. So one of the first decisions of this government was to immediately encourage the work of the Economic and Social Council with our partners and trade unions and employers' associations. The dialogue was ongoing, we reached a very short-term agreement with the civil service unions. I repeat, Christmas is divided without budget rebalancing, minimum wage has been raised, a unilateral decision on equalising the rights of public service officers with those in the state service. These are all moves made in a very short time. And I repeat once again to the representatives of the union, we are open to dialogue, we want to find a solution in the frameworks that are possible with regard to the budgetary frameworks that are envisaged, knowing about the classy and very demanding process of negotiations. Our hand is out there, not only Minister Coric, but everyone else is ready for dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26675	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Plenkovic, for his reply. We're moving on to the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Vice-President Gordan Jandrokovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26676	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister and his associates. The Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government prescribes that once a year the Prime Minister submits a report to the Parliament on the European Council meetings held last year at the beginning of the first annual session. In addition to the annual reports, with the aim of informing the Parliament about the main preoccupations and directions of European policy at the level of the heads of state and government of the EU, the Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic introduced a new practice of regular reporting of the Croatian Parliament and the public at each meeting of the European Council. To remind you, the first presentation in the Croatian Parliament after obtaining confidence in the Government was just a report just after a meeting of the European Council held on 20 and 21 October 2016. The new reporting practice aims to further deepen the dialogue between the parliament and the government on issues that are in the focus of the EU. I welcome such practice on behalf of the HDZ Club because it is clear, and what today's debate shows is that the debate on European policies has not been approached sufficiently focused and systematically, there is no interest in European themes, and there is a lack of understanding of the importance of European policies in the social, economic and political life of the Republic of Croatia. This new practice and EU policy approach, we are sure that further dialogue between the Government and the Croatian Parliament will be deepened on strategic conclusions that are crucial for the adoption and implementation of concrete European policies. The purpose and importance of this report is of course also in meeting Croatian citizens with a general political and economic situation in the Union and with key measures and processes taken at the highest political level. Let me refer on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club to the main topics of the 2016 meeting of the European Council on migration, security and external relations. The main part of the debate at all five meetings held by the European Council was the migration policy, i.e. the strong migration pressure still present on the Western, Balkan and Mediterranean routes, which, in the context of security protection, imposes a continued implementation of a strong system of checks at the EU's external borders. The HDZ Club advocates that the so-called The Western Balkan route remains closed and will continue to co-operate with the Member States of Southeast Europe and with EU Member States in this light of the Republic of Croatia. An approach that includes co-operation with partner countries is considered to be the only one that is right to address migration challenges effectively and at the same time shows mutual respect between countries. Furthermore, we would like to praise the great progress made in identifying and registering unregulated migrants at the EU's external borders and preventing illegal migration and returning illegal migrants is crucial to establishing EU security. In a comprehensive response to the challenge of migration to the foreign-political dimension of the HDZ Club, it wants to highlight the importance of EU missions and operations in the framework of a common security and defence policy, in particular in the fight against migrant smuggling and human trafficking, and in contributing to the overall strengthening of security. The HDZ club supports the return of Schengen with the protection of external borders, which was also an emphasis on the Slovak presidency. The Schengen area is one of the most precious achievements of European integration and we would pay too much if we lost it. In the context of the protection of external borders, the operationalisation of the European Border and Coast Guard and the implementation of systematic checks at external borders are also very important. The European Commission is currently evaluating Croatia's accession to the Schengen area. To remind the EU's accession day, Croatia has accepted the entire Schengen acquis and in order to fully apply all the components of the Schengen acquis, so-called Schengen evaluation. For the full application of the Schengen acquis, a unanimous political decision must be taken at the level of the EU Council following a positive Schengen evaluation of the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to enter the Schengen area. Several competent authorities have been involved in the preparation for accession to the Schengen area but the Ministry of the Interior is crucial. To prepare and achieve Schengen standards in EU border management, the Republic of Croatia has made 120m euros available from a temporary Schengen instrument intended to improve standards in the control and control of the future EU external border. Furthermore, Croatia continuously contributes to Frontex operations and provides support for countries on the eastern Mediterranean and western Balkan routes and will continue to actively contribute to the work of the new agency as well as to the people and techniques. In the context of the internal security policy, the HDZ Club supports the implementation of all measures and activities in the area of preventing the use of a financial system for money laundering in order to finance terrorism through the establishment of supervision of financial flows and the prevention of misuse of a financial and non-financial system to cover up illegally acquired funds. Furthermore, the HDZ Representatives Club also supports activities and aimed at freezing the assets of persons suspected of funding terrorist activities where it is of particular importance in their detection of police cooperation, judicial authorities and third countries. In the context of external security, we want to commend the EU's efforts aimed at implementing the global strategy. We believe that the conclusions of the European Council on the implementation of the Global Action Plan and the conclusions on the implementation of the Warsaw Joint Declaration form a good basis for further activities aimed at strengthening the credibility and effectiveness of the common security defence policy, and in particular when it comes to providing answers to the latest types of security challenges. In particular, we would like to highlight the intervention of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the text of the conclusions of the European Council of 15 December 2016, taking into account the specific situation of some Member States, as well as the Republic of Croatia which are not yet in Schengen with external borders. The proposed interventions are accepted, showing that we can very actively contribute to the creation of security policy at the EU's external borders. Furthermore, we also welcome joint efforts to strengthen NATO-EU co-operation and co-ordination, particularly in the area of maritime security, as an example of its success, just participating NATO in stopping human trafficking in the Aegean Sea last summer. The EU and NATO share the same values and face the same challenges, so it is important to highlight the need for complementarity in NATO and EU defence efforts, which can certainly result in the overall strengthening of Europe's defence capacities. As far as external relations are concerned, it is really important to highlight the importance of European and foreign policy issues that we are discussing here in the Croatian Parliament, and this issue is becoming increasingly important and I believe that there is a awareness of all of us sitting here because it seems that the time of stability is behind us and that we are entering a period that is no longer predictable, for which we do not know how things are going to develop and I think that we should really think more intensively about our future when it comes to national security of the Republic. Of course, it requires all of us together and more responsibility, seriousness and preparation for what might be important in the future. There's a lot of signals, why he's saying this, there's a lot of signals that point to that kind of uncertainty and some threats. It was on its way and the European Council was also discussing Brexit. You also saw yesterday's address to Teresa Mei and the taking and announcement of taking very serious steps to get the United Kingdom out of the EU. The United Kingdom's exit from the EU single market is announced. It announces the conclusion of new trade agreements with the United Kingdom and with the EU, as well as with the United States, with Asian countries that bring the EU itself, especially the United Kingdom, into a new situation. In addition, we have major changes that occur in the United States with great impatience and expectation, and we expect the first concrete steps of the new American president. We followed his statements, his interview on the state of the NATO alliance, on the state of the EU, on the common European future. We have elections very close to France, Germany. The more complicated the relationship between the NATO alliance and Russia. Things are happening in our neighborhood that are also a hunch of possible instability. There is Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are relations between Serbia and Kosovo. It seems to me that the Croatian public is slightly underestimating the flagging of weapons coming from the highest state officials of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Republic of Serbia is no longer running away from mentioning weapons and new war conflicts. So the time we live in is changing, the time that lies before us is no longer what it was when we negotiated EU accession, when we joined the EU. We are facing periods of crisis, and we should be prepared for that, all of us sitting here together. So I would appeal on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives that indeed when we talk about such important topics, we avoid demagogy, to be aware that what we say here goes and comes to Croatian citizens who then analyse it and all of us from any political options come they probably take seriously. So maybe if sometimes someone does not seem to care what message this message will send, it may have a significant impact on the stability of the institutions of the Croatian state, on the overall political stability in the Republic of Croatia. And here, once again on behalf of the Representatives' Club, I would like to appeal to the HDZ Representatives' Club that, indeed, when we have issues like this, we take care of increasingly complex international relations. In the end, I would conclude that, regardless of all these challenges and uncertainty, Croatia is the EU member and the Croatian Parliament as the most representative body should be more active and more engaged in the debate and establishment of European policies because they also shape our lives daily. I will remind the Lisbon Treaty, which gave national parliaments additional powers in the field of European affairs, thus increasing their importance in the EU legislative process. So I'm also removing those criticisms that only laws are passed without being professionally and qualitatively analyzed. We have a Committee on European Affairs that has been working successfully for three years now, is being promoted, understands this logic that exists within the EU. So we are no longer just those who uncritically implement these laws but also analyze them and in line with the possibilities of our administration trying to influence these laws to be as close and useful to our citizens as possible. But there's still a lot of work ahead of us. Finally, I would like to say that the HDZ Club welcomes the presented report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held during 2016 and gives full support that this practice continues, so that we do not only have this once a year, but that the Prime Minister regularly informs us about what is happening in the European Union and what are the positions not only of the Republic of Croatia but also of all the other Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26677	I would like to thank my colleague, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Gordan Jandrokovic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26678	A colleague of Jandrokovic, you as an experienced diplomat and you were also foreign minister, mentioned the arms rattle by Serbian politics, i.e. Covering policies, i.e. I must literally tell the leaders of Vukic and Nikolic and others who in one ugly way are carrying out a memo he wrote a long time ago, apparently little now in some different form both towards Kosovo and mainly towards Croatia. Can you tell me why 23 you are open in front of the HDZ club, which is why it is open for you, Croatia has not blocked chapter 23 – Serbia's judiciary in pre-accession negotiations because the fact is, I will repeat what I said this morning and I will repeat always that Serbia has now received what The Hague had. She became a small Haag and that it was for the first time in history that the aggressor would judge and engage and locate, transfer that not always... roars Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But Serbia is being led by the Chetniks at this point. It's the Wolf who was a Cheseliu Cheseliu, it's Nikolic Chetnik. They admitted it. I don't put this in their mouths. They called for the massacres of the Croatian people, the Bosniak people, to great Serbia. And really under these circumstances, I don't know what the Croatian's attitude is. I don't understand who could have opened their chapter, i.e. why Croatia did not block when you know that Croatia had the way to open chapter 23. We were not allowed to declare the economic belt, we had to capture and prosecute the sons most prominently in The Hague, process them in various ways. One ugly picture of people defending the Homeland, and today we are left by Croatian defenders on a hunting ground open to Chetniks. If it is not blocked by Serbian Chetniks, Seselj's key people who have committed huge crimes from Vukovar to Dubrovnik. Do you think that the immediate and urgent Croatian government and diplomacy through the European Parliament should be blocked and negotiations blocked in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26679	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26680	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. So the process of negotiations is for the Republic of Serbia to join the EU is the best way for Serbia to give up large-scale Serbian policies. And the vital state interest of the Republic of Serbia is precisely that through the process of negotiations, the Republic of Serbia rejects and condemns a large-scale Milosevic policy. So this is a strategy that I believe is shared by everyone who is here and Serbia will not be able to complete the negotiations, nor will they be able to close the negotiating chapter that you are talking about without doing so. In particular, this concerns the Law on Regional Jurisdiction, and I am sure that without significant changes, therefore without giving up on that right and attempting to be some kind of regional arbiter, Serbia will not end negotiations or become a full member of the EU. As for the rhetoric coming from Serbia, I think we must be very wise. When you see that someone deliberately challenges you and provokes you and wants to drag you into that kind of verbal accounting and if you see that someone is pushing you and even from our position, for no reason, then they probably have some interests of their own why they do it. And I'm not one of those who's going to stick to it, and because of maybe sometimes the points of politics that you would get on the home court to fight back just as hard, scarred, and tell them that they're Chetniks, etc. If you need it, you can do it. But at this point Croatia is in a dominant position with regard to Serbia, we are a member of the EU, we are a NATO member, we have behind us regardless of all the problems that these two integrations are following today, we have allies behind us. They're trying to find these allies and they're willing to pay a very large price to achieve some of their interests. They have a big problem with Kosovo, they have a big problem in BiH, let's not underestimate it and let's not get provoked and drive to the field that suits them. Croatia is superior, Croatia is a member of the EU and NATO, if we were not in the same position then it would be very difficult for us in these international circumstances, but today we are the ones who have, I am sorry, I am going to finish, today we are the ones who have the opportunity to influence what is going to happen in Serbia, and vice versa, if we are wise enough, it will not happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26681	I thank my esteemed colleague Jandrokovic. I hope that this kindness of mine will allow you to speak more than your intended time to honor all of you speakers and that you will stick to future time and so will Mr. Bulj. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26682	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I wanted to react to this as well as Mr. Bull. Mr Jandrokovic said that the Croatian public is neglecting or underestimating I do not know exactly what word you have said by clinking weapons from Serbia or being indifferent to it. I don't know what you really want to say here if you can explain it a little bit better because Croatia is a member of NATO, Croatia has its armed forces. Our budget is here for the armed forces increased this year with a positive vote and opinion and the SDPs in the Defence Committee. So we're all one public, if you say the public didn't respond properly, that means we're all called here. I agree with you in this response to Mr Bulj's replica, that we should not fall for the cunning games which and manipulations are prepared by skilled politicians from Serbia where we are dragged into rhetorical wars and spiral rhetorical where we only escalate more and more every day, and open issues remain unresolved. So a clear view of all the fundamental issues, clearly spoken in public space, not the answer to any and least meal coming from Belgrade. After all, let's face it, it's our own fault that we inhaled Seselj's life when he returned from The Hague Court to Belgrade. He started provoking Croatia on every single one of his sentences we were jumping. Instead of saying that this is our position on Seselj and his policy and brother goodbye, you will no longer pollute our political space here. We've allowed it to dominate this political space for weeks, if not months. And that's how we got involved in the very political manipulations that some Serbian politicians are preparing for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26683	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26684	As I would say, we have not caught part of the public getting caught from time to time on what comes to us from Belgrade and I agree with you that we must be very careful, very cold heads to assess what the state interest of the Republic of Croatia is and respond accordingly. But when I was talking about gun-stuttering, it seems to me that our public space is sometimes dominated by very banal topics, and we don't notice from these banal topics what's important, which is globally threatening and for the Republic of Croatia, we do sometimes do little things and we don't see what's important from these little things. And this is important, what is currently happening in Serbia, what is happening in Russia, what is happening in Kosovo, what is happening in BiH is very important. The announcements by Dodik to go towards the independence of Republika Srpska's very rough messages coming from the leaders of the Bosniak people today, we have the opportunity to read in one Croatian weekly what messages come from Bosniaks, to bring us, of course, into a position to think about what kind of politics the Republic should be towards, what they should be when it comes to our main allies and how we will position ourselves in the years that may come in months that come, that's what I'm talking about. So, very much through our public and media space, very undetected sometimes pass, very serious strategic messages that come from our neighborhood and from the big world players, we don't notice them, and we're very strict, we're very rough and sometimes not intelligent enough when it comes to our inner affairs. I'm not going to elaborate right now, I don't have time, but that's that call I made from the pay phone and on responsibility for both seriousness and thinking about what might be waiting for us tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26685	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President Jandrokovic, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. counterpart Jandrokovic mentioned the issue very recently in essence, the issue of the pro-Serbian rhetoric by the government of Prime Minister Vukic, i.e. we will not even say pro-Serbian but large-serb rhetoric. But in the end, they have the opportunity to hear the rhetoric itself, Prime Minister Plenkovic. And what is Croatia's response to this rhetoric? The answer is, Serbia's entry into the European Union is supported. What is Croatia's response to the occupation of the Charengrad Ade? I don't know if you know it, but Sarengrad Ada is a Croatian river island on the Danube border, where this river makes a border with Vojvodina or Serbia. That Charengrad hell is still occupied today. Serbian police are preventing the country's owners from coming to their country. Has Croatia done anything or tried in any way to force Serbia to return that part of occupied territory to us? The answer is of course not. And not only that, but the HDZ together with this Vucic is sitting in the same club of MPs, and there's this same HDZ spilling fairy tales about the fight for national interests, against the great Serbian ideas, etc., and unfortunately, together with them sitting, together with them are honored and what is said to be drunk together in liturgy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26687	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Answer, dear colleague Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26688	My friend Pernar, I like you. You know that. You've already noticed that. But yesterday you did something to disrupt that sympathy. You didn't get up when the Croatian Anthem was playing and it's very hard for you to forgive, regardless of what later it tried to relativize that people put their hands on the heart, etc. and they did something else. I think that no MP who comes here to the Croatian Parliament and sits here at the plenary session when the Croatian Anthem is released, has, has to get up. Whoever doesn't want to get up, get out. It's my opinion and I'll always hold on to it and I think it's the only possible and only right thing to do. As for Serbia, Croatia did not unreservedly say that Serbia would become a full member of the European Union. It will become a full member of the European Union once it meets all the necessary requirements, all the necessary standards as well as all other Member States of the European Union. And it is especially important for us to give up and reject large-scale Serbian politics. And yet I'm going to ask you because you're saying something about HDZ that is with Vucic who, his party is a member of the European People's Party, will become a member only when Serbia becomes a full member, and will only become a member once the large Serb policies have been abandoned. But you went to Serbia and hugged with great Serbs and Chetniks there. I saw it because the media is showing it today. I do not see what your contribution is to the weakening of this large Serbian idea, strengthening Croatian politics and its relationship with the Republic of Serbia. I think you actually worked on them to make them cute. And we Chetniks can't be nice after everything they've done in history. So when you attack others, then analyze your actions first, and they are when it comes to Serbia, and the attitude towards the Croatian state, according to the Croatian state's symbols, have not been quite right in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26689	I thank you for your response to the distinguished colleague, Vice President Jandrokovic. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia's distinguished colleague, Professor Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26690	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister and his associates. I welcome you and I'm glad you're in this session. This is indeed one news in the work of the Croatian Parliament to report to the Parliament on what the Government and you as our representative in the European Union are doing, as is happening there. And I would also like to remind you that the item of the agenda that we are discussing is the Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held during 2016. We European Union, therefore the European Council is a handsome name for the Government, the European Government, in fact, of a non-existent state, better said as a political project and this is also the greatest improvement of the European Union project, which is otherwise one of the 20th century human projects and 21st century to end the bloody wars of Germany, France and, of course, other countries. And here, for some 70 years, we have enjoyed at least this peace means the central and western parts of Europe. However, we, when we look at the European Union, are seen in Croatia and almost exclusively from the frog's perspective. Well, from a frog's perspective, man can't see much. It is time to rise to a bird's perspective and see what is happening or to be very precise and immediately at the beginning, Mr Prime Minister, I suggest that on the basis of the significantly changed causes, and the situation and events from the fall of the Berlin Wall to here, and especially over the past few months and years to accept, you may initiate a special assembly session with a theme on the transformation of the European Union with possible meanings, which would include possible scenarios of what will happen in the immediate future. We are today witnessing a drastic change of circumstances in relation to the original ideas and the situation after the fall of the Berlin Wall. When we look at the situation of the European economy, the situation of the economy in the European Union will not go too far if I say that it is veining. The European Union has become the least perspective in the world economy because in the last 10 years, when you look at the average growth of gross domestic product within the European Union, we see that it is the weakest compared to other economic blocks in the world. What are the other changed circumstances that concern us and require debate on the situation and future of the European Union automatically from Croatia's position in the European Union? The lowest rates are economic growth, that's what I said. High public debt growth after the financial crisis in 2008. High unemployment, and in some countries especially on the periphery of the so-called The peripheries of the European Union are huge, enormous, especially young people. The Rivers of Migrants are coming. Thus, drastic changes are taking place in relation to the situation that was up to just a few years ago. When we analyse the past period, we can conclude that the European Union has not been able to meet the challenges of globalisation so far. Why couldn't she answer? So we see by the rates of economic growth, unemployment, public debt and other problems that arise. There China emerged as a new force in any respect that has the ambition to become the leader of the world economy and international economic and political relations. On the other hand, the existing leader of the United States wants to maintain their position at all costs. And on the third hand, Russia is as powerful as the military. So the relationship between strength and situation has changed significantly both geoeconomic and geopolitically in the world in the last 10 years, 20 years. What is particularly worrying, imagine seeing Robert Schuman and other initiators, means the people of visionaries who created this project, to see the wire between the countries of the European Union, between France and Britain, Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, between Slovenia, I think they would be shocked. There is therefore much more that could be listed as those problems and that picture of the European Union that we did not imagine. What's particularly worrying about is a message from Brexit. What exactly is Brexit? It is, in fact, the strongest confirmation that the UK has not seen a perspective in such a European Union. In fact, I will never say the truth, because it may be a difficult word, nor has it accepted the common currency, and its position has always been geographically and historically, so since the migrants appeared, it has sent Brexit as soon as it has sent an even greater message or created greater uncertainty to other nations and countries within the European Union and it is now extremely difficult to create new optimism when this is happening in front of us. So this speech of mine is realistic without any intention of adding some tones that would be populist. What we are particularly concerned about is that the process of building the European Union as a political project of the state that it has stopped. I have already said that the European Union is an unfinished political project of the state. And what's particularly dangerous is that it's become unitary, and it's asphyxiating democracy and creation as far as it's concerned, and it's particularly negatively affecting the future. What is important to note is that at least in domestic relations at country level local politics must be allowed to create, decide because otherwise what do we have? We have hyperinflation of legal regulations over 200 thousand pages already we have, 150 thousand, 200 thousand pages of various directives, one legal prejudiciality that no one can follow in this sense anymore. We must also achieve this situation and behaviour as a small people, but who should be and be proud and must be proud, which is that when someone raises their eyebrows in Brussels, someone jumps right here in Zagreb. Well, we can't afford that. I don't mean you specifically, Mr. Prime Minister, but I mean the period before, so what happened. We need to show that we have an even stronger attitude, that we want to say something even though we are a small country, but that does not mean that we cannot and cannot participate in it. Otherwise, if this isn't the way it is, then it won't be a success. What is the main problem here that this turn has occurred and the situation of the European Union project has deteriorated? Because there's been a capital advantage. We have for the first time the situation that capital manages politics because globalisation has created the need for liberalisation in every respect, which has been exploited by multinational companies, has been imposed, so politics today has become a servant of large-scale capital and multinational companies. Unfortunately, this will not work and this hegemony of capital over the interests of the people in the European Union has been going on for 25 years. However, we must not forget one historic thing, which is that Europe has never suffered central authority or unitary approach, either Napoleon or Hitler, or all others. So we have a whole new situation. Anyone who hasn't learned something from history can be made a mistake. That is why the challenge is great and the need for this Parliament to mean with the experts it has called on us to consider the committees it has to consider a new situation in the European Union, to discuss all open problems and to see how to position or reposition Croatia with one or two scenarios. Unfortunately, we see that we now have a certain kind of world chaos in every respect of the ecosystems of other turmoil, migration, wars are increasingly less and less water among countries, increasingly within the states themselves, means limited. Well in that sense, it should be said that our species, and we belong to a group of homosapiens, it needs to be adapted to life, not the market. I think that the Parliament should be discussed this way because we have been chosen by citizens to think strategically, the interest of Croatian people, the Croatian state and to protect interests, and therefore to move in the direction that is healthy and that protects this people and this country. In this context, I will also mention the euro project. He was in crisis after 2008 when there was a major financial crisis, and among other things, the big problem is that the European Union did not create if it was already working on it, it did not create a single fiscal policy, a single banking union. All this says how much of the European Union's project is skewers. So when a man listens, of course, to our public, to individual approaches and debates, then he sees how much, so there is one poverty of intellectual approach to these problems, and they adapt and worsen. I also suggest it would be good, in this report I said it is commendable to be out, to inform and thus to the Croatian public what is going on. As a Parliament and government, we should balance our three-year existence, stay in the European Union, because I remind you in the 7th month of 2013 when Croatia entered the European Union, we were then on 61% of the European Union average as regards living and other standards. Now we're 59%. Someone would say it's simple to conclude, so we are getting worse as we enter the European Union. It might be better, it might be worse, but let's get this straight, let's see why it was, so I was then among some economists warning that there's no spectacle, that it's going to be difficult, that we have to run our own policy, that we have to pile up on our market, use our domestic currency, national currency to become a better economy. However, it was simply in the cacophonia of voices that was simply flooded. About this context, so to conclude, we need to and we need to make a balance of success both for our countries and for us to see what's going on. Well, here I propose on behalf of the party We change Croatia to soon organise a parliamentary debate on the situation, the tendencies in the European Union, the situation, the changed meaning conditions, the position of Croatia in one real, cold way, respecting everything that we see happening, but above all national interests and everything else. Because if we don't do it and do it, then we can get what an American journalist called from small Yugoslavia and the European Union project itself becomes a great Yugoslavia. And I don't think any of us want it here. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26691	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26692	Dear colleague Lovrinović, I would like to agree with you that in the most humane intentions of the 58th year, the European Community is the European Community. Since 58, economic protection of the markets i.e. the opening of certain countries, so later on for steel interest and coal. However, by joining the European Community in 67 it was a noble intention in the European frameworks to stop the bloody wars in these areas. But today in this aspect, it was the second one in the '90s, in this aspect when we look here, we're going to talk about banks. Banks that are examples from another country but in Croatia do business or they get it the way they got it from Croatian citizens who subsidized them. who have been recapitalised, and were later handed over to the hands of foreigners because of Croatian policies. How can you interpret it because I know you're an expert at this, for example? The Italian bank has 2% interest, and we are the same European Union, and in Croatia 10%, 11, 12 along with other charges? Did Croatia's policy in the European Union really fight for the fairness of protecting Croatian citizens and interest, in terms of various loans that cannot pass in Austria, such as Raiffeisen Bank savings credits. So, Croatian policies did not play and protect the national interests of their citizens in the European Union. Bad policies, servant policies, court policy. I know that you've talked about it a lot and I know that your position will be clear why Croatia pays bigger interest in citizens' banks when it raises a loan or a private person or a natural person? Why are there more interest rates in Croatia five times and the same bank than in other European Union countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26693	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. The answer of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26694	Here's dear colleague Bulj, you've really asked one question that interests citizens and so all entrepreneurs, meaning all businesses in Croatia. Remember before entering the European Union as people rejoiced, expected better conditions, as well as on the financial market, at a lower interest rate. But as you can see, it didn't happen. So, we, in front of our eyes, have witnessed that our promises have been failed, and this shows that those who, at all costs, rushed and did not protect national interests, did not go so far as to say in the healing of the Croatian economy, other measures of economic policy simply deceived us in this regard. However, the problem and the way of deception continue. So you see these days some analysts, economically and even the governor and the former governor they're telling us if we get into the euro as soon as possible that we're going to have lower interest rates. So where is the end of this deception of the Croatian public? The Greeks said the same thing, and you will have lower interest rates, so gentlemen of the Eurozone and the euro project as it is imagined, it does not mean that countries will have more interest rates than they will even up and will go towards a lower level. Greece experienced an interest rate on its debt over 20% you remember, so is that the Eurozone, is that the project? We have in recent years 6.7.8 to 10%, so I can say that for these very reasons, the Croatian economy and citizens are unnecessarily corrupt, and especially is the responsibility of the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26695	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Željko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26696	A fellow vice president of the Parliament. We're hearing a lot about threats from the outside this morning, but I'd say that again isn't our biggest problem. We have this legal expert, we have some major challenges ahead of us, and this is building a functional framework, an institution that we can act as a functional state. Again, we ask rhetorical questions, why in Croatia the grey economy is twice as big as in other EU countries, not only Croatia but all the former post of the communist country, why is there no transparency in privatisation yet? It has not yet published a list of... loans, all post communist countries suffer from the same problems, which is corruption, nepotism etc., except for Estonia, which has spent a transparent privatisation. That's all we're pulling from the former state. I think we need not only human lustration but scientific lustration, one analysis, and by that we will repeat it more times, that we have got a country that exactly resembles the former state except for one factor, which is hyperinflation. And as for human resources policy, those who have led the country so far, let's say some... communist Yugoslavs have proven that they cannot lead that state, should be removed from public life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26697	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. The answer of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26698	Dear Representative Glasnovic, here I will comment only on this part of your replica, which is a robbery conversion and privatisation can't be called uninvited by a man without this adjective, it was quite a mugging. So we would have a lot of use to see, we feel something significant positive from the EU if Brussels had not ordered that those results of conversion and privatisation be sanctioned which were criminal. This would show a significant effect, for example, of joint action and the benefit we would experience here. I would like to see it personally, and all of us here who represent Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26699	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26700	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Lovrinovic, I read in the press the other day that our prime minister and governor discussed the introduction of the euro, even publicly boasted that the governor had the support in the government to introduce the euro, you mentioned earlier. So I want to ask you, what would happen if the euro were actually introduced, since you're a doctor of monetary fiscal policy? And one more thing I'd like to ask you, since there's now an INA purchase going on, can the National Bank have an impact on that and can it benefit from buying INA so it doesn't sell electrically or anything like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26701	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26702	Dear counterpart Misic, I first read that Governor Vujcic boasted that he was at a meeting and talks with Prime Minister Plenkovic. Whether he boasted of it, if he had received firm support for his plan, which has long been representing to move to the euro as soon as possible, that would be of interest to me. Here's Mr. Prime Minister here, so maybe you could answer that question. Therefore, the introduction of a common currency is not a technical business. It is for me as a citizen, but for the national economy and economic policy it is an extremely sensitive issue and a very important problem. I would just like to remind you that both former Governor Rohatinski and the current Vujčić, they have had in the past 15, 16 years a strategy for the rapid Euroisation of Croatia's introduction of the euro and thus to suppress the full kuna from optics. Now, let's look at countries that feel better about us economically, that's Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, those countries are not even thinking about introducing the euro at all. And those who have introduced Italy and other countries, they now have a good part of the problem and it is shown that by introducing the euro into such a system as the Eurozone, those who are best organised, who have the most powerful, newest technology, which is in this case practically Germany. And as for your INA question, MOL or HEP, I don't have enough time to explain to you, but I'm sure you can use the money at the CNB's capital account. But I'll mention one more thing. As General Motors was saved in America in 2008, when the American state invested about $40.50 billion with the help of the US Central Bank, the banks, we can find an answer to these questions. And otherwise here because he's here, let me have another three seconds, since here the prime minister, yesterday I think, told you Mr. Prime Minister there's no one different, no one else, a better proposal. There are better suggestions, you've called for discussion, for counseling, I'm telling you as well as a university professor, I've already said something they have and others have better solutions to how to solve what we want financially. We want to save INA, but on what terms. Is it for sale, and in the financial structure we can offer a very concrete and better solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26703	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Kovac appeared for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26704	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State. We commend Mr. Prime Minister for coming to the Croatian Parliament today to talk about what the government did at the European Council meetings in Brussels. It is a positive good for Croatian political culture. I'd like to share three thoughts with you dear colleagues. The first thought regarding Croatia and Europe, we had a 25th anniversary the other day, it was nice to see it in Lisinski and here in the Croatian Parliament, came Mr. Tusk. And we often forget that Croatia's recognition and struggle for independence were in line with the idea of Croatia's EU integration. We fought then when we went into battle for recognition and for independence and freedom and democracy to be recognized by the European Community. And speaking of which, we remember President Tudjman's approach speech in the Croatian Parliament on 30 May, the first three points were when he spoke about the tasks that were to be done. The first point of the new Constitution, which we later received the Christmas Constitution, the second point, redefine Croatia's position in Yugoslavia, and the third point of Croatia's involvement in the European Community and Europeanisation of Croatia. So the first important thought of our state-of-the-art state-of-the-art is confirmed where? In Europe from the member states of the then European Community. I wish we had been a little more honest with ourselves personally, that we had said who was the most helpful in helping this sovereignty to be confirmed besides Pope John Paul II, that was Mr Helmut Kohl, who imposed this solution on his colleagues in France and some of the other colleagues in the world, too. Not everyone was thrilled with this Croatian recognition, it happened, and the German government made a decision before Christmas that Croatia would be recognised on January 15th, circumstances changed, interests sometimes changed. But you need to be honest and there's one virtue traditional, classic according to Aristotle, truthfulness. So we always have to say things the way they are and we have to thank these people. I listened to my colleagues, Bunjac, and my colleague Pernar, who are skeptical of the EU, the second thought, the European project to unify countries in one broad community, is a project that is positive if there are no more wars. There have been conflicts, there have been scandals, conflicts at Member State level. We remember between Slovakia and Romania, between Slovakia and Hungary because of minorities, but there are no wars. Imagine that the refugee crisis was so acute that we didn't have the EU? There would be a war on the territory of today's EU on the European continent. Because of the existence of the EU, due to the cooperation mechanisms to this war, there has been no war, thank God, there has been no war. So the peacemaking project is positive, and we have to stress that. But what's the matter? Young generations, not only in Croatia, but also elsewhere, are not interested. You can't get young people with an idea, get the idea that the EU is a peacemaking project, they don't care. You can get them by being able to travel freely, that there is a euro, that they can pay with euro goods or services in Spain, Portugal, Germany, Austria, Slovenia and elsewhere, but with the idea, with the story of peace, of a postwar new story in the area of our continent, you can't convince that story. So we need a new EU story and whether it makes sense to be in the EU. That's our responsibility, too. It is not only our responsibility here in Croatia, but it is our responsibility in Croatia and it is clear that all EU countries have this responsibility, and most of all, the biggest countries that, as the biggest, most responsible. Therefore, to conclude, the project is positive, and as much as the EU is attractive to the problems it has seen in Britain, yesterday the prime minister spoke to Mai about going into the EU exit process, however, she gave a clear answer that a vote would be sought in the British House's parliament on whether or not to come out, regardless of the referendum. This means that the British are still calculating whether they're eventually coming out or not. They are not sure whether they are worth getting out of the EU or not. The other thing that makes the argument the first thing. And now we come to a third important thought. And we need to make that clear in Croatia, there is no need to be afraid of it. We must run away from this pioneering, you know those pioneers of the small so former Yugoslavia, so the EU, we must be honest with ourselves and say that the EU is in crisis. There's an identity crisis. Mr Plenkovic spoke earlier about the Italian election as the new president of the European Parliament. Nobody knows him. If you ask someone in Croatia, Austria, in Slovenia who Mr. Schultz was, who knows? I personally attended a German high school in 2013 and asked young future graduates in the 12th grade, according to our system in the 4th grade high school, if they knew who the president of the European Council of Tusk was, then Van Rompuy. I asked them who the President of the European Commission was, they didn't know. Therefore, the EU is in crisis with the identity crisis, and this should be made clear. She is not recognizable enough when it comes to her institutions. We have a clear and three crisis-debted crisis, a refugee crisis, and we now have the exit of Great Britain from the EU, but with our membership, dear colleague Bulj, we are emancipated. We now have a chance of our interests in a smart, clear way of articulating and towards Serbia. What happened with Chapter 23 is that we have installed these mechanisms and will not be able to progress without these things being done so as not to come to an agreement between Croatia and Serbia on who they judge and who they are. With that there's one thought fellow Bull when you talk about their War Crimes Act, who's judging for the crimes of the Ovcara? A senior court in Belgrade. So this sovereignty of Croatia is already somehow defiled ten years ago when these processes started. That's it. These are complicated topics and there should be very responsible when we talk about who's guilty, who's not guilty of something, there we need to be very, very serious. And now one final thought, and as for our mechanisms in Croatia, our institutions, that's what Professor Lovrinović said nicely, we need to start using mechanisms that we have much more efficient, so let's say for example. We welcome this initiative by the Prime Minister's arrival in the Parliament, but we ask him to do one innovation, to do what other EU member states are doing, to come to the Croatian Parliament, to come to European Affairs committees before the meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council and the general job in Brussels are held before the European Council meetings are held in Brussels. So here we all contribute to strengthening our awareness that we are in this organization and that we have co-responsibility and that we must make maximum use of our membership for the Croatian people for all people living in Croatia, so that we, as Professor Lovrinović said, become more economically efficient. We are inside now we are somehow safe, but economically we are not effective enough. This year, we were cut off by Romania, and if we are not faster in development, Bulgaria's counterparts, whom we made fun of 10, 15, 20 years ago, will also be able to reach. Therefore, we must prevent this and therefore it is important to build mechanisms in Croatia, to build institutions, to develop institutions, to develop institutions of the Croatian Parliament, to make the Croatian Parliament stronger, to make MPs better equipped so that they can act not to condemn everything to cheap passwords, cheap populistism. So I repeat once again in the final thought, it would be nice if we could agree to have sessions. The discussions on the positions in Brussels do not have to be those discussions binding, these conclusions, but it is nice to hear this, before the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council, for general affairs and meetings of the European Council. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26705	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26706	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Kovac, you've spoken well of this. I just wanted to ask you, is it like the Minister of Foreign Affairs to you and to look at Europe if Europe was too late to help us, starting with the war when they acted like they didn't know what was going on, and then further into their negotiations, our negotiations with them, in fact, made our economies weak to the fullest extent possible. Unfortunately, our current prime ministers and everyone else have not shown enviable knowledge in the negotiations. You know that Bulgaria and Romania have both entered from us before, which were neither ready nor by chance, so another question arises why the EU when it is so good hastened BiH in the process of approaching Europe to stabilise this part of the world. Does the EU want us to make a good country? I personally hope so far the prime ministers, and now Prime Minister Plenkovic, I hope we can trust him. I personally have, and in all your performances so far, you're giving me confidence as a parliamentary representative to go one way, no matter who beat you on the other, and your public dating and here in the House is something that hasn't happened. I'm not in politics, I'm in economics, and I have to tell you, I'm a little optimistic now, I'm not a big optimist whether this Croatia will move forward. And here we go. I hope Europe needed a lot more for us than it has done so far. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26707	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. The answer of the esteemed colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26708	I thank you for this stimulant thought of my colleague, Music. Is it too late for the EU to admit us, so it's hard to say now. There were difficult conditions back then, all of us who followed it weren't all for us, to simulate things a little bit. There were those who were against us, that's how it was in life. Not everyone can love you both at school, and at school, there are teachers who love you, some don't love you, you know, and those who don't love you must and those who don't love you or don't like you to win them, and in the end we managed to do it. That was very difficult, but we did it. The EU... you said whether the EU will change us. So we are co-owners of the EU, we need to change the way we think. We remember when we were younger in that former Yugoslavia, so when people used to talk, they gave the Germans the Adriatic Sea. That thought must not exist in our Croatian brain. We are the ones who have to change, and now that we have joined the EU, we have a chance to do it. I say, we have cooperation mechanisms, we need to profile them, and we need to create some. BiH, the Croatian government, and before that, EU representatives and among them Mr Plenkovic have helped make HDZ BiH i.e. Members of the presidency then, the chairman of the Bureau, submitted a request for membership. The process has started, they will need a lot of help, not all of them are as carried out by this idea as Croats in BiH, the other two people are less obsessed with this idea, this project, we will have to work hard, we will do a lot of work to make the EU work in some way if you want to and force our colleagues in the EU to be equally enthusiastic when it comes to BiH starting EU integration. But now we have a Prime Minister who can say and speak at European Council meetings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26709	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Željko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26710	Dear counterpart Kovac, I think that we are all in agreement with everyone here that Croatia is not and must not be an EU salad and we are where we are, it is a real policy, with this are consensual young anarchists for... communists and Democrats, etc., sitting in the Assembly. But I'd say it's just real politics. We are also part of a collective security organisation and NATO which is a nuclear alliance. ...is 15 minutes away. But in a conversation recently with a Croatian military officer, recently a Turkish diplomat drank little and said this, says our strategic interests reach Karlovac. Do you remember Turkish Croatia? This is how I wonder how far Croatian strategic interests are? And I would appeal to the government to extract critical information, and BiH was recently in Odjak two thousand young people have moved out of Odjak. People leave their grandfathers behind. According to some unverified information, it's gone, sold people 18,000 properties in central Bosnia. That pace must be stopped. We don't have strategic depths, we have a country that... 650 meters wide. That's the first question. The second question is critical of the diaspora bridge, we have 350 thousand Croats in Germany alone. What about that bridge? ...brains, investments, etc. The last topic of the border, again incorrect information perhaps you know better than I do, has been found larger amounts of oil, gas perhaps Boka Kotarska, what about that border? I heard Montenegro moved the border. That's the key questions. As far as great Serbian imperialism is concerned, they have partners here in the Croatian Parliament who repeat their historical truth of Serbian lies, there are some heads and also have partners in NGOs that destroy this country and receive money from the Croatian budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26711	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. The answer of the esteemed colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26712	I am very pleased to reach out in some way to the silent agreement that much is in our hands. I repeat, we must build the mechanisms we have and be more efficient. You said Croats outside the Republic of Croatia they are dry gold, they should only be cleverly animated and move into it. The other day I had one meeting on that plan and in Vukovar, not everything goes overnight, it can't all go overnight. About BiH, what you said, Professor Lovrinovic, and that is already in the plan, I spoke with Parliament President and Bozo Ljubic, there is, that we will organise a debate in plenary, there is a Mr. Klisovic about it there is an agreement on BiH in the Croatian Parliament. I also accept the idea of fellow Lovrinovic doing the same thing in the EU. A lot is up to us, we can only change a lot if we organize well and if we're all motivated and we're not just waiting for someone else to do something for us. In BiH, you know how things are, that foreign forces are present, you mentioned Turkey and Russia, not everyone for the EU, but we have a chance to increase with our colleagues in the EU, strengthen awareness that the EU must be more present, that Croatia must be more present. Everyone can make a contribution in their own way to this, and we as Parliamentarians, the government as such, each citizen can do something just have to be motivated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26713	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Kovac, you said in your statement that students and students in Croatia do not know who Schultz is, Tajani you told Donald Tusk and you tied it to the EU identity crisis. But my opinion is that it is not the reason why students and students do not know who Tusk, Tajani or Schultz is the EU identity crisis but the crisis of the education system of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we need important curricula reform, and that's why it's important for the government to let the curricula reform go into the implementation of how it was made by experts, how it was done by the profession, without intervening and bringing it to a level of inrecognition. The second thing, you said, and I agree on that, and I support you, that the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs should come before the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council or before the General Affairs Council meeting in the Assembly, the committee responsible for presenting the views and that the Assembly may discuss and give its input further. As Minister, I'm afraid you haven't done that. ... One time, well, so now the right way to correct this mistake is to invite the Minister in writing each time before the Council's meeting to come to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and together with us you are a member of the Council for European Affairs, to put such pressure on or propose to the chairman, Domagoj Milosevic. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26715	I thank Mr. Klisovic. It's nice to see this agreement in the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Kovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26716	I really appreciate these kind letters, it's nice because it ennobles people to have in some way a consensus... I think Mr. Prime Minister and the Secretary of State also like it, but not only does the foreign minister come, he is occupied with other affairs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The secretary of state, the secretary of state, may not matter, or someone from an official who would do so, I think it would really help all of us in Croatia. And as far as the education system is concerned, it's not an educational system problem, but I said that elsewhere, we have indeed had a problem with the education system in Croatia for decades, I found one text, one note from the 27th century when a French officer was in Kalinovik as captain and wrote a report about his stay in the SHS army, the main headquarters of the French army, the Ministry of Defence and the military attaché... He wrote the following thing: "If the education system does not change in this country," then in the Kingdom of SHS "this country will never become a Western type country." Therefore, it is something that has been bothering us for decades and I am convinced that this Croatian government will start to reform education because it is the future of Croatia, the future of our children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26717	I thank my colleague Kovac for his reply. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26718	Comrade Kovac, you said there was an identity crisis in the European Union. Well, of course people are disappointed. Let's be honest that they are disappointed that in the pre-accession time of Croatia which has been difficult to enter, which had various conditions, it should have been fulfilled from what you mentioned to Serbia today we did not seek, we did not reveal chapter 23, well known because you were the foreign minister, that jurisdiction in our territory remained under the Republic of Serbia, literally the water brushes today, I will repeat once more to Serbia, Seselj's means helpers who called for slaughter, to conquer territories both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and it is a shame. Croatia had to meet the requirements, Slovenia has been doing wonders for Savudrija that we have not yet liquefied from it. Because of the economic belt, you know what it was like to vote in the House, so it had to pull back under pressure and we won't talk about the persecution of Croatian generals of Homeland War heroes who don't know the number of children in schools right now. They know our children in the education system who the heroes of Vukovar are? Make a text and you'll see. So we are losing our identity and we have not strategic national interests within the European Union protected by which Croatia pays well. We're paying for membership, but that's not how it was voted in this House. Then part of the people was skeptical, you know, that the Constitution was changing that it could go below 50% to the election. And it was not good, it was not transparent, it was not about the shortcomings of the European Union, about the loss of sovereignty. These are all the wrong Croatian policies because it is the citizen who decides. Then I didn't know what was good or what was bad and I was skeptical because I saw that unanimity was in the House, left and center and right at the vote. And I saw that this was not a real picture of a people who weren't exactly about to join the European Union because politics didn't well explain what it would lead us to. Young people today are interested in how much interest they have in Croatia, and we are in the European Union and there are far fewer members of the European Union. Why wasn't that fought out? Which is why the Germans today have interests in optical cables for setting up, we need to protect ourselves from making optical cables in Croatia. If we have strength and courage, it is a matter of Croatian politics and we need to talk about it in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26719	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26720	Dear Lord Bull, I am truly pleased that we have a high degree of consensus in these matters and it is important that we understand that we have worked hard, that we have given up a lot of things all these years to enter this European Union, that it must fill us with pride, give us the strength to change things now to the extent that it is possible to our benefit, absolutely, in this no one is stopping us. We can do this if we want, if there is any sense, if there is a will then it can be, I have no doubt that there is enough intelligence in the Croatian Government, in Croatia there is, only that mind must be well organized, there must be will and we will succeed. It doesn't go all night, nothing can go overnight, it needs to work hard. I remember Sarkozy when he was Minister of the Interior, he said, "If you want to make more money, you have to work harder." You can't work less and make less money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26721	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for his reply. With this, we've exhausted the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26722	Thank you. Chairman! It's an extraordinary honor to be able to speak here. Well, I would like to say that in memory of the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who was his vision of Croatia. Was his vision of Croatia such that Croatia would be again in the state union with Serbia for 20 and 15 years after his death, to share the same borders with it again, to sit again in the same parliament as the Croatian and Serbian presidents, to have the same currency with Serbia, to have laws in line with them, etc., etc. Was that the purpose of our first Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tudjman? And this goal, or return to the same state union with Serbia, is inevitable within the European Union. I personally believe that the European Union is in some way some kind of state union. I think most of them will agree with me. The majority will also agree that Serbia will eventually become part of it. And what's going on? You will say, yes, President Tudjman wanted such a Croatia that shares sovereignty with Serbia, etc., etc. Is that what President Tudjman wanted, ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ? I don't think so. The only difference between Yugoslavia and the European Union, you will say – is that we have the Croatian Parliament here – so there was also a Parliament of some kind in the Socialist Yugoslavia. But it was the main one in Belgrade. Today, the main one in Brussels is because the one in Brussels is making directives or laws that are binding on everyone and everyone has to obey. The difference between Croatia in Yugoslavia and Croatia in the European Union today is only that Croatia is managed from Brussels today, not Belgrade. If we look at the standard of average worker, you will see that he is much weaker today than he was in Yugoslavia. Workers today in Croatia in Konzum, in Konzum, Konstruktor, in Bila or in some construction company other or in the factory Željezari Sisak, in fact it has failed like all thousands of other jobs, or workers in the INA Refinery can only dream of getting an apartment from their company, dreaming of building cottages at sea, dreaming of inflation eating their loans, etc. So the overall achievement of ours in these let's say 25 years of our independence is that we gave up our independence, that we share sovereignty and independence, etc. And when I pointed out that problem, or that fact, my colleague Plenkovic attacked me, called me for demagogy, that just as HDZ is now performing this kind of Croatia, means this is the kind of relationship Croatia has with the European Union that's exactly what Franjo Tudjman wanted and said that the primary relative task of this government is to fight against the populists and the demagogues and I don't know what other titles he said, like me and my colleague Bunjca. However, I think that Mr. Plenkovic, or our prime minister, should be the main fight against poverty, the war against social inequality, the war against people sleeping on trams, the war against that 200 wealthy families usurped the entire country and that the children of tycoon who stole Croatia during the HDZ era to be scattered with money while another Croatia freezes in rows before the soup kitchen. Unfortunately, this kind of war, the war against leaving the young people of our country who, in the last year alone under the HDZ, apparently went away 82 thousand, does not intend to lead that kind of war on the HDZ. I wish you'd said, I here with a pay phone announce war on unemployment, war on poverty, war on the escape of young people from the country, war on real estate, war on VAT of 25%, not that kind of war that Mr. Plenkovic or the European Commission are planning to lead. Then even a colleague, Boric, who tried in a moving way to claim that Ivan Pernar, a man who founded the Living Wall, a man who has the support of his own membership and his own voters, is the 5th most popular person currently in Croatia, who has 130 thousand fans on Facebook, that he does not have the legitimacy to represent and lead the Living Wall, but is a colleague from HDZ who will decide, who will suggest which assembly should choose the Leader of the Living Wall. And, of course, in HDZ, we saw what elections are like, how they are held, how many candidates there are for HDZ presidents, how the HDZ finances its campaign, etc. Mr. Boris says the institutions should deal with me and that the minority should go to prison, not people like Mr. Ivo Sanader, their former party president or Mr. Karamark, who recently sued me, dear colleague Mira Bulj. So Croatia doesn't need to indicate war on turned criminals, they don't need And you're wasting my time, sir. [[/Upadica Brkić: Dear colleague Pernar, I would kindly ask you to stick to the topic we are discussing. And as you know, you have a microphone in front of you.]] Please stop the time only Thank you. [[/Upadica Brkić: There is a sound in the Croatian Parliament and you do not have to raise your voice. Everyone can hear you very well. Thank you very much.]] Anyway, he's trying to create an illusion that I'm a criminal here, that I'm the one here who's guilty of people detesting parliamentary agents. But believe me, Mr. Boric, a lot of people tell me on the street I finally have my parliamentary representative. Those representatives who owe this country and sell out, who share the sovereignty of our country, who have issued all the possible national interests they could, these are the same advocates who teach me a lesson about patriotism, who tell me that I am not big enough probably a Croat or that I am a traitor. And it's not the traitor Ivo Sanader, it's not the traitors who sell INU, HEP, etc., but of course the other one couldn't be expected. I wish Mr Plenkovic had said the following words here today at the pay phone, telling the war to the people or judges of the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court who are making judgments against the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the verdicts that have caused us to lose billions, not millions, billions. However, the replacement of the Constitutional Court judges who freed former HDZ President Ivo Sanader is unlikely to be welcomed, and no verdict against these people will pass. And they won't hear from the European Commission any criticism of those decisions of our Constitutional Court. No, it suits them because the European Union is in the service of large capital and then I am the only one who is fighting for the sovereignty of our country or that this sovereignty is not shared with other countries, that we have our borders and not to be again, that we should remove the borders at the end and towards Serbia and that we have the same currency with Serbia and that in the same parliament we are sitting with them, I am called a traitor. Why? Because I took a picture with Bosca Obradovic. There, act of betrayal, I took pictures. And with whom all of Colinda was photographed, we're not going to talk about who she took the picture with, it doesn't matter. But gentlemen and ladies, it doesn't matter who he took the picture with, whether someone stands or sits in an anthem because those people like Eve Sanader, you were the first to stick to the right hand of the heart and swear to Croatia, in religion, in patriotism, and even in the fight against corruption and crime and to tell war to those who have ruined this country with organized crime. However, of course the most organised and largest criminal organisation, it is under the protection of all institutions, the Supreme Court has knocked down the verdict against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26723	I thank Mr. Pernar. We have a few replicas. Dear fellow Professor Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26724	So it has been said long ago that the most uneducated people are the strongest in their criticisms because they have neither evidence of what they say nor are sensitive to counterarguments. This fellow Pernar, what you're saying, wouldn't eat that dog with the butter, so he wouldn't actually eat what you've been saying for months, and that's 30 of the same sentences that you've been doing every day, and there's no logic, no consistency, no meaning, no argument in that. So it's actually a question of whether this kind of discussion of yours should be reacted to or how much it makes sense for a man to do so, not to get down into that mud and remain muddy arguing with you. As far as Croatia's sovereignty is concerned, it is one process that in Europe there were 20 countries 100 years ago, now there are 60 when we talk about the Council of Europe, in the United Nations almost 200 countries, thus disappearing empires, creating national states and then it is a question of who will simply define the rights of international order and these relations. Therefore, Croatia should be sovereign, should be independent but should also be participated in these bodies where the rules of the game are defined and laws passed that will define the international order and which everyone should treat. And what you're saying has nothing to do with anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26725	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miroslav Tudjman, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26726	Thank you, Chairman. On the case, I ran into an article that said, "Franjo Tudjman refused to join the European Union and $5 billion in 1990," he said, "Franjo Tudjman refused to join the European Union in 1990 and $5 billion as much as she then offered to the united European peoples in Yugoslavia in exchange for peace and political agreement." I can't give up on any billion ideas that feed the entire Croatian people, "To restore the Croatian state, that's primarily for me," the first Croatian president said. Tudjman's words were conveyed by Kiro Gligorov in the documentary "Tuđman and Milosevic, the agreed war". What's this about? The point is that Franjo Tudjman was a supporter of Europe in terms of the unity of the sovereign nations of the people but not as some mega-Yugoslavia, the great Yugoslavia in which we make 1%, we share sovereignty with everyone and we actually lose all the elements of our statehood, we lose our currency, we lose our borders, we have a common army, we have common laws, we have minority common police. And finally, where it is literally heading towards federal Europe, a kind of federal Europe, that does not loose the confederacy in which our consent is needed to bring the directives of the European Union, but rather the directives of the European Union are being adopted and then imposed on us. Kosovo, in the time of Yugoslavia, and all decisions taken in Belgrade, had to be approved by the Kosovo Assembly. Imagine that paradox. And we in Croatia mean decisions are made in Brussels without our consent, we have a lower degree of autonomy in the European Union than Kosovo once did in Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26727	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected counterpart, Glasovic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26728	Dear Mr. Pernar, like this. There is one proverb about the army that says this: “It says best in the animal kingdom of the parrot, and the worst is flying.” You are not a historian, but what you have said has made me a little disappointed. I know you've moved on now to think... Because now you've gone to that cult. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know, but you're not a historian. I'd like to say one thing first. Why do you keep defending the biggest... in the history of Southeast Europe? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was better in the former South, it's one of those mantras. It lived so well that the country committed etocide against the Hungarians, Germans, the most valuable minority killed 66,000 women, children, old men, tens of thousands of prisoners of war, wiped out the Croatian people, changed their genetic code. It is the current state of the Croatian state. Not just that. She ran a confiscation, nationalization, and we didn't solve it today. That's why 7% of the land was introduced into the cadastre. This is Croatia's current problem. We can say 25 years with UDBA, and you're saying who UDBA is free to speak. What's the problem, why it went away, it lived so well that it left that country a million and a half people from the 1960s, seventy-two. It's economic immigration. What about political immigration? You guys have a lot of fans on your face, okay, great. And who are you forgetting? You have 350 thousand Croats only in Germany who do not have double citizenship, who have been completely removed from that Trojan horse that has ruled here since the age of forty-five. You have a man, the head of the Belarusian OZNA who ripped people's fingernails there, lives in Bjelovar, hundreds of mass graves and today he sells books and that's the Croatian state. You've got some kind of Croslavia. Don't talk about academic lustration. This is academic lustration. He says you learn a little history, but you have completely removed Croats outside the country who have given millions of dollars to defend this country. And what did they give you forgive the expression "assies" and... they only spent Croatian money, and you call whoever you want, and first you learn something about Croatian history. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26729	I thank my colleague Glasnović for the replica. Replication response, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26730	I thank Mr. Glasnovic for warning some of the injustices that took place in the time of Yugoslavia. But the biggest injustice to the Croatian people occurred in Bleiburg when thousands of Croats were killed [[Intruding Glasnović: No matter what Bleiburg, come on...]] Sir, can I? .../Intruding Brkic: A colleague, please, Mr. Glasnović, you had the right to speak. [[Intruding Glasnović: Since '45. in the old Yugoslavia...]] Now allow Mr. Pernar to answer you and refrain from inappropriate words in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Pernar. Thank you. I don't have a problem with Mr. Glasnovic's words, just let him apply for an individual debate, let him talk for 10 minutes, it's not a problem. [[Invader Brkić: We will extend your time.]] You can apply for an individual debate, not in a debate on behalf of the club and you can talk for 10 minutes on any topic. [[Intruding Glasnović: I can't, I'm independent.]] There you go. Thank you. I was going to say that there was a mass massacre in Bleiburg. Tens of thousands of Croats were killed back in '45. However, the Croatian state never called the massacre genocide even though it was directed against the Croatian people. And why did the HDZ or the Croatian state not call it genocide, and more people were killed than in Srebrenica. Because those who conducted that genocide were these same communist personnel, the leaders of the UDBA, OZNA, KOS and Tito's generals who actually took over the power of the 1990s but changed their shirts. And to protect these crimes, to abolize the communist regime did not want to call those in Bleiburg the real name that it was genocide. But that's why the massacre of 700 people, 1,000, 2,000 people in Bleiburg, shout genocide, genocide. Why? Because the genocide, or because the massacre in Vukovar was not committed by Croatian communists among others, and the slaughter in, or genocide in Bleiburg was committed by Croatian communists over their own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26731	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Pernar. The next call came the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26732	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would only react to one claim from my colleague, Pernar, who I think is simply harmful if it continues to repeat itself because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is the claim that we will meet again with Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the new Yugoslavia. So that's absolutely incorrect. It is our interest that our two neighbours, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, join the EU, become organised countries with democratic standards, not to be as they are now. So they're our neighbors, we can't change that. And it is our interest as the Republic of Croatia that they be arranged, to join the EU, to accept European standards. And to us, colleague Pernar, you haven't been here in years when we were under pressure to enter the EU by making a number of laws, moving the borders of democratic standards, introducing certain democratic institutes into the Republic of Croatia and making Croatia's society better. So that will apply to our two neighbouring countries now, and therefore it's a very dangerous story for you to talk about us entering new Yugoslavia with them. It is our interest that they enter into an association called the EU and that before they enter, of course, they do all that we and all the countries of others who have entered that association and become truly well-organised countries with a high degree of democracy, certain democratic standards because it is a guarantee and our peace in the Republic of Croatia and a better quality of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26733	I would like to thank you for the replica of the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs. Milanka Opačić. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26734	Mrs Opacic says the EU cannot be compared to Yugoslavia. However, I ask you, Mrs Opačić, if tomorrow we will share the same currency with Serbia and Bosnia again, the same external border, the same common parliament that has been commanded by ours, I repeat not as in the time of Yugoslavia when Kosovo had autonomy and when all let's say legal norms that were valid throughout Yugoslavia had to first be approved by the Autonomous province of Kosovo by the meaning of the 74th Constitution when the degree of that autonomy was raised to the level of the Republic, we, Croatia today I repeat to you will have in that new Yugoslavia called the European Union. has a lower degree of autonomy than Kosovo once did in Yugoslavia. Same currency, same army, common police, common borders, common constitution, common laws, joint parliament. So tell me, dear lady, isn't that living in the same country again? Is it not the aim of the European Union to create a Federation? Don't they say Van Rompy, Tusk and other Euroburocates exactly that this is the European Union's goal of gradually depriveing sovereignty step by step say on the English step by step? And you'll tell Pernar he's a demagogue. But believe me, Stjepan Radic and Dr. Ante Starcevic as well as Dr. Ivan Pernar, doctor of law, who was assassinated in the National Assembly of Yugoslavia. If they were alive today, and if they were here with us, they'd be standing here with me, not there with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26735	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. Next up for the replica, a distinguished colleague of professors came forward. Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26736	I thank my colleagues and fellow MPs. I will begin my replica with the words of a 10th - century philosopher who said in one reply: “There are four kinds of people. It's those who know and know that they know they're scholars, follow them. The other kind are the ones who know and don't know that they know they're asleep, wake them up. The third kind are those who do not know and know that they do not know, they seek to teach them. And the fourth kind is people who don't know and don't know that they don't know, they're ignorant and stay away from them." So I doubted whether to respond to such discussions. However, several incorrect allegations need to be corrected. First, the European Union is not a state union, but a community of states, if that is the case. So that's the definition of confederation. The third thing, the strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia in achieving independence and the goals that President Tudjman's first president of Croatia has declared was Croatia's involvement in the European Union and NATO. The third thing, so Croatia as the sovereign state that has become it and which will remain needs allies and partners. I ask all those who are against Croatia's membership in the European Union, do they want perhaps Croatia to join communities such as the community of independent states where Russia, Uzbekistan, Turkanistan, Tajekistan or Boldia or is a natural environment for Croatia's Islamic conference of communities of countries? Therefore, the European Union is a framework in which Croatia maintains its sovereignty. It should not be forgotten that in the process of Croatia's association with the European Union Croatia has become a better country and in environmental protection, and protection of labour rights, and in the protection of social rights, if you will and in the fight against corruption. So, Croatia actually has no reason to regret being a member of the European Union. And the very fact that both our neighbours and those countries that are beyond the European Union than Croatia wants membership in the European Union say that this community is, in fact, still whatever crisis it is in, and in search of its identity, a magnet for countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26737	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26738	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would ask you to, here is the injured Rules of Procedure of several articles but we can start from Article 14, then on, these are the general provisions of the Rules of Procedure that the time of a particular earl here. Here this morning after Prime Minister Plenkovic announced the fight against populism that I have nothing against, it is his right to do so, encouraged his MPs who have otherwise not done so until yesterday to start other MPs, in this case Mr Pernar to insult, compare with the proverbs of the past. Today we listen to the third member of the HDZ law encouraged to say to Mr Plenkovic because that's how they learned in HDZ when the president says, shows you there your flag is all headed in one direction. So now they've already started to compare Pernar to this or the history of the way he talks, which he argues. Look, a man can talk if he wants anything he wants, even if it's the biggest nonsense. But you have no right to insult him. I'm asking you to run this session that way. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] And you tell your HDZ colleagues not to do it anymore. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26739	Mr. Maras, you have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure because Article 14 doesn't speak at all about it. You could have talked about article 232 as far as the agenda was concerned. And these general provisions were fucked up so I wouldn't tell you what. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26740	Thank you, Your Honor. So you see, Yugoslavia was, according to the 74th Constitution, a community of states or republics, and that was also the basis for our secession from that state community. But for example, I tried to explain to you that the autonomy of the then Autonomous province within Yugoslavia was greater than Croatia's within the European Union. If the European Union were a confederate and not a Federation, then the first Croatian Parliament should adopt certain legislation, certain laws and all other parliaments, and only then, in Brussels, the European Parliament could declare it common, and not vice versa, that the elite of a few representatives from large countries should pass laws, and then all small states must apply this wish-free. However, Mr Ljubic and I will only say that unlike HDZ President Dragan Covic, my family has no villa of 5 million marks in Mostar, in the area of the famous Bare settlement as Beverly Hills, nor has my family changed the stream of the river to pass their house or my house. And what HDZ has done for its benefit in the BIH and what is happening to the Croatian people in BIH is not an honor to you, but to your shame, and from your stories and what is the worst of that wealth you have run on stories about the threat of the Croatian people and its dissuasion which makes this abomination even bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26741	I thank my colleague Pernar. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Goran Aleksic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26742	Thank you. Dear Vice President! Comrade Pernar, I must react based on your negative descriptions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is an honorary institution, the Constitutional Court has made three very important decisions in the last year. First, he made a decision not to suspend the Law on Conversion, then made a decision that the infringement provisions against the banks were constitutionally based on which banks could be prosecuted and on which they could be charged from 9 to 25 billion kuna of criminal penalties. And finally, the Constitutional Court abolished part of the Supreme Court's audit relating to the currency clause in Swiss loans, so-called. the Swiss and as regards the unfairness of the contractual provisions with Sberbank, the Constitutional Court has ordered the Supreme Court to re-evaluate the unfairness of the currency clause CHF and to review the provisions on the unfairness of the interest rate change for Sberbank. So, the Constitutional Court is a correction of the judicial authority, the judicial authorities and as such a correction he has made in the last year three very important decisions and therefore I am obliged and obliged to defend their dignity here because there is no one else but me because I know and I am directed into their work. So you're wrong about the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26743	The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26744	Dear counterpart Alexic, the two verdicts were very crucial to political life. One was that HDZ was convicted as a criminal organised group headed by its president, Ivo Sanader. At that time, HDZ members, cashiers, cashiers, etc. witnessed. in court. Not only did they give statements condemning the withdrawal of money from public companies, financing HDZ campaigns, etc. They've already regretted it through the media. However, the Supreme Court ruins the HDZ verdict by power, then comes to a crucial point where the Constitutional Court rules against Ivo Sanader. It is the only one who benefits from bringing down the powerful verdict of Ivo Sanader, except Eve Sanader and HDZ, is the Hungarian MOL. They were the ones who benefited from that verdict. And the most shocking of all was when the arbitration court ruled against us, the former HDZ president who held his right hand to his heart and stood while the anthem was intonated, he welcomed the verdict, he said this verdict was the correct verdict. And I want to say that it is the Constitutional Court that has led Croatia to the position that it cannot prove that there have been corrupt actions in the case of the transfer of management rights over INO which will eventually lead to the closure of the Sisak refinery, etc., and that same Constitutional Court considers that the application of the currency clause is permitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26745	Comrade Pernar, I have indeed left you completely from the topic and I am asking both you and everyone else to stick to the subject. What you're saying has nothing to do with the subject that we've been discussing all afternoon. We'd end up replicating the presentation of Agent Pernar. The last will be a debate between the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj, individually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26746	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister with his associates! Indeed, this is a positive report that you give to the Croatian Parliament and also to the public to see the views of the Government and the messages from the European Parliament and, of course, parliamentary representatives, and therefore every parliamentary representative knows more than we do Europeans because you have long been in diplomacy and you have been elected to the European Parliament that every parliamentary representative has the right to say certain things, and this is again a product before entering the European Union which was not a real debate, i.e. relevant discussions on why to enter the European Union, what to change and what is good. This is the consequence of the elections themselves before the entry of the European Union which, you know, changed the Constitution itself so that 50% less than one voter can come out. 50 plus 1, it was enough to get two people out for European. So there was one pressure on people and of course people didn't feel the best and it was unanimously accepted. And now this reflection is coming back for the people expected under those desert promises when we enter the European Union that they will sow stars over Croatia. There was a big fan, but I think it would have been a lot better if it had been historically done, more realistic, that through the media and through the public appearances of politicians and those who were skeptical of entering the European Union and those who were in order to argue in debates. Unfortunately, however, it was not the same as in this Croatian House, which unanimously adopted an amendment to the Constitution on entering the European Union and, of course, the people did not accept it well. This report of yours in principle should in principle be that and in the future motivates you as a leader to present what is happening... The European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what are the citizens interested in? Citizens are interested in what we have from our EU membership fee, I think half a billion euros. In four years, it's one Peles Bridge. We pay, so in four years, the Peles Bridge. Our citizens, so in Croatia, what about capital projects? You mentioned a European Union capital project? What about the capital project of the Pelješko Bridge, which is very important for the merger of the Croatian two regions, the southern area which is isolated, where we must cross twice the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, another state to come to part of Croatia. What about Croatian agriculture since we were in the EU or what about Croatian agriculture in 2016? How does a peasant look at that? Seljak sees that there were incentives from the EU through various funds, but they did not come into their pockets, but through the ministry ended up in the pockets of certain tycoons privileged to Croatian society, which destroyed Croatian peasants and Croatian production. What about health care? Is healthcare better than when we are in the EU or in 2016 than in 2017? This does not interest citizens in joining the EU. What about the currency, i.e. What about interest? Is the same bank that owns Italy, example or Hungary, the same interest from that bank in Hungary? No, it's much smaller, 2% while in Croatia it's 7, 8, 10%. So we are in the same community, in the EU and the Croatian people pay more interest. What about undeveloped areas? Did the entry of Croatia and the demographic picture, did we or in 2016 achieve any effects on retention and greater mentality in this area? Compared to 2014 in 2015, 35,000 inhabitants in Croatia are reduced by growth. So only 17,000 were born less than in 2015, compared to 2014. These are policies that interest Croatian citizens. But the most painful thing is that it's the judiciary. How is it possible that we are together with Hungary in the EU without Hernadi responding to the Croatian judiciary? To me as a parliamentary representative, a man who knows less about diplomacy than you and many here who have been in politics so far. I don't understand why Hernadi, if we are in the EU, isn't responding to the Croatian judiciary if we are the same? We didn't. Their policy has made it clear that even from Interpol's drive, Hernadi is being taken down, and we know about the video from lobbying through various lobbyists and through certain people what he did about the INA that was taken by the MOL hostile. He's hostilely taken over MOL INA. What about the industry since we've been in the EU? It has been said that there is no industry, that no selective incentive can be used. The car industry in Germany was encouraged selectively when there was a crisis in the EU, while along with Croatian squares it could not go to the Split square. Which is why it couldn't be stimulated and why ours are now the result is that our experts are welders from the most ordinary worker to the most professional in shipbuilding went out. So, Croatian citizens are mostly interested in young people who leave what the effects of the EU are, which is Croatia in the EU which pays half a billion euros per year for membership, what are the effects on Croatia in 2016. The fact is that we had a government declared by colleagues from the SDP that was the worst in history, that we had the best results. And when the government was gone, we had even better results. And I repeat once again the biggest cancer wound is the judiciary. What about corruption? These are issues that citizens are interested in, and most importantly, this demographic picture of young people leaving us and simply leaving empty spaces, and today in this refugee crisis, at a time when we have epic proportions of people's migration, where billions of people want to come to the EU for various reasons and for war-related areas in North Africa, and in Asia, they want to come to these areas. We are interested in protecting the national interests of the Croatian citizen, optical cables, setting up optical cables in Croatia. Yes, the Germans have helped us very much, thank them for joining the EU, but why would they build it in us, why wouldn't it be Croatian property and why wouldn't we build it? I'm sure we have competent people. Are we going to fight to be owners and not now mention what happened to privatising telecommunications that started partner one and ended partner two? Or with INA started partner, the White Fields started partner two and ended partner one. This all happened at a time when EU accession and, of course, citizens were bitter. But it's not good to go after people who have different attitudes. In my opinion, it is not, because it is necessary to discuss and debate facts regardless of the SDP, HDZ, the Living Wall or any other political option. But our key problem, Mr. Prime Minister, is the Croatian judiciary, which is the European Union's attitude towards the Croatian judiciary in the Hernadia case. It is not clear to me at all, can you explain why he did not come because we are on the EU's bench for the hostile takeover of the INA. And these are the facts since we joined the EU, since it was announced since 2000 that we don't need borders then 25 plus 1 of Racan's shares were handed over to the INA. That's how it happened with telecommunications while an APB for General Ante Gotovina was being called, so the Telecommunications Majority Package was being sold to the Germans. It's a lot less millions and billions than it's worth. I'd like to remind you once again what I asked you this morning. Please stop chapter 23 of the Republic of Serbia. No matter what you say, the fact is they have jurisdiction over Croatian defenders, legal jurisdiction. I repeat, there are heads of the state of Seselj's assistants, Chetniks Vukic and Nikolic. Stop it. Until that changes, don't let them in chapter 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26747	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. He is the first to be respected representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26748	Thank you. Dear Vice President! Comrade Bulj, you mentioned I can say that exactly the European Union provides the opportunity to solve these problems that we have with banks, that I am just grateful that we are in the Union. If we weren't in the Union, we wouldn't be able to solve these problems at all, I have this feeling, even though our laws are entirely on our side. However, on our side, Directive 93/13, on our side, is the EU Court ruling that the contractual provisions, other than having to be grammatically clear, must be such as to suggest that the consequences of the consumer's credit bargaining and interest are high above all because of ourselves. It's our fault that the interest rates are high and they're high because they're illegal because banks manipulate interest rates, the banks themselves, first of all, increased interest rates, and then after the law was passed, which required them to agree on changes in the parameters at interest rates and fixed margins again on their own and non-contractual terms. And in 200,000 loans today, banks are using illegally defined interest parameters. If these interest parameters were returned to the initial amounts, they would be what they should be at the time of each loan, interest rates would fall to 200,000 credits by 2 to 4 percentage points. I have proposed to you as the Mosta and HDZ two laws, and one of these laws concerns interest margins, and you will have the opportunity to resolve the illegal operations of banks in accordance with EU law and EU directives and to reduce interest rates legally, legally and legally to one to four percent in 200 thousand loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26749	Thank you very much. They'll answer, Comrade Bull. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26750	Well, the theme is, I mean, interest. Mr. Alexic, really your work. and the Franak Association has led to the shift of certain, injustice has been corrected but the fact is that we have in Croatia today, which is the problem you know better, the bank that is in Hungary, owns the same interest in Croatia and Hungary. Same bank, we're like in the European Union. It means there's still corruption here. The judiciary, the Constitutional Court that you have commended, I have no right to praise or shame, but I can say that certain things do not work well or justly. It's in the event of a verdict on INA MOL to former Prime Minister Sanader. Personally, it means for your proposal that you said if it's legal I'll never mind and in Croatia it's not possible. in Austria to pass the reiffen loans of a savings credit cooperative as they can in Croatia, and that is a fact. Who protects Croatia's interests in the European Union? Do we even have people who are bold or that we brought in this House what are the strategic national interests of the Republic of Croatia that we will protect, we do not have that document. Well, we don't have a national security and defence document from 2000 yet. It means politics isn't going well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26751	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26752	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just as fellow Bull, we should always look at the data. I am also skeptical and critical when some processes are at stake in the European Union, but look, we are profiteers, we profit. Last year will be 15 years, two years ago we were in plus, 226 million euros we were in plus. Croatia has received more than it has paid. There are countries that are more successful than us, let's say Slovenia was in plus 580m euros, so there are better mechanisms than we are. And these big countries, the successful countries are down. Look, the United Kingdom paid 11.5 billion euros more, Germany 14.3 billion euros more than they got. Therefore, they too can complain. In this case Croatia is profiting, making less payments than it gets. Therefore, for us, the European Union is currently profitable and must remain that way, and it will not stay long because we will not be forever "on the pipe" of the larger successful countries. Another thought you heard from your colleague, Alexic, a citizen's society, everyone can engage and can do something good for this society, and so can counterpart Alexic with the Association "Franak". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26753	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26754	My colleague, you have now listed countries that are so much more developed than the Republic of Croatia, but I am interested in the effects. You're from your constituency, so come on, you haven't been after the election, I know you've been going to those places, so you'll see that they're empty places. It hurts me here, it hurts me that we didn't stop to protect the better part of Croatia's constitutional obligation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that would be the goal of Bosnia and Herzegovina entering the European Union and protecting it. We have empty spaces in the hinterland of Dalmatia where the narrow border is, the places that are sold and now people are some who have defended Herceg Bosnia, Croatian generals in The Hague, left to themselves for a long time. They didn't even fund the printing of documented books. The Croatian people are not just Zagreb. Go and see if you can hear children crying like you used to hear, you heard 38 thousand fewer people and 17 thousand were born less in 2014 compared to 2015. In 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 of 18 December 2015 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the People are leaving. Those are the results. They're running away young. The Slavs are on the run. How much milk production have we had since we were in the European Union? We've invested 5 billion kuna in the production of milk, milk production, and we have 64 thousand dairy producers, we've come to 4 grand. Where does that money go, then? To tycoons. Ask the Minister of Agriculture of the former, and you will see whom the money went to, and these Slavons are gone. It's easy for us to buy cows and cattle. Who's going to watch her in Slavonia? We lose, we lose territory, we become burned ground. That's true. And that story about Germany 10 million euros more or less is fog. It is fog because the real situation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is not as you say Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26755	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26756	Thank you. Well, I'd just like to say to my esteemed colleague Bull, thank you for stopping in defense of the right to speak, and I just want to say to him that the late president, Francis Tudjman, his wartime commander, would certainly not support the idea of a false democracy in which turnout is not crucial and crucial in a referendum that Croatia joins the state union with some other countries. I repeat, the referendum to which gentlemen from the HDZ are constantly called at the will of the people is controversial because that three people came out on it...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26757	.../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Pernar, I take you.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26758	And if only only two were for...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26759	.../Intruder Reiner: I need to draw your attention that you are not talking about the subject again. The theme is not a referendum that happened a few.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26760	And I'm sorry, what are you taking my time for? Which is why every time I talk...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26761	.../Intruder Reiner: I warn you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26762	Sir, stop the clock. You're talking about your monologues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26763	.../Intruder Reiner: I warn you to talk about the topic./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26764	And the man there lets time go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26765	.../Intruder Reiner: I warn you a second time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26766	Please ask your colleagues from the professional service and that...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26767	.../Intruder Reiner: And I take away your word./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26768	Who insults me and calls me crazy...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26769	.../Intruder Reiner: I take away your word./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26770	And you keep taking away my word and that's your HDZ policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26771	.../Intruder Reiner: No non-stop. I'm asking you to leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26772	Thank you. I don't need to talk any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26773	Please leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26774	Here you go. Anything for you, anything for you, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26775	Comrade Bull, come in if you'd like to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26776	I don't think it's good to rape democracy. And I really believe that at that time, I am sorry that Mr Pernar came out, that at that time Parliament unanimously changed the Constitution in the last year before the election to no longer be 50% of the vote needed but there were enough two people and of course there was a revolution in the people and that at that time it was best presented for which to enter the European Union, which is less and why not. And that's how people would certainly judge the Croatian people better then. However, it was as violent as I said, and of course we now have a reflection. At this point, however, the most important thing in Croatia is that in the Homeland War we fought for it, I believe that we have strategic national interests in the framework and the European Union that we must fight for these strategic national interests and protect Croatia from all possible blows, and particularly the high-levels that took place in the event of privatisation, in the case of a preliminary settlement. There was a colleague here, I apologize to those who weren't, who were robbing the unseen proportions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26777	Thank you. That's what we're done with the individual debates. And now the word will be taken on behalf of the promoter, the honourable Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26778	Thank you very much, Vice President Reiner. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Here is my summary after more than 5 hours of debate today on the report on the work of the European Council in 2016 is essentially very simple. It was a good decision to discuss these topics. It is necessary for the Croatian public. It is necessary for the sensitisation and parliamentary representatives to discuss key topics on the European Council. By usual practice, of course, the content of this debate is always evaluating. This has also become a debate on Croatia's membership of the European Union, and on the referendum, and on Serbia, and on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and on the United States, and on privatisation, and on the fight against corruption and on a number of topics that are not necessarily related to the topic of what is the agenda of the European Council. But it's all normal, it's all natural, it's all democracy. However, the aim of these topics is that I hope, through 4 years in Croatia, everyone knows why we are in the European Union, which is the European Union, which is its institutions, which are its policies, what is its budget, what is the role of Croatia as members. I, unlike many actors of this debate, who now ex post question our membership, procedure, referendum, I have participated in this debate for 25, 26 years, since the 20th year I have been able to say through NGOs, student organisations, practices, work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, work in Croatian diplomacy, optics Brussels, Paris, the optics of the secretary of state, the implementation of campaigns for referendum, work in the European Parliament, work in the Croatian Parliament and now as Prime Minister. Almost no frog, no bird's perspective I haven't seen in this subject. And I take the right to know something about this subject, something I know, something it does, something very rational on the basis of knowledge I do something out of conviction, I do it out of conviction and what was mentioned many times about how great a privilege it is to be part of that generation of Croats who enjoy their country, in their independence and in its international positioning. It's all the same connected activity of all of us here. Someone doesn't have to be in love with the legal gain of the European Union, he doesn't have to be in love with a European project, but he needs to see realistically where we as a country today are and we're a member of that European Union for three and a half years. I agree with those who say we can do a thorough analysis which is good, which is not good, which can be better. I'm sure it can. It takes some time. We also did analyses before we joined the European Union. Many of you who now say why something was one way or another before the referendum I must admit I do not remember any of these actors ahead of the referendum but nowhere but I was the only active Croatian politician who did not hesitate to go into the debate you know who in the Croatian Journalist Society in 2011, with Nigel Farage representative in the European Parliament, the man who first came to Croatia then and came to us to prove that this is essentially a bad goal, that we do not have to enter the European Union, that this is not good. This same Farage has received enormous political space from Cameron's mistake in organising a referendum and has now become a major actor who decides on global issues. We didn't make that mistake. The referendum was legitimate, first of all, and it was legal, and it was constitutional. The constitutional changes we made ahead of membership in the European Union were numerous. Some of them were necessary, necessary, there were some that I disagree with today, we limited the democratic representation of Croats outside Croatia to three fixed representatives. I am against it, I do not see that we have done with this a service in terms of the thesis between the unity of the country and the evicted Croatia and the encouragement of our people to vote in the elections of those living outside Croatia. Technology will advance, there is no dilemma that in the future it will be able to vote both by letter and electronically. There will be a way for it to be, then the participation of our citizens from abroad will be greater. But what is important and what I want to stress today is when we talk about debate and dialogue with political opponents, opponents of different goals and ambitions, I will always advocate what I believe in and try to beat a political opponent in the elections. This is the kind of reasoned culture of dialogue and debate I think we have already held in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. I will do so both during this term and as party leader and as Prime Minister. And the European values and our role in the European process will always defend the argumentant against demagogy, against incorrect information, against the fabrication of topics, the fabrication of conclusions that today, the communication time where all very lapidarians receive news and few of them have time to read a little deeper or go below the surface leave a mark in perception. That's why this debate is good, so over the next few years, we're going to prove who's telling the right information, who's behind them and who's telling the wrong information. And this kind of political pedagogy as the French often say is very useful for Croatian society and our democratic dialogue and also for the respect of the Croatian Parliament as institutions and its roles in this process. The parliamentary committees have important competences and important roles in individual European Union policies and communication with the executive authorities, but do not have the media attention such as the session of the plenary Croatian Parliament. And that is why we can use both forms of cooperation and forms of dialogue both before and after different sessions of European institutions where we advocate our views, and also those reports that are on our own initiative on the agenda of the European Parliament, as some MPs here have said. What I want to point out, so the European Council only meets a few times a year, it is not the Government of the European Union, it is a co-legislator together with the European Parliament if we already compromise and analogy watch who the Government is, then it is the European Commission. And that's just as important to know, and it can be understood how important it is to interpret and explain what a European project is and what its institutions are, something that may seem to be an alphabet and not everyone is. And that's what to say. What I want to say as priorities in the future in the work of the European Council, we can freely say is faced with the kind of challenges that he has not yet had, negotiations should be organised on the coming out of a large member, a member who is a permanent member of the Security Council, who, with France, has the greatest allocations for European defence. The Union with and without the United Kingdom won't be the same, and that requires a lot of thinking, a lot of analysis, a lot of adjustment, and in a budgetary sense, and it will feel that way. Make sure that a dozen of the most developed members finance 80% of the European budget. It will have its consequences for us too. However, when it comes to the benefits of membership I think they are multiple, they are multiple in terms of belonging to European values, they are multiple in strengthening the legal system with all the deficits and imperfections that we have in our legal system. I am convinced that he is much better than he was before 2013 and he is certainly much better than some MPs evoked the times before 1989 or 1990. Sometimes a man gets the impression he's watching that '78 show. which was called "The Full Couple" when he listens to someone's debate in this Croatian High House, that's cute, that's a joke. But we are here in 2017 with responsibility for the future, for building consensus on strategic topics, which is why we are conducting this dialogue, which is why I found it almost more lively today than yesterday at the current morning. That is why I said if someone has a quality, better, more constructive proposal for major strategic issues ahead of us that we must decide together both at the level of the Government and the Croatian Parliament let's talk about. I will read with interest what ideas the biggest opposition party has analyzed on the round table today. I can't be in two places, but I'll study them. There must be ideas that can be useful. And so, what I'm saying is that on relations with neighbouring countries, let's not turn every European debate into repeating a number of open issues with neighbours. Croatia solves them, has to solve them and will solve them. When it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that on many occasions everyone could see how many times we were the first to support its integrity, its integrity, its quality of functioning and its commitment to Croatian people's rights as constitutional. Keep in mind that we have certainly helped here the president of the HDZ of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatian National Assembly and a member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina at this very time last year, while he was the chairman of the Presidency to be the one who would leave a formal application for membership in the hands of the President of the Netherlands then a little less than a year ago as a clue that the initiative of the Croatian political representative and Bosnia and Herzegovina had made that step. This happened with the support of both the Government and parliamentary diplomacy and the representatives of the European Parliament. And we will continue that path because we think it is good for Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is good for Croatia, that it is good for Croats as a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also for other two peoples and all who live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. About Serbia and the negotiations, I think we were quite clear here. Serbia needs to meet the criteria, there are many residual issues from the time of Milosevic's massive Serbian aggression on Croatia, they are here with us, we live today 25, 26 years later and they must be resolved. The negotiation process is there as an instrument to help and speed up the resolution of these problems, from the missing ones we also talked about two days ago in this House, from the issue of the border, the issue of the hybrid regional jurisdiction of their Law on the jurisdiction of the Serbian state institutions to the processing of war crimes to the protection of minorities, their representation, education, culture. These are all topics that are on the agenda and which are on the table of our dialogue. Croatia must be confident, self-aware in its position which is very stable, stable and in security terms as a member of the North Atlantic Union, stable and in a valuable sense, politically as a member of the European Union, stable and in terms of determining important political issues governing relations with neighbours, but also principled when it comes to the values of international order, the universal values shared with the international community. And that's why we're not going to have any dilemmas about such issues, especially issues like the situation in Ukraine, whether or not they're going to tell us whether it cost us something or not. It didn't cost us anything. A system that exists within the meaning of restrictive measures of the European Union exists with or without a visit from one of the Presidents of the Government of Ukraine. On the contrary, we should be proud to contribute in the most constructive way towards peace and respect for international law, and that is the key, counterpart Klisovic, I think that we both went through a lot of games in a similar way and I believe that respect for international law is one of the common values behind which we can stand. And that is why I will advocate on the European Council that Croatia, in accordance with its role, according to its size and its weight on that body, makes a pertinent contribution exactly the way it should on those topics where we are strong and that in those broad themes we are as principled as the issue of migration policy. And the economic benefits, financial benefits from membership in the European Union, we will only be able to assess when this budgetary framework is completed, this seven-year financial perspective ends. Then we will draw the line and see how good we were at absorption, how well we used European policies, how well we transposed our legislation, how strong our institutions are to implement them and how much legal entities and natural persons are willing to take advantage of all that is available to us, from the employment of young people, freedom of movement, education, Erasmus plus or other activities. There are disproportionate opportunities that countries like ours with our situation before membership in the European Union can only help us, they cannot help us. We can help ourselves eventually. But this context, this frame that we've all left behind. Remember, colleagues sitting here before you unanimously ratified the Treaty of Accession of the European Union, unanimously. And the support we received from most of the Croatian people in the referendum, and then it was the result of a public debate, not a referendum organised on speed, the debate lasted two years. I've had the honour of going through all the county, all the institutions, academic, professional, chambers, media, schools, colleges. There's no institution in which I wasn't in the process. And just because I did it, I know how hard it is to do that kind of communication. I'll tell you one detail from the analysis then. All institutions together as many as there are – governments, NGOs, international or domestic in 20 years of efforts to bring these topics closer to the Croatian people we have come by numerous analyses of only 10% of our population – all together, which means that only 1 out of 10 people you meet here in the city on the road are in a position to be in a room while one of these or similar discussions is being conducted. These are your realities, and that's why it's important that we talk about it. There is also a very important role and responsibility for the public of the Croatian Parliament. I will come back as soon as the next European Council is finished. There'll be other topics then. The fact that we have informally before that in Malta, then this anniversary in Rome in new circumstances, probably at the time of the United Kingdom's notification of the results of the referendum, imposes debate and plenary session of the Parliament and parliamentary committees to lead a thorough debate and contribute to the politics and attitudes of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26779	Thank you very much. We've got a line on this one, too. The esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26780	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. So we have now heard in this final presentation of the prime minister that the Croatian referendum on the accession of the European Union was therefore correct, that it was a reasonable decision, but at the same time the referendum on the exit from the European Union of Great Britain was the prime minister's mistake. So I don't understand how such different criteria can be applied in the assessment of the same thing. So the referendum is a referendum. If ours is legal and theirs is legal. He's not the prime minister's fault. So we could now say on the basis of this analogy that the referendum on entering the European Union was the mistake of Prime Minister Milanovic who allowed it, and it did not. I still don't understand why we must therefore enter some of the internal affairs of the countries which, let's say, are frankly powers like Russia or like the UK and now we comment on their coming out of the European Union as some kind of mistake. Well, Great Britain is a cradle of democracy. Great Britain is 50 times the economic strength of Croatia. There are 20 times as many people. Do we really think that this nation was the hostage of one man so his name was Prime Minister or I don't know how? I think we should remind again of President Trump's statement, which is that some other countries will leave the European Union. Well, I would ask perhaps the Prime Minister knows more because he is communicating with the European Council to tell us what countries these are, which are countries that will still have some prime ministers who will make mistakes that will again, like some dictators from history, be able to decide on behalf of the entire people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26781	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26782	Dear Representative Bunjac, I believe that politics, governments have a kind of privilege, which is to make political decisions and make political choices. Prime Minister Cameron's mistake is that he decided to organise a referendum. That's what I'm saying, that's what I've been thinking for the last 3 years since his speech where he made it public because he wanted to solve the problem first and foremost within his own party that slipped off in one direction that we see now that she left the European People's Party and that family in 2009. And that's what I'm saying is it's wrong because he's given his decision to the political space for the manipulators and those who admit themselves that they were speaking false in a referendum campaign like Nigel Parage to convince unfortunately too many British voters to say no. The same British had a referendum in '75 and they said yes. It was their third referendum in the history of their political culture. So the public and voters get used to that institute. They're not Switzerland, and that's why the result was the way it was, with 72% of the people going out on a referendum. In Italy 68. Score 40, 60 repeat. The point I'm talking about is the other way around. He was doing a referendum for which there was no need. We were working on a referendum that we believe was necessary, that it was good to get the support of most Croatian voters and most of the Croatian people for a strategic decision that puts us in a position in the international arena in the long term. And I am glad that I was the one who led that campaign that we won, and the referendum fell only on time at the beginning of the mandate of the then government to the Kukurik coalition, but the whole campaign and the whole preparation was made earlier than the government and the government that also negotiated Croatian membership in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26783	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this report. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and his associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26784	We are now going to vote on the debated points. The first is the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held during 2016. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Clubs, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Club of Representatives of the HDS, the HSLS, the HDSB and the Club of Representatives of the Working and Solidarity, the Reformist and Independent Representatives, I am giving the following conclusion: the reports of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on meetings of the European Council held during 2016 shall be accepted. Please include the vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I find that, most 112 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 2 against, we have adopted reports by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held during 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26785	We'd move on to the next point. I suggest we unite the next two points. So, I suggest we unify - the final proposal of the Law on the acquisition of registration of weapons of citizens, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 55; - Final proposal of the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 54; Do you agree to unite this debate? I see that mostly, everyone's getting positive, so we agree. Okay. Thanks for the compliment. Okay. So we're going to unite the discussion of these two laws. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204, 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material is delivered in boxes, the contributions to the bill are not multiplied but are found on the Croatian Assembly website. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted the proposal by the Proposer on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda for these legislative proposals to be discussed under an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate on both laws was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. As far as I can see, the secretary of state will do so in the MUP, Mrs. Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26786	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, the proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens Excuse me. [[A little louder, please.]] The proposal for a Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, with certain improvements, regulates only part of the matter from the applicable Arms Act, which refers to the procedure for the purchase and registration of arms supplied by citizens for civil use, and the way in which they are handled by these weapons and ammunition. Part of the matter of the applicable Arms Act relating to arms activities shall be regulated by the proposal of the Explosive Substances Act, and the supervision of the production and transport of weapons referred to in the adoption procedure together with the proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens. The relevant Arms Act has adopted the provisions of the Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons, so that the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons is not adopted for the purpose of the obligation to take over the provisions of the Directive but primarily for the regulation of matter under the applicable Law on Weapons through two new laws. One of the papers adopted by the proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens is the definition of the justification of the reason for the supply of weapons for personal safety. According to the draft law, the legitimate reason for the supply of personal security is that there is a person who demonstrates that its personal security is compromised or could be endangered to such an extent that it needs arms for its insurance, and that the activities and measures of the security institutions or other measures could not provide sufficient protection. As evidence that her personal safety is compromised or could be compromised to such an extent, that she needs weapons for her insurance, the person must indicate the specific reports of attacks or threats reported by the police and recorded in police records. This aims to reduce the number of citizens who acquire weapons for personal safety because the Republic of Croatia as a rule of law has mechanisms to protect every citizen. In order to obtain weapons supplied by citizens for hunting or sports shooting, it is not necessary to prove the justification of the reasons for the purchase but to attach sufficient documents to show that a person is engaged in hunting or sports shooting. The proposed law seeks to simplify and speed up the procedure in the event of a request to obtain additional quantities of weapons being submitted by a person who already has a valid arms list. In that case, it will be checked whether a person in criminal or criminal records is being conducted and whether a criminal or criminal offence or a criminal offence which would be an obstacle to the possession of a weapon, but who will not be required to collect additional information from the police on the person because the previous purchase of the weapon has already been carried out for him. This will avoid unnecessary administration and contribute to the economics of the procedure, since the first requirement for the supply of weapons has checked all the necessary conditions for supply. And in the event of a subsequent initiation of a misdemeanor or criminal proceedings against the owner of a weapon that makes it an obstacle to the possession of a weapon, the process of confiscation of a weapon will be carried out. According to the proposal of this law, weapons temporarily seized in administrative proceedings as a criminal or criminal offence has been brought against the owner of the weapon, the owner will have to sell or donate only after the power of decision taken in a criminal or criminal proceedings in which he is convicted of criminal offences and offences. In this way, it will avoid the situation so far that, after the power of a solution to the confiscation of the weapons brought into the administrative procedure, the owner will be deprived of the weapons as his property and, later, in a legally concluded criminal or criminal proceedings, of the criminal offence or of the offence for which the proceedings have been conducted against him. One of the newspapers on the proposal of this law is that citizens with weapons registered for hunting or sports are allowed to fill themselves with ammunition for their own purposes and to obtain ammunition components on the basis of a valid weapons list registered for hunting or sports purposes. Furthermore, the bill provides more precise conditions under which sports shooting organisations can borrow weapons to their members. Sports shooting organisations can thus lend arms to their members, regardless of which they do not have the authority to obtain weapons or weapons, but are obliged to notify the competent police department before borrowing the weapons or the station to verify that a member of the sports shooting organisation meets the general conditions that a person must fulfil for the possession of a weapon. If it is established that a member of a sports shooting organisation does not meet those conditions, a sports shooting organisation shall not lend him arms. This will avoid the situation that a sports shooter is recorded if he is registered as a criminal or criminal offender who poses an obstacle to weapons possession, and a sports shooting organisation lends him weapons because there is no knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26787	Thank you very much. You can talk about explosive substances right now because we said we'd unite the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26788	Thank you. Proposal for a Law on Explosive Substances and Production and Transport of Weapons. This law regulates the areas of production, transport, use and transport of explosive substances, as well as the production, transport and transport of weapons. These areas are now governed by three laws, the Law on Explosive Substances, the Law on Weapons, and the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances. In order to amend and supplement the Directive on the placing on the market of explosive substances for economic use, it is necessary to amend this legislation in order to comply with that Directive. The deadline for the transposition of this Directive was 20 April 2016. However, on the basis of the supervision of the implementation of the rules currently in force which regulate those areas, it is concluded that, in addition to the need to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation, it is necessary to develop or improve regulations and to facilitate economic activities related to those areas. It also concluded that some parts of the area are not at all regulated or incompletely arranged, which also calls for intervention in those regulations. Furthermore, the supervision of the implementation of those regulations as well as the communication with the responsible persons of companies dealing with economic activities governed by those regulations has been concluded that the regulation of those areas would, instead of so far, make it much easier for three companies to operate, but would also ensure a much better control of explosive substances of arms, and unification in one law on both fair and related, and the complexity of the area of production and transport of weapons and explosive substances. The following four basic reasons for the adoption of this law may be provided. The first reason is to bring the Republic of Croatia's rules into line with the new EU directive on the placing of explosive substances on the market. The second reason is to edit areas that are not fully regulated as such. Manufacture of weapons of category A. Thirdly, the unification into one law of the now applicable Law on Explosive Substances, part of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances and parts of the Law on Weapons relating to the activities of companies in the transport and transport of weapons. Ensuring more complete control of weapons and explosive substances is the fourth reason to achieve better regulation of the area of production and transport of explosive substances. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26789	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Josip Krizanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned a reasonable reason for the supply of weapons. I'd rather we didn't have to talk about it at all. Justified reasons for the supply of weapons, therefore, I would prefer that we do not have to discuss the reason in general, however, and it would be best if there were no assumptions in the Croatian state at all for this reason. However, as long as we have to talk, I would very much like to hear from you in the ministry whether we have certain studies or analyses of the perpetrators of the crime or of the offenders involved in the firearms that were on the record, so those who are illegals and those who have the rights of the perpetrator of the crime. Maybe that's why some time... You understand what I'm talking about? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So maybe that's why sometimes it's better to soften the law and loosen the conditions and the reasons for the supply of weapons to the owners and then keep them under surveillance. A much worse option is the rigid law that has resulted in the illegal arming of the public. Of course, in this case, corrective measures should be extremely strict and abuse of the holding of weapons and the committing of criminal offences should be rigorous and drastic. So once again, I ask you to answer me if we have inside the Ministry that record so that we can discuss as much as possible in these justified reasons for the supply of weapons as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26791	Thank you very much. Answer the esteemed secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26792	So, from the records, it turns out that out of the crimes committed, or crimes committed by the use of firearms, about 80% were committed by illegal weapons and 20% by legal weapons. But I would also like to point out that these amendments of the law don't really change the conditions, so the justifiable reason is that so far there has to be a reason for the supply of self-defense weapons. The newspaper in this article is merely to draw closer to defining what is the just cause. So the justifiable reason for equating the practice of approval and as some kind of tool to the commission which decides whether there is a legitimate reason or not. Because a valid reason for you can be one, for me can be another. The intensity was to sort out how to generally assess whether there was a valid reason or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26793	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26794	Dear Vice President, I think that the only objective of this law is its unwarranted objective because it was brought only for one reason to disarm the Croatian people who justifiably armed in 91st year for a threat. So they've all legalized that weapon now, and now they'd have to hand over that weapon to someone. I personally bought a pump for 1,500 marks at that time to defend myself against those who illegally had weapons, which they got from JNA. And another thing about destroying collective weapons or blinding would lead to that weapon losing its value both historically and culturally and... the other. Also, we are witnessing that the police in practice never bring weapons to anyone who reports that he is in danger or that he is in real danger or that he is not in any way already taking away weapons and the person who is in danger and the person who threatens him. So I think this whole law would need to be passed once again by experts who are very much in our Croatia who will bring real predisposition to this law at all. And everything that comes to us from the EU doesn't have to be applied to us so literally given our environment. ... They're not looking, then there's no need. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26795	Thank you. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we'd go to clubs. I'm going to ask earlier if the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it. No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, will be spoken by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26796	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to continue this debate, which is kind of being tied up to this previous one. Namely, it has to do with the EU, and it is about obtaining weapons registration, ammunition and its use. First of all, I want to say that I have neither weapons nor want to have weapons and that I generally support any meaningful disarmament, any intention of making weapons as small as possible and the people as safe as possible. However, I repeat the word comprehensively, and here it seems to be about selective disarmament. Because if we hand over weapons like Agent Culej said, there is still someone who only has a question of who they are and whether they are well-intentioned to Croatian citizens. And we see in the very head of this law that he comes from the EU, that this law is not made in Croatia, but that he actually came from outside and we have to wonder what the real intentions of this law are. Because when we go to read the bill we see such restrictive measures, such restrictions on weapons possession, that at some point I was afraid that I wouldn't know I'd have to hand over the cutlery because under this law I might have to answer for the attempted terrorism. Because we here read that I don't even know about sports people, like sports shootings, biathlons, or people who do collection perhaps by collecting some museum exhibits come in danger of being punished and very rigorous as people with dangerous intentions. Moreover, people who possess weapons are forced to pay very expensive and unnecessary costs, and it is concluded that the ultimate objective of this law is to give people weapons at all costs. So what's suspicious about it? It's suspicious that when we looked a little through history the request to surrender the weapon came exclusively from dictators who had bad intentions. The call to hand over weapons usually meant the introduction to dictatorship and, frankly, to genocide. In 1929, the weapons had to be handed over to the citizens of the Soviet Union. In 1935, the weapons had to be handed over to the citizens of Nazi Germany. Chinese during Mao Ce-tung, citizens of the Ottoman Empire. What were the intentions of those who proposed such laws. We saw them and we know them. There was therefore the suppression of democracy and millions and millions of dead people. If you don't believe historical examples from other countries, it's enough to remember in 1991 when Croatian weapons of territorial defense were taken away as if there were no war, and it was taken away just to start a war. So you're handing over weapons to be peace, and that's what those who wanted to cause war did. And those who were in '91. years young, and there are those here in this assembly remember how many volunteers who wanted to defend Croatia like Mr. Culej were desperately trying to get at least one hunting rifle, but they had nowhere to get it. And how helpful it would be if Croatian citizens had at least a few weapons. But be careful, mentally sound citizens and well-intentioned citizens if they had at least a few weapons, it would probably have been less painful for Croatia and the defense would have been as effective and faster. So, apparently this confiscation of weapons will protect us citizens from some hidden danger, I don't know from terrorism. But you tell me if a terrorist is afraid of me when I have a weapon or if I don't have one. Do I encourage him by handing over a weapon or am I basically refusing to attack him? Can I be absolutely sure of someone's intentions? Do you feel safer when there is a guard on the door, or do you think it needs to be removed, because there may be weapons? What is the morale of the people without weapons? Do these people feel braver with more self - respect or feel more insecure, intimidated. Who can stop it? It's enough, if people don't have guns, nobody who can stop some terrorist attack tomorrow, some threat, an occupation, anything? It says here in the bill that I have to prove that I was personally threatened. I'll take it now, you've got that newspaper I see you're reading because you don't want to hear what others are saying and open the paper and read what's in the paper. A terrorist attack in Berlin, a terrorist attack in Istanbul, a terrorist attack in Paris, threats from Serbia, we'll kill Croats I don't know, etc. Is this a threat to me personally, or must I not know if I write I threaten Branimir Bunjac and let him defend himself? So that's one side, one medal of this arms law that I would trust, I repeat once again, that it was created in this House and that a public debate was held. And what law was not under the urgent procedure why no public debate was conducted? Then you might as well accept it. But this kind of click in my head, I wonder if Croatia has this bill, if there is some hidden intention, is there, say, in these amendments to the law, we can even see that some parts of the Croatian Constitution are being violated, let's say, the confiscation of weapons without compensation. What right? This Regulation shall enter The constitution has it all under your clubs, private property is inalienable. Who has the right to confiscate someone's private property, not to pay him any compensation, for example.? Therefore, I think that such a bill is not good in some way, that it has been adopted in haste, that there has not been enough concern for all aspects that arise from this law, that there has been no public debate and for this reason I believe that this law should be seriously improved in cooperation with those who are going to be concerned, and these are primarily Croatian citizens. That would be a short one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26797	To avoid as you yourself said a click in your head we also have an official suggestion that this law goes into two readings. Hence, it is likely that some of the colleagues who will discuss this in this regard will also speak so that there is a written proposal to go in two readings. ... Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26798	So, Mr. Vice President, you have now explained to your colleagues that there is an official suggestion that the law goes into two readings. According to Article 206. Rules of Procedure, and both laws are P.Z.E. that I can propose this by the Committee on the Constitution, so the club cannot suggest that an emergency procedure under Article 206 be removed from this law, so it might be a good idea to explain that we do not have a problem voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26799	I agree, but there is a plenary session, and there is a plenary session to actually express the opinions of different clubs and individuals on some law. And it is likely that the discussion will bring out then the smartest conclusion, whether to go to one reading urgently as suggested, or perhaps it is better to go in two readings and introduce changes that will be suggested and that will obviously come. Okay, well, I can think that I can do that, except for the board, and the parliamentary representatives can show it in their discussion. I know it's actually a committee that should propose, but maybe eventually the board and propose on the basis of the debate that's going to develop today. But let's go to the replicas, after all, to the presentation of colleagues of Bunjca, there are more replicas. He is a well-respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26800	A fellow Bunjac with one part of your debate can agree and only in the part where you were looking for exactly what was just before and Vice President of the Parliament said that this law would be good to implement through two readings and removed this urgency from him. It was your introduction to the debate in this speech that showed the real situation of thinking about a law like this. You seem to have told me that you don't own weapons and that in that part you don't understand and that you're about to take that weapon away to have as few weapons as possible. A large number of us here, among other things, have owned it for over 30 years, have had the honour of being a member of the Association's many mandates that numbered over a hundred members who all owned weapons. So this is one complex topic to discuss, but it is your speech and your debate on this subject that shows that many people who are discussing this issue and are taking it as a right are not sufficiently addressed to the problem they're talking about. And for this very reason it is good and it will be good if the urgency of this law is removed, the arguments of all those groups, the institutions of this country that can call it that, and these are among other things the Croatian Hunting Union and the Croatian Shooting Union and the people who deal with this problem, and which is one of the basic funds I will be free to say so for work. So weapons are not necessarily evil, weapons, and when we discuss the European directive here, it is also going in this direction to impose greater weight on that illegal part of weapons possession rather than on those weapons that are legal. And this very information about how many crimes or abuses were minor compared to everything that's going on with something that's illegal. The very tendency of this law should also go in the direction that it is illegally contained and that in that part of the law, it is strict and not the part where it is legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26801	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26802	Thank you. Dear counterpart Klaric that in fact you are right, this law should be handled with caution, we should still agree not only here in the Assembly but also the general public, and what I said in my opening statement, so what you have now said is that the issue of weapons should actually be addressed comprehensively because this remains the impression that I repeat healthy and well-meaning people disarm, so those who possess legal weapons and on the other hand do not solve the problem of those who have evil intentions and who actually own weapons illegally. I've seen some statistics and I've been amazed that there may be up to 500 thousand illegal weapons in Croatia, and now here we are in a situation that needs to be taken, I don't know the Guns of the Shooting Union, I don't know the Biathlons, here we have paintball league. So as far as I could see from the amendments to this law as soon as it's a weapon, as soon as that trigger mechanism is on some device, it automatically passes into a dangerous weapon and must be taken away. So in fact, it seems to me that this is about some awkwardness that I believe in ultimately this House of the High should be done before the final adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26803	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26804	Dear Vice President, my colleague Bunjac, except for a couple of parolees you pulled from, I don't know where I can read from this law about some kind of disarmament of citizens. I don't know what you pulled it from, where you saw it. You were talking about some kind of ex post or extra costs imposed on gun collectors. I would ask you what these are new costs that do not exist now and which are forced by this law to say specifically not to talk about paroles of disarmament of Croatia, that there are some hidden intentions. In which exact article of this law imposes some new monetary obligations on those who possess weapons. And you also said, so you haven't read this law at all, and what he's proposing is that this law is counter-constitutional because it plans to take away people's weapons without giving them any compensation and it's against the constitution because people are taking away their property. So did you read what it says here? This proposal for a law makes it more clear that, without the right to compensation, the confiscation of weapons established in the registration procedure has not been examined and marked in accordance with the regulations or cannot be proved to be of origin. It's an illegal weapon from a fellow Bunyan. Better inform yourself, do not engage in steam, make concrete proposals, turn to these articles of the law that you consider not good and do not talk about some kind of disarmament of Croatia, that someone intends to disarm our citizens and hide some hidden intentions behind this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26805	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26806	Thank you very much, esteemed representative of the bush. I don't know, I have to ask you who you're arguing with? But the law is in my hands, here if you don't see it all written out by my remarks and remarks of experts. So you think I fell off Mars in this House and now what I'm thinking is I'm saying, I don't care if it's a debate or not, which is the point of the agenda or not. I'll show you, we'll put the amendment to that part where private property is taken away, which clearly shows this article of the law that you proposed even though you didn't propose it and you act smart as if it were. Among other things, it says here that one who guards the weapon must put watch out for the doorway to the room in which the weapon is located. Do you know how much the door costs? 20 thousand kuna with an installation. Well, normally, if someone has a gun I don't know is worth two, three thousand kunas, and they have to put a 20 grand door in that gun, they'd just rather hand it over than spend it. So who's got that kind of money today? And you're saying that then this law is not restrictive. I don't know, you probably didn't read the law. You mean by suggesting you know everything about him. And you don't know, I'm telling you. Why did he send me an e-mail today from the Croatian Hunting Union? What's this about? When you've worked it all out in detail that there are no objections, say there are 70,000 hunters in Croatia. Now tell them in person that they don't know the same thing as you do to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26807	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26808	Dear President, this is how you fellow Bunjac as a pacifist rightly and you do not have to have weapons, not your neighbor, not your colleague, not Pernar, no one else, but there is someone awake who will have them and he will also be in charge of your safety. Once upon a time in our Croatia and the former Yugoslavia to get a gun, the Croat had to have five signatures from Radeta, Manet, and I don't know who else to get some hunting rifle on one barrel not on two, don't God give me that he could go hunting. Now that our citizens are armed, someone in a series of different laws and conditions that he proposes would take that same thing away from them through that doorway or other ways. And I'd ask from this place, there used to be a Minister Shime Lucin who used to step on 7000-euro dry rifles there only crushed them for television cameras, for copies. While we are witnessing that in the service of weapons sometimes beautiful specimens that are expensive know the exception, put on the sidelines and simply evaporate, they disappear. It destroys the lesser weapon, the inappropriate one that is not a visual specimen, and it is shown to the public. This weapon that's nicer, better, better quality and more expensive goes through some other channels, and in this I'm looking for an example and I'm showing it here, I've already repeatedly shown that there are 150 missing pieces of weapons in the Varazdin Police Department. It's still an unconfirmed exact number. I've said it more than once here and Minister Ranko Ostojić, that was two years ago. Imagine the investigation is still under way. They haven't figured out where 100, 150, 200 even went missing, who knows how many pieces of weaponry. Where's that weapon? With what purpose? Who will use that weapon and we, Ranko Ostojić, sits there every other, third day and there is no one to ask him. Will our current Minister Orepic ask him, or will he continue his paths or the paths of Sima Lucin? I'd ask that all of us here where the weapons from the Varazdin Police Department ended. First and last time I'm gonna do it here again, I'm not gonna do it again, I'm gonna move on to my Uncle's colleague, let him deal with it, it's his county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26809	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26810	Thank you. I'm not going to replicate much to you since I don't want to discuss Mr. Ostojić, but what I'm saying is, I agree that I'm a pacifist, I know how to handle it with a lot of guns, but I don't want him. And I agree with this idea that you said, so guns should have mentally healthy people, I don't mind. I think it's still such a time of civilization, it's simply a matter of having a weapon to protect the citizens. The dangers are as they are and on that side, so the Arms Act is as necessary as only weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26811	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26812	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bunjac. So, in your debate, you went to the beginning of the Homeland War. Of course, here's a colleague, Culey, like he said, and my late uncle bought me a winchester 357 so he could go to war as a student. I didn't have the money to buy my own gun. Afterwards, he gave that rifle, gave it to the person who had the license and took over. I don't have a gun myself. I have a lot of friends who are hunters, who have guns. I have some acquaintances who also have these weapons for personal use. So they probably had to at the ministry prove it. And I can't see, from your debate, I've been worried that you're taking care of the safety of the citizens if their weapons are taken away. However, weapons possession is not a fundamental human right. It's a right that is specifically right, but we must also think of those citizens who have no weapons. Therefore, all those with weapons must be completely healthy, completely secure, stable persons who know how to handle these weapons and thus provide security for many others. And in this law, I haven't seen what you're afraid of. However, you extended the debate and said it was also a danger to defend the country. I assure you, not a single hunting carbine with the best optics, not one as a real professional sniper. You can't say this way that the safety of this country will be better if people arm themselves. It depends on the weapons, and now you've said in your tail that you're handling your weapons well. I've been to JNA and there I've really learned to handle... Arms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I won the first Kalashnikov in the war, I had to show some colleagues who didn't know. In addition, the education of arms handling is important. It used to be defense and protection, and today we don't even have within the subject of technical culture we don't actually have the training of young people to handle weapons. Perhaps in this direction you should think, for besides having a weapon, it is important to have a very quality and well-handling with it, and then legal provisions that will determine that this weapon is being handled knowingly and responsibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26813	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26814	Yeah, you mentioned your youth, obviously we're the same age. The truth is that in that former system, even in elementary school, we had an object that taught us to defend the country, we used weapons, and we even had combat shootings in the 7th grade of elementary school on the so-called. Camping, I don't know if you've been through this. Now according to this law it has gone so far that the weapon must no longer be held in hand by anyone who is not 21 years old which is a violation of the Constitution again because citizens are 18 years old and not 21. So it's also a question of what's next next, when they're going to rise to 24 years or I don't know how much. And on that side, so we're seeing another one, let's say maybe the illogicality in this law where we really should think about whether we're increasing the country's safety or we're actually weakening it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26815	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I would only look back on part of your debate and I think that in some ways this disarmament is too sharp a formula, but it basically comes down to it. Because it's incomplete what you said, that you need to prove the threat. Not only do you have to prove it, but the police have to confirm that she has these threats recorded so you can get it. Practically no one can get a weapon anymore. That's one thing. Another correction would be most of these provisions, as proposed in this law does not require the EU, but is our domestic invention. On the third hand, the public debate was formally because both hunting alliances and the shooting alliance made a series of objections but unfortunately most of these remarks or key remarks were not adopted. So this law, by its own spirit, is simply not appropriate and needs to be processed and processed by its intensities and by what it does.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26817	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Srtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26818	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Comrade Bunjac, you've given us a number of reasons why our citizens would be entitled to carry arms. Among other things, one of the essential features of the state's regulation is the right of citizens to own weapons, while democratically arranged states allow, under certain conditions, their citizens to bear arms, means to pass a health check, to be trained to handle it. Totalitarian regimes, the ruling party, the ruling dynasty or the military pound reserve that right only that they are armed. This law allows all our citizens to have the right to arms, but if they respect certain conditions. It's a medical examination, you gave members of hunting associations, sports shooting alliances, that they were trained to handle it, etc. Among other things, the goal and the state should be to have weapons records in their area, and you can only do that if you give, for example, the law of regulation that they are not too restrictive. If we look back at the biggest crimes in tens of years, they were committed on Europe's ground by a truck in Nice where more than 80 innocent people were killed or if you want the United States where nearly three thousand Americans were killed in an attack by passenger planes. So if someone wants to hurt someone, they'll always find a way. So I think that, for starters, this law is good, let's say, but that it needs to be done, it needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26819	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26820	I agree in this section that in fact the law needs to be completed and I would like to be here if possible during the debate I did not prepare myself, perhaps my colleague Grumoja will help me to determine how many crimes of injury, killings in Croatia were made with legal weapons and how illegal. I remember eventually if there were a few suicides with a legal weapon, but almost the vast majority of crimes committed with illegal weapons. So we want to punish those who have not done anything wrong about the law in this way, while at the same time we do not have a clear solution to how to really protect Croatian citizens. Indeed, some new security issues are being raised at this time, indeed, the citizens of Europe have had to worry about for the last ten years. We see that all countries have in some way come to the agenda for mass murders and casualties, and for this reason I also call once again for a comprehensive solution to the issue of weapons, and in fact to work first and foremost to ensure that citizens are protected and that those who are really committing crimes are punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26821	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26822	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Secretary of State. I'm going to try some kind of brief presentation just to tell the SDSS's point of view of this bill. I would say right away at the beginning that the promoters have made a great deal of effort to define in the specific legal text the specific regulation and definition of weapons procurement and registration as a special segment, which I think is a good thing. The fact that you singled out in this legal text from the overall issue that is on the agenda today is very good for me because it needs to be regulated so separately. I don't think it's about taking away any weapons in principle, but it's about intensifying the system that the weapons that are assumed to be legally placed under control, to be recorded, to simplify the process of obtaining permits for some new weapon and simply bring order into possession and use of this dangerous thing. If it's legal, I'm not going to pollute about it. From pure logic, illegal weapons possession enters the sphere of criminal responsibility and is a whole other topic than this subject, in my opinion. I would immediately refer to the Vice-President's suggestion because it is, in principle, our real objection to this legal text, therefore, an emergency procedure. Now it has already become a rule in some way that we are passing all our laws by emergency procedure, where we remember some other discussions and some other times when the emergency procedure was an exceptional case, and everything went in two readings. Important texts are important issues, social issues have been discussed in three readings. We think it's a way to go and it's not good that we gave up on that practice just because, I remember that in the last term or the last one, we had an interpretation that we had to do this for every legal proposal that has a P.Z.E. code. If that's the rule, I can agree with it, or I can accept it, but I disagree. I think that this serious matter takes a little time, a little wider public debate than the one the ministry has spent on the Internet, so a more serious public debate, a social word, social criticism should be heard in a slightly wider way. You did satisfy the form through the online debate, 15 days lasted, there were individuals who had said their opinion, of course and the relevant institution as the Croatian Hunting Union had said its opinion, you are the largest part of those remarks you could even say and accept not to refuse but to accept most of these objections but I think this should still go to some broad public debate. So this has to go in two readings, not just this, but many of the texts that we're looking for here to go through an emergency procedure. Finally, you said, at the end of this proposal, that this law would apply, to enter into force from 2 January 2017, today it is 18. He's supposed to be in charge of what's written. So, you don't have to rush this stuff, you don't have to rush this stuff, and you need to talk about this in public. I will say only a few interesting data according to the Institute for International and Development Studies in Geneva found that the countries of the Western Balkans and America are the largest gun owners per capita. So they said that Serbia has 58 pieces of firearms per 100 inhabitants, Macedonia has 24 pieces of firearms, Montenegro at 100-23, Croatia has 100 inhabitants somewhere around 21 pieces of firearms, Bosnia at 100 has 17, the European average is somewhere around 11 pieces of firearms per 100 inhabitants. The Americas we mentioned here are far away, there are far the most pieces of firearms per population, and that's 89 pieces of firearms. So, is it a tradition or a special desire to own firearms that's already more of a sociological issue, but the fact that this number of weapons is present is recorded, and let's imagine how many more unrecorded to say illegal then this matter needs to be given special attention. A total of 275 790 weapons were registered in the Republic of Croatia according to the latest data provided by the Ministry of Interior. Of which the gun is 84 thousand, with a holding permit and carrying it somewhere around 37,000 pieces and rifles with a smooth tube are registered 70 thousand pieces. So they're members of hunting associations. These are, therefore, the blood count of our country's possessions legally, so for legally registered weapons possession. Now I'd like to say something about the law itself. I think, in my view of this issue, maybe I'm not a special expert at it, I probably didn't, but I tried to read these suggestions carefully. So the measure of things is how to make the administrative procedure simpler and more acceptable, simpler and faster to get permits to carry, own and carry, purchase, own and carry firearms. So here I have an interesting experience of how, what our people do when they apply to get a license to get a weapon through what they have to go through. So first you have to go to a family doctor where that doctor needs to confirm that you're normal, that you don't take pills, that you don't have pressure, that no one in your family has killed anyone with that certificate is then going to a doctor's office where blood is drawn, measured sugar, pressure, hearing, vision, there are psychological tests, psychological texts of circles and something else. A psychologist then makes you walk on your toes, heels, weigh weight, height, hair color, and eventually it costs 500 kuna and 20 kuna taxes, a mark. Afterwards, it goes to the police administration, filling out a form that additionally costs 70 kuna. Afterwards a local policeman comes home to check whether they have conditions for the installation of those weapons and then are invited neighbors to give a statement, their vision of that person, of course then the neighbors are very uncomfortable communicating in this situation because my God came the police are investigating something and there is a certain problem being created. And then after that, after a while, an armed paper is issued with some kind of seal that has been issued before. So, that's one experience, maybe a little was also a little caricated, but it's going through it realistically. So if the intensity of this legislative proposal is to remove these things, to simplify the procedure this way, then we accept it, and we think it's kind of a good thing. You've had a few suggestions here. This new bill of law has been classified, categorized into four categories of weapons, which we think is good. The age limit you set for the supply of weapons is 21 years, which I also think is very good. At the end of the driving licence is no longer obtained at 18 years of age, except for exceptional categories of professional orientation or people with hunting exams where you have left the possibility of obtaining a license from 18 years of age. I think that age limit is quite correct. You've defined the general terms here, and I fully agree with my colleague Tudjman. It's not quite clear to me in which way we're now going to define the justifiable reasons for the supply of weapons. It is such a stretching category that it enters the discretionary assessment of an individual who makes such an assessment, and we have negative experiences with a discretionary assessment when it comes to it, that it can also be misused in various ways, even for political purposes. So if we want to reduce the structure of the members of the hunting society, so we want to pretend to be the premises of that hunting society, then we say that it's discretionary, that there are no legitimate reasons for obtaining a license, so the number of members is reduced, etc. But now it's a subject I'm not going to spread about. So I think this thing should be a little concrete. Will this commission, which will deal with these cases at the level of the State, be assigned to serve all cases that will appear. Will they be making an assessment based on the local police station's opinion? As it's settled, I believe that you have a good intention, and it would be good if you could explain it to us, and then we won't have that dilemma. So, I keep a reserve on how to implement the category of justifiable reasons for the supply of weapons. Extending for categories that already have a license, so no new administrative procedure will be conducted that's a good thing. We also think it's good, which makes sense when illegal weapons are discovered, weapons that aren't technically correct, which aren't registered, which are therefore not in accordance with some legal standards, it's logical to take away without compensation, and I don't think they're coming in, they don't go into any category of civil rights, so they don't do any damage, they don't damage that man, the one who knowingly owns a weapon that he knows isn't legally. When you say that a person with a valid armed list will not be subject to administrative proceedings, but it will be determined whether there is a reasonable reason for the supply of weapons I also express a certain reserve. Because I'm asking who's going to do it and on what criteria they're going to determine if there's a reasonable reason for the supply of weapons. So, the same thing we're going to do is we're going into the field of discretional evaluation that's a very stretching category, and we're seeing things that can lead to certain manipulations. The Croatian Hunting Union has had several objections, you have accepted two or three as far as I can see. It would be good, the hunting alliance was looking here, he warned that civil rights and freedoms were not threatened when police were acting. I guess it's about the way it's handled, going into control in a home where it's checked out how it's a weapon, how it's kept. Is that in the register, is that in the hunting closet? So it's not about the blind door in the room, it's about the special cash register, etc. That's not even expensive. After all, hunting is a luxury, so if you want to be a hunter, then you have to have invested in certain equipment and protection of that equipment. So, do you have any information on what it was suggested to you by the Croatian Hunting Union? Were there cases on the ground that people, officials who went to check these facts, acted in a way that led to the endangerment of these civil and human freedoms. That would be interesting to see. And in the end, I'm just gonna say one thing like this that's not connected to this, but it's a fact of thought. In my opinion, this military industry, the weapons industry, the ammunition of all kinds, is a very lucrative business. This year, in fact, America achieved 66 billion euros in the job, Russia 23, Germany 6 billion euros in revenue, Croatia's $200m in revenue came true. He knows, they're tied up by a number of jobs, etc. So we need to discuss this matter very seriously and approach this problem with a specific strategic vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26823	Thank you very much. And on your exposure, we have a whole series of replicas. She's the first one to be respected by Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26824	Dear fellow Horvat, you've talked a lot about the issue of this law. I agree with you in a lot of ways. Something I prepared for my discussion, and all of you who read this law have in detail in article 16. You have an article 16 that I have the feeling that it's a law that writes about a health institution, how many items are listed there, which this doctor would have to have in order to conduct a medical examination. Well, we're coming at this time, which is what I said yesterday at the club, in a situation where a doctor, or a health care facility, must have a metal box with a key. Are we in the 1980s or are we in the century, at a time when e-recepts are issued? And who is it going to with this law? Except for legal gun owners. I'd like the proposer here to tell me when this statistics was published that she made 80, 20% and that analysis was done. We have completely different information about that. Last year, the Croatian Hunting Union brought and filed at 6 months, and I see that it has now written to all clubs on the basis of this proposal for the law of its observations. The Croatian Shooting Federation also notes and I think that this issue needs a much wider debate, respecting what practice has shown to be good. Is there a big difference in relations between European countries. And now the question is, our hunter who is a hunter of tourists, with weapons in our area, must have a medical examination every five years, and this one doesn't have to have one at all. Are we dissuading our citizens if we don't trust our citizens? We're not talking about illegal weapons here, we're talking about legal weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26825	Thank you very much. They'll respond to the esteemed colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26826	Thanks, buddy. I absolutely agree with what you said. All you've noticed is just proof that there is one more reading to be done and one broad discussion on this subject. I have also read the comments of all those who have appeared on the Internet debate, I appreciate their opinions, but I think this is more about the opinions of individuals who have seen the problem from their perspective. I think there should be an opportunity for the system institutions to be more visible about these proposals. Of course, Article 16 in my opinion has defined many things, but if we will allow, or allow, private practice, private offices to enter the sphere of examination and issue of these types of permits, then we had to sort of define all these basic elements. As far as I'm concerned, there's a lot simpler coming to the gun list in Germany than it is coming to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26827	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26828	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you said you weren't an expert on weapons, and we know you are an expert on weapons, difficult, not easy. I'm in some part of it myself. We're associates from the old days, but we're not talking about it, we're talking about this. He says this, on one condition for the supply of weapons, no one in the family has killed anyone, closer or further. How are we going to explain this to the Croatian defender who wrote in the war route that he destroyed a number of enemy soldiers in some NN action and tanks as our minister Fred and how this defender will, after he has been found to have done so, that his child will inherit his weapon today if he applies for it. It is evident that his father, who was a Croatian defender, did something at some point. Here's the first thing about Croatian defenders. And I would call on the legislator to have special consideration for Croatian defenders in order not to disarm them in this inappropriate way. The same question was, on the same condition, that the police officer in the police department on which his area was located was the person looking for that weapon. Let me give you an example of Tomislav Josic, a Vukovar defender whose brother and family were murdered and brought to you by a police officer who captured him in '91. After the fall of Vukovar and now that same cop is coming to check his gun license. What about cases like that? Or let's say the sister of the late Mark Babic comes from a police officer who took someone of his. I'd ask all of you here what we're gonna do with cases like that? We need to get a little more accounts on that. And further, what about the illegal weapon that's in the former Danube zone that's never been handed over, there's never been an organized ransom like we did where we taught our weapons and we were therefore the same damaged weapons we taught? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26829	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26830	I agree with you that there are categories that should be treated specifically or positively from these general conditions. Perhaps in the second reading, the Proposer will take care of it. But as far as I know you're talking about an illegal area in Podunavlje, it was an open deadline when citizens were called on to surrender that weapon without any legal repercussion. Anything beyond that deadline shall be subject to criminal responsibility. It is your own risk and your own responsibility and playing with legal obligations. I think most people for their own safety and turned over and all that's not is the subject of some other conversation. And I'm not a hunting expert except that I worked 15 years in the Jelen in the largest forest or hunting firm in the Balkans. I don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26831	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26832	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, with much of your debate that you've held, I agree. I agree you don't need to freak things out, you have to record them. So that's something we should stick to. But I will only tell you one thing that is provided for in Article 15(2) says "Citizens who acquire category B firearms for hunting or sports shooting" etc. ‘they should have a conviction of the health capacity to be issued on a five-year period’. Now I ask you, I've asked you before my colleagues, who in the system is the one who says this remark is not this one, this is going to be adopted, this isn't. I pray when you answer to be careful what you say because the vast majority of us come from the system of state administration and we were once co-authors of certain laws. So all I'm going to tell you is that your legal and civilizational gain is a standard in the EU around the deadline, today only Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia have it. What's the reason you're limiting something to five years? Which one? Are you going to tell me? I belong to the group, I am a member of the Croatian Hunting Union, that every 5 years we must determine whether we are healthy or not? Well, that's settled by some other laws. It is therefore an obligation to establish somewhere on the basis of something that you are not in a state in which you should be able to inform the competent authority. Why are we putting hunters in position or members of the Croatian Shooting Union, or some long category for 5 years, for what? To charge the state budget with taxes? Did those who wrote the proposal ever pass the procedure of getting a hunting card or an armed list for holding and holding and carrying? Now I ask you what it means to hold? When you're driving a weapon to a service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26833	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26834	Thank you. A colleague for a short time, and I think that should be extended to 10 years, even in remarks I saw that they were proposals to be that deadline for 10 years but then the promoter said that it would be 5 years such a time limit for checking health skills. I think that certain categories need to be extended to 10 years and there are medical institutions that can signal over those 5 years if the health condition is so disrupted that it becomes innumerable, unaccountable, dangerous to the environment, so dangerous to own a weapon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26835	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26836	Thank you, Vice President. I also welcome the secretary of state and the secretary of state, the assistants. Dear fellow Horvatt, here I would disagree with some three things with you for saying. I thought you had nothing to do with guns, so now that you've said you've been working for 15 years, I was surprised a little bit more. In fact, you say here that you notice in the law that all objections of the interested public have been accepted mostly. I don't agree with that either, mostly because they're not accepted at all. Well, you've also received probably as a party remark from the Croatian Hunting Union, and if you know of any hunter, maybe you've come to talk about this law, so you could hear the dissatisfaction of the Croatian Hunting Union and the hunters who have this law. I'm not going to talk about the details because there's going to be a lot of debate. So I think here's where you're wrong. Secondly, in your discussion, you said that this law seems to have simplified all these procedures. I think exactly the opposite here is that a lot of things are complicated or we are a member of the EU and we should see how other EU members do it and simplify it. And we are calling for this law to be in line with European directives. And we are the strictest law, which even the minister once said in the conversation that this law belongs to the most restrictive laws in Europe. So that's not where you hit the target. And this 21 years old, you say you're okay with it in 21 years, and from 18 years of age, we're giving a driver's license, people are driving at 18 and they're far more dangerous in traffic, maybe because they're on a daily drive behind a vehicle, and they can be far more dangerous with a car, even though it's less of a cubic than a hunting test. Here again, for example. The German law and then I'll quote it and then you'll see how they simplify it when they're 14 years old already handing out guns. Or do we think that we are not worthy of the EU or that we are not equal to other EU members?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26837	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26838	And I still think a colleague of 21 years is a reasonable age limit when it can be authorized to purchase weapons, so specifically a gun that you have at home. Because here it says further that, there are exceptions when it can be granted to persons of 18 years of age. One of these exceptions is for people who pass a hunting test. So whoever's educated, who's passed, we know how to pass a hunting test, who's passed a certain practice, internship, etc. When he's 18, he can be entrusted with firearms but someone who now has only the desire to have a gun so that he can shoot and give it to him at 18 years of age, I think it's a more reasonable solution to be at the age of 21. I think that's better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26839	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26840	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Horvat, in your debate, you touched reasonable reasons. I believe that the Ministry of the Interior, not what I think it is, but according to both the law and the Constitution, must take care of the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia both those who have weapons and those who do not have weapons, as well as those who intend to obtain weapons. And of course if we as advocates seem that these measures are restrictive to me it seems that when they come from the Ministry of the Interior and I say the Ministry is responsible in that area seems somehow logical, they want to be fenced, they want me to say it like this I wouldn't want to be a member of the commission that decides whether someone gets a weapon or not. I wouldn't want to. He who is in that commission should have clear rules. You've tried to define justifiable reasons here, and it's said that it's a report of assault or threats, and from those subjective ones it's turned to objective, which is good. So it's been proven that police have records of the attack. But of course some warn now that again the commission or that man, if someone threatens me and I get a weapon, the second day Peric kills that man who will be the suspect in charge? He can even find out what kind of weapon I've got. So that's a sequence, that's a series of problems that can appear in practice. How to define objective reasons is hard to say right now. Of course I agree with you that objective reasons must be some kind of record, some kind of documentation. In my opinion, if a man wins the lottery the other day, he's certainly got good reason to get a gun. That's probably a valid reason. What I wanted, although I'm replicating my colleagues to Horvato, forgive the Vice President, but perhaps according to the Ministry's representatives, perhaps well, we'd have contact with the police officers, we have a Committee of Prevention in the municipalities, perhaps local self-government units should be involved. I don't know if that's possible. We have time now. Perhaps they too could get useful information about general security and then also about hunting associations, about people who want to get guns. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26841	Thank you. Here's a colleague, Horvath, who's still going to answer something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26842	Oh, yeah, because there's still some unspeakable reasons. So here it is said that if the applicant should consume the fact of a justifiable reason to get permission to carry a weapon, then he should specify concrete reports of attacks, threats, report it to the police, and the police should record it. I'm just curious, so let's work out a little bit of that criterion. How many of these reported threats are sufficient to meet the criteria of justifiable reasons? One threat or ten? How much? Either it is a discretionary assessment of the competent authority, which will then, that commission, which will then assess the severity of these threats and decide whether anyone has the right to carry a weapon, receive a permit to carry a weapon from some personal protection or not. I merely insisted that this criterion be justified because of the slightly stronger fortification, i.e. the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26843	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26844	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you said in your debate that there were objections to possible civil liberties injuries if it was going to check how and where the weapon was held and then you asked if that might be the reason why police officers misbehaved. But that's not at all what this is about. It's about home protection, the right to enter a home, it's one of the fundamental freedoms, and therefore it can't be given, let the police come in for any reason, that is, for this reason. It's another thing to have a statement where it's held and how it's held up. But then whoever makes that statement, who signs it, is responsible and suffers all the consequences if that's not the case. And that turn in the opinion and manner of behavior, that we have to be responsible for the statements that we give and that they have their consequences, and not for harassing the police to have to go into houses and watch, I think it's a change of mentality and attitude towards both people and to work and to the obligations we have. And in that sense, this provision in Slovenia, for example, fell on the Constitution, the Constitution brought down that provision that the police... on that basis in the house. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we simply go with an old-fashioned logic without taking care of democratic processes, about what needs to be, and we impose one solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26845	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Miroslav Tudjman. I just have to remind all my colleagues that we have a very large number of registered speakers and a lot of replicas. I think we're gonna be staying up pretty late. That's all. Here's a colleague of Tudjman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26846	Thank you very much. I will first read the proposal of the HDZ Club's conclusion that, in due time, I read only briefly, that this bill should be obtained for the registration of weapons, in fact, to conduct a second reading, and that any remarks and proposals and discussions that will be made during, that the applicant should take them into account when making the final draft of the law. In view of the times, however, allow only a telegraphic thing about whether the two Laws on Discussion and this first law that was not discussed, the Proposal for a Law on Explosive Substances and Production, the Transport of Weapons with the Final Proposal of the Law. Some remarks were made in the debate, some were not. But let me, as a lawyer, simply say something that seems irrational to me to say. The law has somewhere on 90 and some pages is written, but the structure of that law goes so that there is an article for the production and transport of explosive substances, arms trafficking, use of explosive things, civilian shooting sites, arms stores and ammunition stores, pyrotechnic goods stores, etc. Not to count them all, I'm 50. And each one actually repeats the same structure with a request for approval of this activity, so it lists what needs to be, the person responsible, and it lists what everything should be. So 20 times one repeats the same thing, instead of putting it in that term at the beginning that, which requires publishing, is a responsible person, etc. Then we'd get one easier, more transparent law. On the other hand, you have something that is simply unimaginable to me. Infringements, here I don't know if anyone has counted how much this law generates infringing provisions – 188 that are being punished for d 1000 to 80000. Well, I don't know, I think we're making those kind of misdemeanor decisions ourselves. But I don't get to talk about any more of these possible amendments that are supposed to come here. As far as this other law is concerned, it's simply not good, it's not good at its basics. First I think that, I'm going to talk about what not giving grades, but what should be in my opinion, that sense of the law should be such as to register a weapon once. Because guns don't change, numbers don't change, etc. Although it happens that they are looking for some additional markings afterwards, it can then be arranged so that every five years they carry a weapon back to the police station and that everything is checked, but that the police have the right to request that additional information if necessary. On the other hand, what has already been said, the issue of medical testimony or checking every five years as proposed by this law, the European countries do not have it. We have heard only Slovenia and I think that this amendment and this proposal should be adopted so that this complete proposal is provided for by the law to go at the beginning when this authorisation is requested, and that possible corrections in behaviour or change of health conditions can be made through competent health institutions or family doctors, to be delivered through the Ministry or to finally come to a network of these databases that we have so that the competent institutions, or the MUP, can be informed and, in that case, seek corrections, checks or additional healthcare... Furthermore, this remark was made just before, which is entering the apartment. I think we should go after this, the police need to know how to store weapons under what conditions, but it should therefore be the statement of the gun owner, or the one who has it, and it should be the basic procedure and the criteria. And the clear thing about what I said earlier, that if I gave the wrong information then I'm losing the right to that permission to hold or use the weapons I have. Furthermore, we have this provision where one old method is again sought, that among other things the officers will come to question the neighborhood in which these relations are, or even one formula that is unacceptable, disturbed family relations. Disturbing family relationships can be anything and everything. Therefore, it is necessary to enter here and it is consistent to implement this provision of domestic violence, if that is so, then it is one reason to deny that authorisation. And with these checks being done, there are now a far greater number of sources, methods and techniques as to how data can be obtained that are relevant to whether or not to give a license to someone, hence to official sources, to other databases, and to leave a clear point of conversation with persons, but not simply to caricate these things with police conversations, with neighbors or not to know what. Furthermore, this provision, which has been said to be authorised by the person who has reported that she has been compromised and who has confirmed that it has been recorded in the police administration, is simply an excess that needs to be removed and there is no room for that, nor any common sense, nor in a political sense, because the connotations are such that there is no place here. On the other hand, the question means that this authorisation is issued once, health skills are confirmed at the outset. There is now one intensities to then be introduced after 65 years of occasional five-year-old or I don't know what additional checks, although not even other European countries are looking for or having them. For 67 years, I think we should introduce it, because obviously we're going towards that age limit that it's likely to become the age limit of the working age. As already said, there is a regulation by the Minister or the Proposer proposing what health care institutions need to do in order to carry out these medical examinations, and I don't think we should change every little bit of this law and legal provisions to say that it is signed by the Minister of Health and that this is how it is dealt with. Furthermore, it is again sought with the belief of the competent authority which confirms that someone has passed the hunting test, again asking permission on authorisation instead of saying that the hunting card with a valid identification mark for a particular hunting year is sufficient for such a single solution. There are a few more of these key, controversial problems, you simply have the use of weapons with air weapons and weapons of category C and D.C. code dedicated us to the law or proposed here for 11 years, and in these European countries there are 9 years. In other words, children cannot start training adequately when other children in Europe, so they are not talking about self-using but under control, under club coaching. So I don't see any reason why we wouldn't have the same level. In the law it is also used to limit the formulations when it comes to the circumstances which indicate it. This is one very vague formulation so that there should be one more precise formulation because it still leaves the issue of discretionary rights for individuals and this can then result in this practice being different from one case to another. And there's something else that's never been said before, and by the way, we're taking a little bit of care of it, so we say listen to this bill or that law, so this one doesn't need any new funding from the budget either. However, has the time come for us to start taking care of the reasons behind the big system management? I haven't followed enough how much Mr. Horvat was talking about the number of these registered weapons but I think it's moving somewhere around 150 grand all together when it's... Even nicer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the owner is how much? 117 grand. [[/Intruder: 117 grand.]] Look, when you go to calculate how much time, how many hours of work are spent not repeating all that procedure that was already prescribed for this speaker, the time of the medical examination, the time of the police coming to you in an hour, the time of the officers who examined that weapon by modest budgets, what I could do for that amount of weaponry, or the owner of the weapon, I calculated that it goes somewhere around 600 people a year. For five years, it's 120 people doing that to you. Someone who takes care of the system should be happy to reduce that amount of hours and hours of work so as not to spend on these kinds of jobs. And I think that even from that point of view, if we want to think about it in a modern way, we need to approach this and see how much the ministry is going to free its people from these jobs that we can always justify them with the reasons for prevention, protection, that some things don't happen and that has its own logic, its own justification, but also those people can engage in a lot of other tasks and obligations to threaten and in other areas then reduce. So I think this law should go to another reading and this law go to another reading. I agree with the growing provisions of the laws of P.Z.E. They don't have to be in the first reading, that it depends on the same terms and opportunities. And I say the HDZ Club will ask for a second reading so that these, i.e. I am looking right now so that these amendments and additions of laws can be introduced and respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26847	Thank you. And we have a few replicas for your exposure. He is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26848	Dear fellow Tudjman, when you spoke about numbers and weapons owners, the lady mentioned the number of 117 thousand men she needs, I'm the only one who's googled, and you can have a laptop doctor's examination for the weapons of hunters. And then you have a whole series of offers, and you even have action offers to review 270 kuna, but you have a limited number of coupons, so you have 540 kuna + 20 kuna marks, etc. etc. What are we getting at? So whoever legally owns a request weapon has to carry out a medical examination. Why limit it to a time limit of 5 or 10 years if that review is carried out? The team more if there is an obligation to deliver the gun to the MAP or the nearest police authority the name and information of its selected physician. The police department has an obligation to inform that doctor whether his patient is a user of the weapon. So we're talking about some things that definitely have nothing to do with sound logic. I heard yesterday that some of the state institutions were looking for that famous birth certificate not over six months old, so it really surprised me. I've come to find that here's the City Hall in Rijeka looking for a birth certificate no more than six months old. What time do we live? And then he puts it in brackets to accept that document. That's exactly how this law was set up. The European directive you've been reading since 91st when it's been passed, and the whole part of it here doesn't apply to restrictions on legal weapons at all. It exclusively refers to illegal weapons, and even there appears to be some kind of concern about the possibility of producing illegal weapons with those 3D printers. And here we are talking about an institution about the Croatian Hunting Union, which is over 125 years old with its postulates, about the Croatian Hunting Union, about Giovanni Cernogaroz, whom we all celebrated the Olympic medal, from children who were at 13, 14 years old at the shooting club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26849	Thank you. The honourable representative Miroslav Tudjman will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Klaric here is actually about a few things where we are again below the level of what we can have. The first databases that were formed, which this healthcare means you can go to any pharmacy and lift the medicine. Therefore, it is necessary to network these databases of police and doctors so that doctors do not have to do it automatically, have a special task to think about notifying, but to inform, or networked, and to exchange these data. On the other hand, let's go back to that savings logic. We don't have enough doctors in Croatia today. So set them free from this business, that they may be able to engage in other obligations that are far more primary and more important. And maybe one more thing I apologize for, but I can add here. That passion for destroying old weapons just doesn't make sense. Because it's already said he has both cultural and historical value and that we're going to physically destroy it just doesn't make sense. If that should already be, then it should be such a method that at some point they can be reconstructed, that is, because in 50 or 100 years they'll simply say so what kind of savages lived here that they don't know how to relate to their own cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26851	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26852	Dear fellow Tudjman, I actually want to begin by commending your debate, you debated very constructively, metrically, you stuck to the act of the law. You went from article to article and made your remarks. In fact, I'd like to invite all the MPs to discuss it that way. And one good part of your remarks I personally hold, and so do we at the MOST Club that they are very constructive and that they may be found in the final draft of the law. We find some of them a little over-radical. And unlike you, some MPs actually use the debate about this law to intimidate those legal gun owners for whom this law practically changes nothing compared to that previous law that was so far, or which is still in force. So what I'm saying is that here we invite all of you to make all of your remarks. All those who are constructive will be respected. All those who are radical will absolutely not be respected. We want one rational law, nothing that goes into any extreme will be accepted from our side.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26853	Thank you very much. The next club representative is that SDP on behalf of which he will speak esteemed...... And I'm sorry, there's the motionary, the distinguished secretary of state, who wants to answer some questions. [[I don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26854	Thank you. Since I see that the debate has developed very sharply, I would just like to make it simple, that is, to clarify some things. The things you've made the law as new don't stand, or things don't stand. Therefore, a legitimate reason had to exist under the current law and this is not contrary to the allegations of individual representatives, the invention of the applicant, but the existence of a legitimate reason requires a directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons. It is also an incorrect assumption that this law seeks to disarm the Croatian people. Citizens who meet certain conditions, and so far they have been able to obtain weapons. The only thing they're expected to do is expect them to have legitimate reasons. Therefore, there is really no way to talk about disarmament. About limiting the validity of a medical examination. The medical examination or belief of health skills has been valid for 5 years. I can't stress enough that the health condition for a person who owns a dangerous thing, and the weapon is a dangerous thing is really crucial. Health conditions can be radically changed in six months, and here we are talking about a time period of 5 years. That there is a doctor's obligation to report changes in your health. And yes, there are records. However, that measure, i.e. that possibility of electronic notification, is now in force for the third year. So far, we have had four reports, four reports of changes in health conditions, which suggests that this measure is not relevant, and that we need an additional protection mechanism. Weapons are a dangerous thing, a dangerous thing that's in limited traffic. That's not just what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the safety of a person who owns a weapon. I'm talking about people in its immediate surroundings. As regards the emergency procedure, I would also like to clarify that this law is going, i.e. it is proposed to go into emergency proceedings because one part of the business of legal entities has been singled out from the existing law. He was singled out to join this other law, the Law on Explosive Substances, and this law is important for us to go through an emergency procedure because it implements a directive whose transposition deadline was last year. For that reason, it's a package of laws. The law was in a public debate. From all the above, there is a likelihood that they will go to another reading so that we will have the opportunity to discuss more things that seem potentially problematic. When compared to other systems that have no obligation, they do not have the obligation to repeat a medical examination. I would like to say, if we are already comparing ourselves to, say, one German who has, he prescribes the obligation of a person who has a weapon to have a one-million-euro insurance policy. Why not introduce such a thing as a control mechanism if we want to compare ourselves with others? Regarding the age of children, it is also partly true. You stated that the practice of European countries is that this age is lower. Here's my information for Slovenia. In Slovenia, children who are dealing with biathlon can engage in biathlon shooting at 14 years of age. They can only handle the shooting at 11 years old. Germany for 16 years, Austria also for 16 years, so Germany, Slovenia, Austria and that circle of countries where we belong continentally, and we always belonged, so it's not exactly true that it's 9 years everywhere. It's about field checks. The law on police and police officers have the power to collect data from citizens, for better insight into the conditions leading to the issue of the gun list, means that it leads to circumstances for a person to allow him to own a weapon. Guns are a dangerous thing. There are records, that's true, but unfortunately not all states are recorded. We have people who are alcoholics, who are users of intoxicating drugs, who are abusers in the family, and people don't have to be seduced in records. So that's why it's important to do a field check to establish the right situation on the ground. We therefore consider this measure to be justified. Here I would end up here for now, so eventually later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26855	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused a series of replicas again. He is the first to be respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26856	Thank you. Just for a little while. There must be a valid reason, but what you wrote was that it should be a threat recorded in the police that it's a legitimate reason, it's nonsense, and therefore it needs to be changed. On the other hand, a medical examination so far, a medical examination so far, it has been the last amendment of the law, otherwise it has been 10 years, and on the other hand we have seen that a series of countries are not there, therefore there is no reason to do so because today, not only today, today your driver's license is also especially for D or I don't know what it's called for for driving a truck far more problematic but for driving a plane is doing a far bigger terrorist or I don't know what kind of attacks, so I don't think it just can't stand that reason, but we need to act on the basis of an analysis that you don't have. When we were at the debate of those 274 muggings that you said happened, you had no idea whether it was with legal or not legal weapons, etc., therefore the laws are passed from some world-wide or idealized images of the world in a positive or negative sense, rather than on the basis of empathy and fiction. On the other hand, field check, you know what, I've been living in one building for 50 years, I have no idea who the tenants are around me, and I doubt they know much more about me, and something about intelligence I think I know because I think I know how to collect data. So this field check of what it's like to define simply is the archaeology of God's people. So take a look at what's going on in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26857	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26858	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Secretary of State said, the topic is a personal protection weapon, I didn't mean to talk about it at all today, and I wouldn't want to think that the great public focus is on that part of the change in this law, and I don't think it's the most important one, but you said one sentence that a provision is being introduced that now there needs to be a legitimate reason to make that weapon..., you said that a little earlier when it did. ... That's what I was about to say, that's why it should have existed by now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's just that I find it much more problematic that Mr. Tudjman is saying that there's a need to redefine the evidence, and I agree with that part because it's quite a bit of a closed story. But what bothers me, which I think is the problem, the person who's felt some kind of threat up until now would come to the competent police station then report that he feels threatened and wants to get a weapon, then the police station and his parent authority would be conducting tests on whether it's justified, not justified and drawing conclusions. If she found out it wasn't justified, she'd say no to that person and that's where the story stops. If it has concluded that this is justified, it would be possible to forward this proposal to the competent police authority, which would also discuss whether or not it is necessary and then, if it were to be concluded that the person should then receive it. According to this bill, it will now be done by a commission in Zagreb on the Sava road appointed by the minister, which says that this assessment will be done by a commission appointed by the minister. Now I think that there is a much better variant existing because the competent police station certainly knows better about the citizens in its area whether they are threatened, not threatened and what they are and whether they need to be authorized by weapons or not by the competent police administration than by some commission in Zagreb. Here's if I get the wrong idea, correct me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26859	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26860	Well, you didn't convince us at all in the part where you told us about why the medical examinations, which is why what we're saying is not acceptable. In the last month, an official weapon has killed three police officers. Who authorized them? Did they go to the neighbors to question what kind of people they were? It's an individual thing. What we're talking about, we're talking about the institutions of some kind of Croatian hunting alliance, the Croatian Shooting Union, I'm not getting into what my colleague Djujic was talking about, some kind of weapon where there's justifiable suspicion of his self-defense. I'm talking about people who passed some kind of test, which, in order to be members of a particular society, must meet certain criteria. In each joint hunt or use of firearms, a hunter or person in charge of hunting lists participants, lists and numbers of their hunting cards, enters the number of their armed list, where you will be more controlled. It's, it's an institution that lasts, it has its own rules and laws beyond all these laws that we've been talking about here for 125 years with publications, with scientific works dealing with breeding, protecting and hunting savages and where weapons are a kind of means of that hunt. And we're talking about a second category of people, about my Kvarner Shooting Club in Bakr where young people at 10, 12, 13, 14 go for a bit to perfect themselves in arms handling and in sports competitions with these weapons. And we can't impose any restrictions on them. We agree medically that a review should be carried out, so that the law can be incorporated even if there is any doubt by the MUP and the police that it can be referred to some extraordinary medical examination. But what does a five-year deadline mean? He's looking at someone within five years, he's gonna charge him this money, so with the number when it's done, we'll see what the amount is, and we'll force that person to do something with all the controls he's got at home that a cop's coming to watch where he's holding that weapon and to ask him about the neighborhood as he is. I think there's a little bit of it, but we're stuck in some other time before the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26861	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26862	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state several times you mentioned a weapon is a dangerous thing. It's the same thing, I'm an electrical engineer, you know, then I hear my neighbors' electricity is a very dangerous thing, and those people panic general, guns are a dangerous thing just for ignorants, for ordinary laymen who have never seen it, and then they're threatening guns, so I'm sure someone's going to kill me with guns. Like the one I touch the switch, I might get electrocuted, and so you say, it's not good for you to talk like that, but you're still the secretary of state of our ministry, so it's not good to say guns is a dangerous thing, a dangerous thing. Car's a dangerous thing, plane's a dangerous thing, electricity's a dangerous thing, it's all dangerous stuff. But for this law, however, it's written for people who have weapons, who have permits, we train them to be strict over them. That's why it should be a little more tolerated, and not go with the premise here the weapon is a dangerous thing and now let's give everyone who accidentally thinks about having a weapon, we need to find ways to crush them, crush them, and warn them because they're definitely going to do something with that weapon. It's very dangerous to go into law writing with such a hunch. You say that this primary protection does not work and this Article 17 in which a doctor of primary health care must report if there is a problem, as it does not work. So let's make it work, let's see what's up with the information, that that primary protection doctor when he writes something or some diagnosis or some medicine means it automatically signals that it's out there somewhere in the police, because it tends to a unique information system. We must compare ourselves with others for what is good. We have entered the EU in order to be equal with some of the others we like, some where we want to be like us. And this 9 years then, it's well said here in the position of the Shooting Alliance "Because gun handling is under strict control of the coach." So coach doesn't take that 9-year-old weapon so he goes down the street and walks, he plays with it, but he comes to practice, he comes to get ready for some kind of competition. So we don't have to threaten those nine years, and I think that would be realistic if we put those nine years together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26863	Thank you. The next replica is an esteemed colleague of Nikola Grumoya. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26864	Dear Vice President, here's the secretary of state I think that here in this debate it's important to point out from the beginning that it's gone in the wrong direction, it's said that this law is restrictive and then we're having a discussion about this every five years of medical examination? A medical examination every five years was also in law before this, it's not something new that is now proposed by this law. So then we can talk here whether we want to liberalize the law, so are we going to liberalize the law, help people get to weapons more easily or not? But don't argue in the wrong direction. So you started with the law being restrictive, and now you're questioning the provisions that were in the existing law. We need to decide whether we want to liberalise things, so do we want to liberalise or keep this legislation as it is? I think that the number of crimes committed by legal weapons says that legislation, that is, that this law is now as it is, that things should not be set up more restrictively, nor should things be further liberalised. As for these medical examinations, it means that to leave this to the doctors of general medicine, we have heard that only 4 reports of family medicine doctors have reported that the health condition has changed. Professor Tudjman says it could be computerized like this, and the question is how are hunters going to ask or people who have guns how they're going to go to those doctors who report it, whether they're going to check in or they're going to ask for a doctor who might not want to report it, who's going to close one eye? So these are strong, so guns are a dangerous thing if they're in the hands of people who aren't psycho-physically capable of operating weapons and possessing weapons. And we can't play with it. And the question if we change that, if we stop what exists in the existing law that people have to go to a doctor every five years to see what it will lead to?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26865	Thank you. We've got a colleague, Sagar, who's been doing some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26866	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament was injured in Article 230. Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Djakic, came forward for a discussion outside the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, but I think we should allow him to speak because he probably has something to say about this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26867	Honestly, I don't know if he called out of time, but okay. I appeal otherwise, you raised that question well, I appeal to everyone to try to be focused and part of what my colleague Grumoja said is going to do exactly that. Let's concentrate on the text of the law, on the newspaper in that law and whether they're good, whether they're bad, etc. etc. Because according to my assessment, rough before I thought we'd be done by eight o'clock. At this rate, we're not going to finish up to 10 with the number of replicas and the number of reported ones, just to keep everyone on that account. But we do have another replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26868	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, so respected secretary of state. So, in Article 14, you have now mentioned these medical examinations. It is not clear to me, however, that the way in which the health examination is carried out will be determined with the agreement of the Croatian Defence Minister. So I don't understand what the Croatian Defence Minister has to do with medical examinations. If the health minister prescribes a rule and he is a professional person, so Article 14 special conditions are 4, so the minister responsible for health care here says, that the Croatian Defence Minister must give consent. For what? In what way is he an expert to determine someone's psychophysical, medical ability? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26869	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26870	... What? [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] No, indeed it is because. No, there is a provision that is in line, that is, taking into account the wishes of Croatian defenders who suffer from some form of PTSD, to take into account the opinion of the doctor who has followed them so far when issuing his opinion on their health. So, not only should they be left to a committee, or doctor who has not seen them before, but also to consider the opinion of their primary health care doctor — psychiatrists, if guided by a psychiatrist. So, it doesn't have to, it's not a key opinion, it's just to consider it. There, that was intensity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26871	Okay. I have to admit, I understand this discussion less and less, but it's probably a matter of my limitations. We will now give our word on behalf of the SDP club to respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We've been on vacation for a long time, so I guess we're all eager to have more discussion together. Mostly respected colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the ministry, I want to say at first that no weapon is good and that the world would be much nicer without weapons, that we don't have one at all. But since we already have it and when it is there, what we in the SDP want to warn about, what we think is one basic and key thing about holding and carrying arms and legal regulations that regulate it, which is that the main problem in Croatia, not only in Croatia, but also in Europe, is illegal weapons, and this law does not solve it. Not at all, but it does not solve to a significant extent, but this law applies exclusively to those who legally own weapons in Croatia, and we have no problems with them, as a general rule, in most cases. These are people who are legalists, who are law-abiding and who are subject to much more rigorous treatment by state authorities than citizens who do not possess weapons or those who possess it illegally. This bill, compared to the existing law, will in no way make a greater move and improve the fight against those who illegally possess weapons, acquire or use weapons. It's not the legal problems, it's the ones who own it illegally, and that's what we in the SDP would like to hear from this debate as the main message. ... No, no, okay. Comrade Djakic, you will have a chance. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It's all right. But also what counterpart Grmoja said, the current law was passed in 2006 and when it was passed in Croatia, about 37,000 pieces of weapons were owned by the citizens, it was so registered. And according to data from the ministry today, we have about 270 thousand pieces of that weapon that owns about 117 thousand owners, and that is exactly what the law passed in 2006 has become significantly rigorous and that law has significantly sharpened the procurement and possession of weapons in relation to what it was until then. And that also resulted that today, compared to that law that was passed, we have about 11 years ago about 100,000 pieces of weapons less. And by this law, this bill makes most of the provisions essentially and doesn't change what we currently have in place. And some things aren't even good to change honestly, because guns must be under control, weapons must be under every control of the state. So you can't exactly liberalize it, at least that's what we think in the SDP. But that some other things that are beyond every logic and make it difficult for the administrative-burocratic procedure to obtain weapons to those who possess it lightly need to be made easier and should be discussed. On the other hand, the same important fact is that in Croatia, according to the estimates of some experts, we have about 500 thousand illegal weapons, and that is the problem and these data just confirms what I said at the beginning, and that is that the main problem in Croatia is that illegal weapons versus illegal weapons. We also need to draw attention to the fact that most of the crimes in Croatia have been committed by illegal weapons, even in a higher percentage than you have told us in this 80 percent estimate than 90% of the cases are illegal weapons, and only about a dozen are the legal ones. It is also good that citizens today can return illegal weapons without sanctions to the competent police station. But unfortunately, that's not enough in itself. What's also worrying us is that this law, it's good that it's being passed, it's good that it's headed towards the new Arms Act, it's good that it's separated into two laws. However, this was also an opportunity to resolve certain things that are not good in the existing law. Unfortunately, however, they do not get rid of each other. And that is why there are a series of objections to this law that have been delivered by associations such as the Hunting Union, the Croatian Shooting Union, are what we have already mentioned together before me and that will probably be behind me all together and speaking. Even the objections to this law have a large number of experts and those directly concerned by this law and precisely those whose members or users own 85% of their weapons in the Republic of Croatia are the most dissatisfied with this bill and have sent a series of objections and illogicalities to this law. But again, I'm stressing it's a large part of the things that are still in force today. So we need to talk about how the shortcomings in the future will improve and improve. Some of these illogicalities have been here for 11 years, and this new law has been the opportunity for these shortcomings to be resolved. I am now not going to list all the examples and illogicalities that have been pointed out by many associations, primarily the Hunting and Shooting Alliance, because I don't think it makes any sense because we all got them together, so every representative in this Chamber has received objections from hunting alliances, shooting alliances, all clubs, etc. We're all familiar with them, so it doesn't make sense that here right now I'm saying by some of their remarks what should be done. Some of these remarks are justified, some of them are not justified, so this should be discussed. But what I want to point out is that this law was also referred to as an emergency procedure in this previous 8th Assembly meeting, which was referred to in the procedure, then it was decided on a proposal from the parent board that he was not going after all, that the emergency mark was removed. Even in the last session, the first reading was held, but we all know that then the 8th symposium disintegrated early and the second reading never occurred. And given the number of objections that exist about this bill, primarily the hunting and shooting alliance, and also a number of others, and I can see that so far in the debate I've heard that most other clubs support it, the SDP Representatives Club has also submitted an amendment that contains all those remarks made by the Hunting Union, we have referred it to the procedure in writing. I don't think it would have been if we'd stolen something, but that's all we gave. And since this amendment has significantly changed us in the SDP club, we have now officially asked for a third reading of that law, since this is the first and second reading, or it is the technical form that we consider in the SDP that the only way to satisfy that this law is going to be another reading, which is why it is called the third reading, but in the main case, we are asking that the law goes into another reading, and since, after the debate so far, I don't think it will really be a problem and that this will be supported by all the representatives' clubs, and then until that second next reading, we should be able to contact additionally, and I especially appeal to the promoter, and to further include the hunting alliance, the shooting alliance and all the interested public, but also all the proposals of the representatives, and then to significantly correct this law and to remove the objections addressed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26873	Thank you very much. And we have replicas on your exhibit. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26874	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Djujic, here I am a little surprised I didn't hear this information where you say there are 500 thousand weapons illegally in the Republic of Croatia. If we add these 270 thousand more to legal terms, it's a massive number of weapons. I wonder where you got that information from. Is that really the right information? It's a really big number. What I want to emphasize here is that you said again on several occasions, a rigorous law. We have cases today that a certain test has to be passed to handle the chain saw. So I'm curious at this point what are you thinking when it comes to rigorous law? Of course we rule out hunting and shooting alliances. We're talking about getting weapons for personal purposes. Is it a medical examination, whether it's some commission work that will then determine in individual cases that a person can get a gun license and not. What is a rigorous measure in that part? And when we talk about the relationship between illegal and legal weapons, he doesn't think there's a parallel to that. in legalising easy drugs. If we say that legalizing easy drugs will reduce the amount of illegal drugs, I don't think that's the case with weapons because whoever intends to commit crimes, they'll never legalize their weapons or get it legally. So I don't think the provisions of this law will affect this relationship between legal and illegal weapons, especially because, as you say, there are so many. And there was a series of MUPs who ran a series of arms-gathering actions, and I don't think the ministry could have succeeded in that intention if they still had that number.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26875	Thank you. The esteemed representative Djujic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26876	I got this information from my colleague, Sagar, who, in conversations with employees, even the MUP that deals with it. Is he right, isn't he? I don't know, I'll take that. The other thing is, I don't know what you're surprised we have so many illegal weapons. So we're the country that came out of the war. We in Croatia have more World War II weapons, let alone the Homeland War that was 20 years ago. When I say rigorous law, then I think it is one of the most rigorous in Europe in the EU. And you said when you asked me what that means, a rigorous sign, that you mean a weapon for personal purposes, not a weapon for hunters, shooters, athletes, in fact, dealing with shooting, etc. There are no weapons for personal purposes, and it is the hunters, athletes who own 85% of the legal weapons in Croatia in the shooting alliances. So you still have 15% of the weapons that are registered, then there's the police, the military, etc. So basically most of the ones you thought that that didn't apply. And when I speak rigorously, I think to people who have hunters, athletes, etc. This law, with its provisions, further complicates the procurement of the holding and management of those weapons. They're complicated and they're making it hard, okay, but we need to talk about whether we need some things that are really out of our minds to get out of here or not. Medical examination, myself, here's my personal attitude is I don't know, I don't know if it takes 5 years or 10 years. But the fact is that you pass a driver's test, then you pass a medical examination, you get a driver's license, and by the age of 65 no one asks you for health, and maybe after 20 years of putting you at greater risk than someone who has a gun, you might be jeopardizing more citizens. So these are the things to discuss now. But here's me personally I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26877	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26878	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, so here's a distinguished colleague when I have to say that I agree first and foremost with the great part of what you said, but given the information available to me by introducing this 5-year obligation, how much information I have the statistics has not changed in many respects, let's call it a violation. So, as far as I understand it, we're talking about the law, about getting a registration of a citizen's weapon, and I think this was about the ones who were legal. I agree with you that we have a problem with illegal stories that we'll probably have to regulate absolutely the same day. So I'd say, you say today some provisions of the law are more rigorous. I agree with you, but that's why we're here to discuss it and bring changes, or amendments or additions to an act. So, specifically, the law. So we here are the ones who got the trust and had the right to discuss and make decisions about it. So the act is something, or the law is something that we regulate, we standardize. I'm just fighting to keep something from getting too freaked out, not to put too much pressure on it. And about these things, as I understand it, here are the representatives of the ministry for the answers they've given so far, and I hope that in the future everything that's logical you'll accept in one reasoned debate that it'll be the best that we can have in terms of the law. Is every law better than any law we don't have. So we're regulating something. And I agree that the weapon is an absolutely great danger. And as for the comparison of this when a man drives a car, I would say that a man is an abandoned grain that he drives every day, so it's a matter of health in which he should be able to reach the goal or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26879	The Honorable MP Djujic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26880	Thank you, colleague Mikulić. Well, you're basically agreeing with me and I'm glad you're getting along with me, and what you said was a little questionable is, in fact, you've repeated what I said. So we're actually getting along, and I'm glad about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26881	That's great. Next on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, distinguished MP Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26882	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, and I welcome you all on behalf of the HSS Club, and I would like to say immediately that the HSS club will also ask that the emergency mark be removed from this bill, or both, and that it goes into regular procedure because we discussed it in May last year when these laws were in the procedure of the previous meeting. And here is the fact that it is also 125 parliamentary representatives then, almost all clubs were for these two laws to go into regular procedure I see no reason not to do so and now especially because we have received like all clubs correspondence from the Croatian Hunting Union, the Croatian Shooting Union and other interested parties that a series of their remarks are not respected in these two draft laws. I would like to remind you that both laws have gone with the intensity of the implementation of the European directive towards increasing the security of citizens and security in Croatia, but towards reducing the administration. These remarks show that much can be done better and better. We at HSS and myself personally advocate not to go towards talking against hunters and those who are involved in shooting and sports and those who have guns because there is a saying in Croatia "That empty rifles are colored by two and the one who holds the rifle and the one who is standing in front of the gun." And I think that gun owners, hunters and people who deal with sports shooting are not a threat to security in the Republic and that they should not be afraid of them and that the law should not go towards stricter measures because of them. That is why here is also the name of 70 thousand Croatian hunters and a huge number of people who are engaged in sports shooting insist that this law goes into regular procedure, to engage in discussions of all their observations and to try to find a model so that the law is acceptable to everyone first of all to implement the European directive, on the other hand to increase the safety of our fellow citizens and third to reduce administration and to dissipate both Croatian hunters and the Croatian Shooting Union, or sports archers. We know how much money we have and how hard it is to be a hunter and a sports shooter in Croatia today because it is all an expensive sport. You also mentioned some examples from the European state, of course there are examples and where, at 9, 11 or 14 years old, you can deal with shooting, in Germany and in hunting at 14, here is the 18-year limit, and we also see some of the restrictions that we have put in place that they have not given any significant statistical changes, that most of the crime has been done with illegal weapons and that this which is legally not used in more than 90% of the cases. And so here we think that we need to meet precisely Croatian hunters because if the 5-year limit to the duration of the medical examination did not give any movement in that statistics. Then we need to see financially what it is and how much it costs for Croatian hunters. Because with the already mentioned fact that it is from 500 to 700 kuna, plus a state fee of 70 kuna plus travel expenses, it moves about 1000 kuna per Croatian hunter. Why don't you meet them to cut it down? Why not go for 10 years like it was before 2006 and about that we agreed to clubs and ten months ago here in the debate that it should be returned for 10 years. The Croatian Peasant Party, if this provision remains in the law, will also go with the amendment to return it to Article 16(2) that a health check is valid for 10 years, especially as the family doctor has an obligation to report a health change to the hunter. And we can't punish hunters for the fact that two state institutions, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and a family doctor can't find a model to report a change in the state of a health psychophysical hunter. I think there's got to be a model to make it work, that's what happens if we already have the medicine codes, the disease codes. If the doctor types in the disease code that automatically red in the Ministry of Interior titres and then the Ministry of Interior can react, not that the hunter is forced into a new medical examination that is truly expensive. We will also advocate a more concrete application for personal security weapons, that this is precisely what protects the constitutional right to freedom of every citizen to enter a home, etc. which has already been mentioned here, to sort it out with some other model. For example, you have a situation where you're not good with a neighbor, and when he sees the police coming to you, there's talk and hope, and in the end you can't get guns for something other than those animosities. Or at the end of the assessment of an official from the Ministry of the Interior is it always relevant, because it may happen that because of some belongings to political parties and some other activities does not give you consent to the purchase of weapons. I think that, because the intensity is also in the EU because of terrorism, that there is an increase in the number of requests for the supply of weapons and that is not the problem there. People are getting weapons and I think we should go now to reduce illegals, and we have heard that in Croatia there are over 500 thousand in some estimates and that there are as many legal ones as possible. It should also be pointed out that it is necessary to continue with this action that citizens can return illegal weapons from the Homeland War and other forms of ownership without criminal charges and criminal charges, as these actions have delivered their results. But I would also mention and commend the action done by the Ministry of the Interior through local police administrations with primary and secondary schools, where it brought students and high school students closer to the dangers of explosive devices, of weapons and that these actions should be done and thus educate our citizens from small feet how to deal with this problem and how to report. This residual weapon and mine explosive means and, of course, continue to demining the Republic of Croatia and enable our people working on demining to have salaries that are worthy of man, that they can live off that salary and also take care of their safety because we see that there are still a large number of people working in demining are suffering in minefields. Because because of this decision to go to as many demining squares as possible, with the drop in price went to the expense of the quality and safety of the people working on these jobs. I think we have a lot of work to do together in that direction. Of course we should mention here and defenders especially those who have a diagnosis of PTSD, so I will give an example from the practice that the Croatian police officer who was among the first to defend Croatia's homeland and was on his way to review and was diagnosed with 20% PTSD. He refused to retire immediately and was allowed to remain in the system. As such, he still worked and carried arms for ten years, and as soon as he retired, they came to him and took his weapon and had no right to carry and hold a weapon because he had 20% PTSD. I don't think that's right, especially since we know from research that this disease is also treatable. And why when you get a diagnosis from a doctor that a man is cured is no longer respected and our volunteers can't get a license to carry and hold a weapon again, and neither does hunting. I think that is why it is good for us to go into another debate and try to solve these cases in order for our people who were among the first to enter the defense of the Croatian homeland, and these were hunters, we know that how important every rifle, volunteer, and that we have to take care of them. Of course, we are called upon by those of us who have the weapon to observe it in accordance with the law, wear and manage it and thus protect ourselves and others in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26883	Thank you. We've got replicas on your exhibit. He's the first to be respected representative of the Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26884	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Vlaović. So, I fully agree with you, we live in the 21st century, informing the system, this information that can be easily reached by a family doctor and the Ministry of the Interior on the change of health of each citizen is something that would certainly facilitate the process itself and should work on it. We now have this Digital Society Central Office, and there the government should make sure that such information is easier to go, especially here, I will stress about hunters, hunting associations. We can't, even though I'm not a hunter, I'm hanging out with them, so I hear they're not just shooting savages. So they do a lot of actions that are of general benefit to society. They are these activities that they conduct in nature certainly affect the individual psychophysical health of a person especially when talking about defenders who are members of hunting associations. But what may be most important to mention is somehow getting through, hunting associations are probably the only associations I know that are funded from their memberships. So rarely or almost I don't know if there are any cases that the local self-government units are funding hunting associations. On the other hand, when it is the day of the municipality, when it is some kind of club has its anniversary, the hunting associations donate meat or what it takes for such a event. In this regard, it is important to be careful and certain that observations under the law should go in such a way that hunters are no longer burdened. It means that this administration is made as easy as possible and that people are doing what is really their hobby and what they love.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26885	Thank you. The next replica is an esteemed representative... And you want to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26886	Excuse me, I've raised my hand you haven't seen. Here's a sentence. Thank you for your support to Croatian hunters and should say that some of them are also available through hunting tourism and that is another reason to be a little more flexible towards the Croatian hunter and the hunter because if a German hunter does not have to have a health card or that he is able to deal with hunting, and he who leads him must go every five years, so here I am also supporting your debate and I hope that all MPs will go to this when it is voted on to respect this requirement to go to ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26887	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you have well established that many of the problems in the past have been with Croatian defenders of PTSD treatment and that in most cases they have suffered and that their weapons have been taken away. They were taken away because they had 20% PTSD and when their selected primary healthcare doctors had already given consent and confirmation that they had improved medically, when a specialist established a competent health care institution of the MUP did not respect it and refused any such proposal which was very strange. I am pleased that it can be in the law that the Minister of Health appoints a commission to solve these cases in the second degree of appeal, and indeed when a man has proven himself well after a medical specialist review, why would he not have the consent again and get the possibility of obtaining weapons because most of our volunteers have gone with hunting weapons in defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. To them it's as if you took one hand away from them with a grenade when you took away their weapons, they're actually in nature with savages but with use and weapons when they need to do the sanitizer actually cure themselves. That's what we need to consider because there's a lot of our boys, I think there's 30,000 of those who are treated with PTSD, and that's a huge number. I don't know exactly how many of them are members of hunting associations and the Hunting Union, but we must seriously stick to the job, given that if doctors of primary health care or selected doctors have a duty to report on the deterioration of the situation, they must also be reported when they have been established according to specialist or personal examinations that man is not dangerous to people and the environment, that he is not schizophrenic, that he is not in F63.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26889	Thank you. The distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26890	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Djakic, so I fully agree with you that this population of defenders who suffer from PTSD did not deserve such treatment at the time that they were taken away from them that even then they could already go with a mild model of agreement with the doctor and different approaches, but immediately the weapons were taken away, and now they have to prove themselves healthy. After that, when they prove they're healthy, they can't get a re-license for holding and carrying guns. And it is good that in the bill of this law, this intensity is to be resolved through a second-degree body, through this commission, because it is certain that going into nature, hunting and recreation and therapy, and that these people should be able to deal with and to live healthy and to deal with hunting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26891	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HNS-HSU MP, Anka Mrak Taritash, on behalf of the Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26892	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. After a long debate like this when there's a lot of clubs and then when you get to the last clubs in line, it's more or less said. However, I think there are always some topics that need to be highlighted, or should be repeated, or highlighted. I'd concentrate here on a few issues. The first theme is first reading, or second reading. It is very interesting that this law has already been in this Chamber in this House, that we have discussed it, that on December 1st it also came into the procedure, that it was a proposal to go first and second reading, so the final proposal by emergency procedure, and now it would be very interesting to know what happened from December 1st to now. And in that I would like to point out and say, I am one of those who advocates that the laws go through two readings. Very often we put a P.Z.E. mark into the law. and we are in line with the directives, but other than compliance with the directives, there are a number of other topics, and then, under compliance with the directive, it goes in an emergency procedure. Much better and better to go in two readings for the simple reason that, through the first reading, we can say a series of remarks, a series of topics, we can come up with some remarks as it came from the Hunting Union. There's obviously something else going on here with these laws, but it's a special topic. Likewise, the EU directive. Croatia is a member of the EU, the bond is applied in its legislation to integrate directives, but we can also adapt some situations here and that directive to our situation. In Croatia there is a tradition of hunting, there is a tradition of archery in Croatia, which I have the opportunity to see when everyone at the Olympics, we are very proud when our gold medals are won and we need to take care of it. I'm the one around here who said what attitude they had toward the weapon. If I had to defend myself, I'd probably defend myself with a cook 'cause I have this attitude towards guns. But in my husband's family, the hunters are traditional. So when there was a traditional hunt and there was always a lot of guns in that house and it was always under lock and key kept the way it was supposed to be and my kids grew up with those guns and never tried or got close to it, nor tried anything at all with guns. But the tradition ends with my father-in-law because he's gone away and checked out neatly, all done was what he had to do at the time when we had years when he decided it would be devastating for him or for everyone else to deal with hunting. What am I saying? Medical examination, let's not be more Pope than Pope. What we need to see is what is happening in other EU countries. I don't have enough data to be able to talk about it metrically, but absolutely don't let it happen, we don't have to let situations happen when we have hunters from Italy or from Germany that apply the rules that apply to them in their country of origin. That our hunters have stricter rules than guests from Italy or Germany come. I can give a slight comparison when we were harmonising the legislation in the area of construction with EU legislation, and I was all the time stressing and, of course, we made it much more liberal so that it didn't happen to us. Because what's going on? It happens to you when you go the other way, when our hunter goes hunting in Italy or Germany is worth what's worth in his country of origin. So let's be smart and coordinate this legislation to be the same, so we don't get stricter. Because what if we don't get a chance to see it? You know when laws are too strict, when they're restrictive then they go to their opposite. Don't let what was an opportunity happen to us and speak here and it's a legal and illegal weapon. If at one point you're too restrictive and too strict, you're threatened with the danger of a part of the legal going underground, so we've made a bigger problem than a solution. And of course, we're talking about those who are in the system, who have legal weapons they use for, but we're not talking about those illegal weapons that we really have in these areas, and from World War II, the rest of the rest of us, I was alone as a girl of 10 years ago when my peer was killed by a bomb that remained from World War II, and I have to admit that I have a trauma for life. There must be a terrible lot of weapons left of the Homeland War, it's an illegal weapon, and it's a special topic that needs to be handled. But I always advocate that we have provisions, that the provisions be clear, that they be unequivocal. I also advocate that we have regulations that define it, but too strict regulations go into their extremes. Let's not do this, and let's not make it equally certain that what's not good, let's not be a stepmother to our people, so that those who do shooting or hunting with us have incomparably more difficult and restrictive conditions than it is for the countries that come here. I will support and our club HNS, HSU will support that this goes in two readings for the simple reason that we are in principle such a position. It is equally good in the process of making any regulation, which is, it is better to consult those who apply this regulation two or three times than to adopt it and then not to apply it or to change it quickly. That's what I'm saying on the trail of objections that came from the hunting alliance or from those who are involved in the shooting. And once again, it is good for us to talk to them and see and bring a regulation that is reasonable, not to bring it in, but to change it immediately and supplement it. What's the problem of weapons is the problem we see in other EU countries, and that's what we're going to do with illegal weapons, it's reckless dealing with these weapons, it's a problem of terrorism that will certainly be a problem this century because it knocks on the door of Europe. However, these are some other regulations that will have to be resolved. Since this law will go into two readings, these remarks, which were made in the first reading, are fundamentally related to compliance with some other EU countries and still to those to whom this law applies, because it is good to see when it comes to the law on the acquisition and registration of weapons, then we are clearly talking about hunters, we are talking about those who are involved in shooting and we are talking about personal security. This for personal security is quite a strict procedure, quite a difficult procedure, so the question is how much must it be. But if this is a law relating to these groups, then let's listen to them, let's talk to them and let's try and, in accordance with EU directives, really see what the rules in EU countries are so that we can be harmonised in this work without being the most restrictive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26893	Thank you very much. But there's a whole series of replicas on your exposure, too. He is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26894	Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, you and I have traditionally agreed on the reasons why we are thinking operationally and what life carries. But as a contribution to your weight here's what I'm going to write down from the directive, or from the call of the European Parliament. So there are 80 million unregistered weapons in the EU. They suggest increasing pressure on criminal markets, proposing curbing illegal arms trafficking, building better intelligence systems. This communication is the European Parliament's call for stronger action in order to identify and address the problem of a sensitive life cycle of firearms and watch out for this protection of legitimate production, sale and possession of firearms, and the interruption of criminal chains and separation from illegal activities. So, the European Parliament has clearly written to us what the European directive also says about curbing illegal, combating illegal and protecting legal production of sales and possession of firearms and what we have said about why to be greater Papa than the Pope? We are for medical examination at the moment when a person is looking for a weapon, we are for checking all of this in a further body, but we are not for imposing something that other countries in the EU do not have, I also said in the first line. You've reached out to me on the subject of hunters who come to our area and who own weapons on a different, more liberal basis than we do. And what I know, and I've got a '83 weapon. In 2000, they introduced these medical examinations, and absolutely nothing changed in that part that something reduced the percentage of those unfortunate events in terms of medical examinations. But it's imposed on hunters who have 30, 40 years of hunting experience and a sense of injustice towards them in that section have to ask his neighbor that has to perform a medical examination that something that's wrong. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26895	Thank you very much. Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak-Taritash, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26896	Thank you very much. So, I might focus on two things here. The first thing is the EU directive and that Croatia has had quite a good experience from the 1990s, which means illegal arms supply, which means resales in the centre of Zagreb because we had what we had and the way Croatia lost its weapons. Indeed different arms dealers walked in the center of Zagreb, I worked in the municipality of Trnja and then... A man with a catalog came by, so you could buy what you wanted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's something that we know through our history, and we certainly need to fight it, and we know how it is. And to get back to this subject of hunters, I really need to set an example that's from my family. My father-in-law, when he turned out to be a certain number of years, said I no longer want to be a hunter for the simple reason that I can be dangerous to myself and others. He's 84 today, 85 years old. He drives a car neatly. And I think he's just as dangerous when he sits behind the wheel, even though he's convinced it's not a problem. But he realized there was a problem. Thus, there is also a need to put in place certain restrictions that are bound no matter what age or need. I wish we had some real experience here that had some neighbouring countries and that it wasn't us now, that we weren't making something new. Let's be smart around here, then rewrite good practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26897	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26898	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Mrs. Taritash, exactly what you said, let's not be more Catholic than the Pope. One example. A European armed pass, so that's what it means for you to get your weapons, I'm going to Italy now to hunt and carry my weapons. In Europe, it's worth it when you're betrayed indefinitely, and it's worth five years in us. And now why? A hunter from the EU can come. So we have entered the EU to accept all good gains and not to underestimate ourselves but to see that we are some primitives, Balkans who are savages who will kill each other and not accept what is positive from the world. Not to say German regulations that are also more liberal than this. So here's what you said, and that's all we need to stick to with all the personal traumas one of us can have. We must not be restrictive to those who have legal weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26899	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26900	I don't usually talk about these topics, so guns aren't too close to me. However, it seems that when I talk about these topics, we all agree, and this is how some satisfaction exists, regardless of what side of the assembly we sit on. Then it is obvious that there is a problem that needs to be solved and properly defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26901	Thank you. Obviously, we all agree, but we all have the urge to talk about it. But let's move on with the replicas. Honourable representative Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26902	Here's my dear colleague, today you mentioned two things I would refer to. The first is this hunting tourism, and we all look back on it. Here's what I'm doing to make us all agree. So it would only contribute to data that we have 7.3 million hunters in Europe and 30% of them travel outside their own country to other hunting sites. And just what we're all saying, so there are hunters in our area who don't have to comply with these provisions that we're predicting by this law. We also said that the basic objective of all the directives is what it says in your proposal, means to prevent illegal arms trafficking. Unfortunately, the proposal further states that binding regulations are being transposed. Then some standards are mentioned, so we manipulate the public often because we have freedom, because it asks us to define different concepts and it doesn't say that we have to define them. And unfortunately, in this law, we're introducing new concepts that we don't define at all, so I definitely agree that we're playing a bigger Catholic than the Pope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26903	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26904	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague here I agree that we should not be a stepmother, there is no need. As far as the law is concerned, I didn't understand, so please just explain better what it means for a foreign hunter in Croatia, which means for a Croatian hunter outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. You have about 60,000 and more hunters, and we have also recently our Olympic champion Glasnovic. As far as shooting is concerned. And now you know what's more peripate when you're going out. You must have international permission. It's one bigger license than these are ours. You sign in, and you go with it. And now I'm asking you, did you mean when we have a weapon so we service it outside the border of the Republic of Croatia it also exists as hunters or when we might be buying ammunition or some kind of weapon off-limits? Did you mean that part of the legislation? That part of you I didn't realize, so I'd just like to ask you to explain if this means potentially when our fellow hunter from Italy comes to the Republic of Italy that the laws of Italy apply to him and hunts here in terms of those five years or did you think of something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26905	Here will be answered by a distinguished representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26906	Thank you very much. My colleague Mikulić, therefore, has a principle that applies in all EU legislation, always applies legislation that applies in the country of origin, is valid here and is valid when you go out. This means, for Croatian hunters, what is worth in our country and applies to them when they hunt in Italy and Germany, and the Germans and the Italians what they have, which is worth there, is worth there. Maybe that's when he might be in some other stuff. So we've had it I can make a comparison when it comes to, say, expert tests in construction. Those expert exams in construction when they're worth it, if you're going out, you have to have proof that you passed it. For example, there is no expert exam in the Netherlands at all, a Dutchman working with us under conditions that are there without a professional examination, so that is the principle of all EU rules to apply your own legislation and there is no possibility that another country will seek you if its legislation is stricter. So I guess I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26907	Thank you. The replica was also sought by the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26908	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, Mrak Taritash, you were talking about this law as if it were a law on the legalization of weapons or a law on weapons that is illegal in somebody's possession. There's nothing like that in that law. So this is the Law on the procurement and registration of weapons of citizens and is clearly classified through certain segments that speak of which weapons citizens can acquire as hunters, as shooters or as personal protection through A, B, C or D categories of weapons that are even electroshockers placed in the D category. So I don't think this law can regulate the illegal arms market or illegal weapons possession. There is the possibility of legalising weapons that are now owned by these categories, and that's what's good, that whenever a citizen comes alone to register or get a license and has a health certificate. So we can't talk about what's illegal when you're holding a weapon illegally, when it's obtained illegally, that's why legal sanctions are defined by other laws, not this law. ... counterpart Djujic also mixed up certain things that do not belong in this law at all. So I was going to say that there is no need to deal with it, this law is only about the purchase and registration of weapons to citizens through these four categories that they can illustrate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26909	Anka's distinguished representative, Mr. Dark Taritash, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26910	Well, my colleague Djakic usually, when I speak, I try very clearly to say that he understands me. I'm letting you know that maybe I didn't get along so well on this subject. No doubt I said what law it was, no doubt I was talking about the fact that a much bigger problem was illegal weapons. And maybe you're confused by one sentence that I said that if we're being re-restrictive, then we might find that people who, in accordance with the law, are really trying to do everything legally, that we're partially letting them go and being illegal about it. So it was absolutely clear what the subject was, what the attitude was and what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26911	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the time will be shared by the esteemed Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric and Marko Sladoljev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26912	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected State Secretary, fellow MPs. On behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists, I would like to refer to the already submitted proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens. In particular, when the applicable Law on Weapons and the applicable Law on Explosive Substances intertwines these two laws in parts regulating the business of economic operators, it has been decided that they will regulate a specific Law on Explosive Substances and the production and transport of weapons which would bring these two areas together as a result of simpler application and better control of the implementation. Provisions under the applicable arms law relating to the transport and manufacture of weapons, possession of arms, repair and processing of weapons, transport of weapons and testing and marking of firearms and civilian firearms with the necessary changes and additions will be taken over by the Proposal for a law on explosive substances, as well as by the production and transport of weapons. In order to contain only provisions governing the procurement and registration of arms supplied by citizens for civil use, the use of these weapons and ammunition proceedings in the event of the death of gun owners, the circumstances under which arms and ammunition are taken from citizens and the carrying of weapons across the state border, and as those provisions also need to be partially amended and supplemented by the scope of the material to be exempted and amended by the Arms Act, it is proposed to adopt a new law whose name will be the law on the acquisition and registration of arms of citizens. According to this proposal, all types of firearms listed in the directive on the control, supply and possession of weapons are classified in two categories, in category A, in which firearms have been classified, and in Directive B, in which there remains a weapon, as well as category C and D, in which the weapons that have been classified after the procurement must be declared to the competent police authority and category D for which they do not have to be reported unless they go beyond the state border. The age limit for the supply of arms is 21 years with the exception of the police officers of the MUP, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Judicial Police and other state authorities and security guards who are authorised to hold and carry arms under special regulations, members of the Sports Shooting Organization who are actively competing in shooting and persons with a hunting test capable of obtaining weapons from 18 years of age. When prescribing the general conditions that must be met for the supply of arms as one of the conditions, there is also a reasonable reason for the supply of weapons, as it also states as a condition for the Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons. For a person who has a valid arms list that has previously been obtained on the basis of an authorisation issued for the supply of arms in each of the following requests for authorisation for the supply of weapons, a procedure for the establishment of the general and specific conditions necessary for the possession of weapons shall not be carried out. The procedure for establishing general and specific conditions other than health conditions will not be implemented even when the arms list is extended. This proposal for a law makes it more clear that, without the right to compensation, the confiscation of weapons established in the registration procedure has not been examined and marked in accordance with the regulations or cannot be proved to be of origin as well as the weapons for which the registration procedure finds it technically incorrect and that it is not possible to train it for safe use. The Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens regulates issues relating to the supply and registration of arms of citizens, as long as the supply of weapons for the purposes of legal persons and activities related to weapons, production, transport, repair and repair of weapons, the management of civil shooting sites is regulated by the Law on Explosive Substances and Production and Transport of Weapons, which is also in the procedure of adoption. The relevant Arms Act does not contain a provision stating who in the area of the Republic of Croatia can own weapons, and this provision is also added to the proposal for a Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens. The proposal for a law, as well as the applicable law, particularly highlighted a safeguard for domestic violence as an obstacle to the supply of arms, since that safeguard measure can also be imposed on its own without criminal sanctions imposed in an infringement procedure. This provision of the bill stipulates that authorised medical institutions carrying out medical examinations to determine the medical capacity for the possession of weapons must, in addition to the opinion of the selected primary healthcare doctor, obtain the opinion of the selected medical specialist psychiatrist. In this way, a specialist psychiatrist at an authorised health institution will have better insight into the mental state of the Croatian defender because he will also get the opinion of the selected psychiatrist who follows the mental state of the Croatian defender over a long period of time. It is also the paper in the bill of law in relation to the applicable law that any subsequent request for the authorisation of the supply of weapons by a person who already has a valid gun gun list that has previously been obtained on the basis of an authorisation for the purchase of a weapon will not be subject to field checks by police officers because the checks carried out in the first supply of the weapon have been identified as to what kind of person it is and whether it is a conflict person who is in occasional or permanent conflicts with the hosts or the environment in which he lives. Finally, I would also like to say that our legislation has shown itself well in this case and that there is no need for further liberalisation but not too restrictive. Namely, the ministry will respect all those amendments to all articles that went into a more restrictive relationship with individuals of arms, so persons who legally and in a way possess weapons, although in this case by changing the existing law on a more restrictive relationship, are not considered to be considered to be a matter of medical examination because it is not considered a more restrictive relationship since it is an assessment of the psycho-physical capacity of an individual and the key role in deciding whether a person can own a weapon is precisely a specialist in medical work, because only they provide an objective assessment of the individual's psycho-physical ability to carry weapons, drive management or other special conditions. And we heard that only, that we only have four applications from family medical doctors who reported a change in the condition of people who own weapons. Well, it's not like we can say that out of so many thousands of people who have, they own weapons in a legal way that only four people have changed their health status. So that's incorrect because doctors and justifiably themselves have a reason to resent exactly that application, which is that they probably think for themselves about what kind of situation we would be in when a person who legally has a weapon just because of your application essentially loses that possibility. What we want to point out is that exactly our bill is not for any disarmament of the Republic of Croatia as well as against persons legally owned by weapons. What we want is very simple, which is that the gun owner is a capable person with a legal weapon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26913	Thank you. Here will continue the esteemed representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I will present this law that has caused less dispute, the Explosive Substances Act, and the production and transport of weapons. What is important to note is that the purpose of this law is to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the new EU Directive on the placing of explosive substances on the market. The deadline for the transposition of this Directive into EU Member States' national legislation was 20 April 2016. So we are very late to transpose the directive, which is why the European Commission has initiated the procedure for breach of EU law. Furthermore, in addition to the obligation to comply with our legislation with the directive, the purpose of adopting this law is to improve the control of explosive substances, which is why provisions are transposed into this law and the now applicable Law on the transport of dangerous substances relating to the transport of explosive substances. The disorder of this area is a major problem for legal persons involved in the activities and manufacture of weapons and it is a very important export branch of our economy. In addition to the economic importance here, it should certainly be noted that, because of the lack of regulation, it is not possible to fully monitor the production and transport of weapons of category A, which is an unacceptable situation for security reasons. In addition to the aforementioned transposition of the Act on the Transport of Dangerous Substances relating to the transport of explosive substances, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. This law transposes the provisions of the act of the now applicable Weapons Act relating to the production and transport of weapons or to the transfer of safety conditions of the procedures that companies must comply with in the production and transport of weapons. This unification of regulation is necessary because of the related nature of the area of production and transport of explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons. In fact, the present situation when the production and transport of weapons was regulated by one law, the Law on Weapons and the Production and Transport of Explosive Substances by other law of the Explosive Substances Act made it very difficult for companies engaged in those activities. In addition to the simpler business of companies, the unifying of the production and transport of explosive substances and weapons into one law ensures better control of explosive substances and weapons, which is very important from the point of view of safety. This law also creates a legal framework for the adoption of rules on the appearance of documents and the way information is exchanged with EU Member States on the transfer of explosive substances within the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26915	Thank you. We have if you thought we would pass without the replica we have a replica and this on the presentation of the distinguished colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, has a replica of the respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26916	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Ninčević, I wanted to replicate. So, you reiterated the reasoning of the law that the fundamental intensity of this law is the safety of citizens, so those who possess weapons, those who do not possess it, those who would like to own it. You have stressed again and it is good to hear that during both this debate and the second reading that some things will still be applied to make the procedure simpler, so as not to put more pressure on especially hunters and especially others. And what I wanted to point out is not true, we now have the impression that a rigorous law is being passed, and so far we have had a liberal law. No, this law that we have is also very rigorous and according to the consequences of the present-day gun owners, which in my opinion is not bad. But sometimes in practice, I'm only going to give two examples. Sometimes in practice it can be very bad. A man who wasn't even present, members of his family gave a child, a granddaughter, to take a picture during his birthday with a gun. It's posted on Facebook. The police came, took all the weapons. Another example where a man with an airarm shot, there was an injury. He was also deprived of all the firearms he had. So it's not true that so far the law is very liberal, so it's rigorous and all today's gun owners have real control and all those measures that would not endanger both their health and their environment. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26917	Thank you. The distinguished representative Ninčević-Lesandric will respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26918	My colleague Tomislav, I agree with you, and that's exactly what I wanted to point out earlier that with all this law has gone into some sort of, I feel like when people, here I'm going to say exactly what my colleague Bunjac is saying when he read the article that he doesn't understand what he's read at all. So, he's just earlier on saying that this law has to put an anti-lock door in order for a man to own a weapon that isn't true. So this same article says that a person has to have a safe, unless there's a safe, another option is that if there's no safe, there's got to be a back door in the apartment. So the law has given one option before, and now it has two. So the whole way he understands, that is, the way he wants to understand the law is to blame. So, of course you're not going to harm hunters, and I'm the first member of the hunting alliance. So I'm a hunter and I'm the daughter of one of the biggest collectors in the country. But I just don't understand why such an approach. That's basically what we've been saying all along. Of course there have been objections and of course there will be amendments and of course they will be discussed, that everything that stands will be respected. That was never a problem at least when it came to the MOST club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26919	Thank you. Now we're going to move on to individual debates that have quite a number. She will be the first to be the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26920	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, we all agree that this has to go in two readings and I can't understand how it occurred to someone that this law could be passed by emergency procedure because this law is too important. So this isn't the law on cleaning agents, this isn't the broom law, this is the Arms Act. Guns hurt and kill. A weapon like the secretary of state rightly said dangerous. And it's not as dangerous as my colleague Sanader says as electricity, so he says the current is dangerous. Well, yeah, only the current drives the machines, and the weapons trigger the wars. The current lights up, and the weapon shuts down people's lives. So it would be about like comparing Samuel Colt to the inventor of the modern gun and Nikola Tesla, even if he's from Sanader too. It discussed whether this law was restrictive or liberal. I don't think he's restrictive or liberal, and if he were me, he'd be more restrictive. It is said that every five years what is and under the applicable law should be checked for the medical ability of someone to have a license to carry a weapon. Well, of course you should. Did any of you ever hear of anyone getting paranoid in 48 years, for example? He's got a man's obsession with persecution, and he's got a weapon and he hasn't always been sick. He got sick at 48. So is he dangerous or harmless to anyone of common sense? Well, of course you have to check it out, so how different. I don't think anyone diagnosed with any mental illness should have a license to carry a weapon or drive a motor vehicle, because it's a danger to society. And if we introduce it as a rule here in law, whoever suffers from any mental illness, and not now that the doctor assesses whether he is suffering enough, then, as instructed by the Defense Minister, approves or not. He can't carry a gun, he can't get a license to carry a gun. I am convinced that the number of people suffering from PTSD would have decreased significantly, significantly. They would have healed in large numbers. What weapon? Well, not whoever wants a weapon, who likes a weapon. Well, society must strive to keep as few weapons in the community as possible, not as much as possible. What weapon? The one who needs a weapon. And who needs it? He needs the army, he needs the police, he needs the guards, he needs the hunters, he needs personal protection. For personal protection only when there's no other option. If I feel threatened by anyone, it's up to me to go to the police, because cops have the right to carry guns, and it's my right to pay taxes to expect the police to protect me, not that I have to protect myself from the police. For personal protection to whom? Yeah, someone who lives alone. Somewhere on a hill, there's no one around. He can have a bear, a wolf somewhere in his face. Yeah, to him yeah, to him for personal protection. He's not by nature a hunter at all, but he needs it. To someone who lives in the city, why would he need a weapon for personal protection? Well, call the police and the police will be here for a minute and a half and they'll protect him. Who needs it? He needs athletes. What about the trophy weapon? Well, of course, the trophy weapon, the trophy weapon, yes, but to disable it if it wasn't for use, that no one could be killed or wounded, so the man kept it as a memory. He was wearing it in the war and now he's got it, so put it out, watch it, show it, here's my war trophy. The old collector's weapon, yes, of course, but it's also completely incapacitated in a way that can't be re-enabled. Yes, for showing it, it will not destroy it, so we will not set it on fire, so we will not disintegrate it. One category of deputy that wasn't even worked out here in law, which would fall under this category C, that's a big weapon, a weapon used in the theater. They have a big problem with it, it belongs to this category C. There's only one article about it, and it's a weapon that must look like a right, you have to hear a shot like it's right, you have to blow a flame like it's a shot fired, and it's got to be completely harmless. That doesn't matter so much in the film industry because they have pyrotechnics who do it. But the theaters used to have guns, but he's got to hire a regular man, he's got to pay him a salary to deal with. And when such a single weapon will be used in the play, maybe every six, seven years. Therefore, this should solve what kind of weapon must be in that C category, must be bought and reported to the police, of course, that the theatre has which type must be harmless, must be examined, the needle must be removed or already. Well, get it done, describe it, that's what experts are describing, it's not my place to describe. And I agree with what's being said on behalf of the club, there's very little talk or nothing about illegal weapons, and that's the biggest problem. The scheduled sentence, please, is the only one in that article 72 mentioned from five thousand to fifty thousand kuna or 45 days in prison. And the biggest punishment that law enforcement can give is 90 days in prison. So for some other act, there can be more severe punishment than for illegal weapons possession. Well, forgive me, but it's a paradox. The first illegal possession of arms and trade in those weapons, selling or buying those weapons should not fall within the sphere of crime but rather in the sphere of criminal responsibility and serious criminal offences for which the sentence of five years of imprisonment has been prevented. So you sell the gun or buy it when you know that if you find a gun in your house, you'll go to jail for five years. Three times we've extended the deadline, three times to hand over illegal weapons, not yet handed over without punishment. Of course, hand him over and no sanctions will be imposed against you. Think about it, let's reward them, let's give them a reward. Buying out illegal weapons, the state should set up a trust to buy out illegal weapons and introduce a deadline for six months, and after that, if you find a weapon, then you'll go to jail for two years, if you own an illegal weapon and trade with it. Then it would be a measure, a serious measure to get rid of the illegal weapons that I agree with Djujic poses the greatest danger. But we, as a society, must agree whether we will be a society that will cultivate a weapons cult or which weapons will be regarded as one necessary means of defence of freedom, state, freedom of citizens, the protection of their lives, the efficiency of the police, or we will turn into one society that so legalises, allow anyone or make it easier for everyone or allow everyone to come into possession of weapons and pose a danger to each other. I'm not for that kind of company, I'm not and I'm sure until the second reading you can work this out, you can improve this, and we can work out such a better and safer society together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26921	Thank you very much. The next debate is that of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26922	Dear Vice President, State Secretary and Associates. Here I am in more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26923	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We had two replicas. The first is the honourable representative of Sanader, and the second is the honourable representative of Vučetic. My bad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26924	Thank you, Vice President. Sir, I still don't think guns are dangerous. The weapon is dangerous in the hands of a lunatic, a patient, a dangerous illegal weapon, a dangerous weapon in the hands of an ignorant. And that's why I gave that comparison to the power but that wasn't the reason for the insult. And at Sanader's too. What does that mean, too much? To a different opinion. Is that democracy? You're afraid of guns, obviously you have some youth stress, old age. ... I'm saying you're obviously having some kind of gun stress because you're saying if we make weapons possible, then they're a danger to others. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why is it a danger? Do hunters pose a danger to others? People who have a legal license for weapons, people who passed hunting exams, who have confirmation from the official authorities that they know how to handle guns. And in that sense, it was my comparison with both the electricity and the car, everything is dangerous, everything can cause danger to human beings and the environment. Someone gets sick at 48, someone's been sick since birth, but it's not all a reason to insult them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26925	The honourable representative Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26926	Guns are not only dangerous in the hands of lunatics and patients as you say. I read the articles in the Black Chronicle as you did that the child came to visit his father's weapon and killed himself or his sister, and that child is neither mad nor sick. Guns are dangerous, you understand that, Mr. Sanader, it's dangerous always. You're saying why I feel guns as a danger. Well, because I read articles like that. One who owns a weapon always or can come into a situation to use it. People get into a fight at the pub. One of them says I'm going home to get the AK and I'm going to kill you all. He's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, If he hadn't had a Kalashnikov, he would have overcome his anger in some other way. Maybe he'd fight, maybe he'd beat someone up or someone would beat him up, but he wouldn't shut down five lives. He did it because he had a chance to do it and he had a chance because he owned a weapon. And that's why I think weapons are dangerous and that we need to do everything a society can, but just to understand what you don't understand, Mr. Sanader, that weapons are dangerous and that we need to put them under control as much control as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26927	Thank you. Dear Representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26928	I'd agree with you to the extent that we're starting from the fact that the arms debate is only vertical if we go from man to weapon and not from weapon to man because when we define reality from man then we'll never forget that it's the fundamental identity of being who... at a human level and it's called human that then human beings will always try to protect it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the basic definition of man is that he is a hunter, warrior and a gunman then man ceases to be a homo ludens who plays with weapons as a hunter but plays as a man and then becomes a danger in the human world, so that, in the light of this debate, he will agree that weapons are a danger if the starting point is but there is no danger if man is a starting point and in determining man and weapon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26929	Dear Representative Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26930	The only thing I can wish my dear colleague for this sentence to be a motto to the ministry in making second reading of the law, to come from the fact that this law must be a law on the protection of a man, a law for the benefit of a man, not a law for the benefit of a weapon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26931	Thank you. The individual debate will now be held by distinguished MP Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26932	I will take the right to speak on behalf of 70,000 members of hunting companies in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia who own these 127 thousand pieces of weapons in their debate. I will take the right to speak of the Croatian Hunting Union delivering amendments back to last year in the fifth month, that it was then required to enter the second reading, that this law does not go according to emergency procedure, that now suddenly it has come up again in the emergency procedure and therefore I am sharply on the side of all of my club that we discussed today to go to the second reading. When we look at this law and what it means is a weapon for those who legally own it that are members of associations, clubs, organizations that deal with it and who are some kind of tool. If we go to two extremes about what the gun was just before, I recently watched some kind of documentary show, so one of the warriors no longer knows what side they were talking about burning down houses, so they left a butane bottle on the ground floor, and they lit candles on the floor, and then after an hour, everything flew into thin air. A recent case of a truck that killed 37 people, trampling in France, so here we're talking about two completely different things. We are talking about something that is legal, something that is legal and we are talking about the regulations and directives of the European Union, we are talking about what has lasted for hundreds of years and has never been outside the law in those 125 years of the existence of the Croatian Hunting Union that members of the Croatian Hunting Union have laid down and that they have made orderly requests for the purchase of weapons, that they have been checked by former SUPs, the MUPs, you no longer know what is called, that control of them is practically daily but not only of the institutions of this kind that refer to the Ministry and the law but also the organisations and members of these organisations themselves through their statutes, the courts, the assembly, the elections of democracy within these societies, and these are the institutions themselves. And when we talk about problems relating to the supply of this weapon and what the Croatian Hunting Union has indicated, what the shooting alliance shows, it points to some illogicalness why imposing stricter rules on our citizens than other citizens of the European Union, why being more rigorous in that part when we know that by some 2,000 years when some health checks have been introduced, this introduction of health checks has not changed anything in a statistical sense. So there will always be some events, some abuses. There's always a possibility that with some kind of legal weapon, you can do something that shouldn't be done, but it's not a problem in that part. Because something could happen at any moment to someone, but the problem is exactly what I've been talking about here all along in illegal weapons, in that weapon that's buried somewhere, that's hidden somewhere, that someone's going to be doing with it some kind of crime and that no one has any record of that weapon. For my weapons, for the arms of Dragica, Ivana, Anta Sanader and the MUP and the state and everyone knows. Why some sort of solution? Here is the Croatian Hunting Union, in its one amendment, has moved to delete Article 16. Why not delete it when it's completely rational and normal? What does this article prescribe? This article provides for a complete and multi-page health care facility that will examine the health capacity of the applicant for, yes. If we look at what it says here, it's just ridiculous. It's not the subject of this law at all. I welcome the part about simplifying the procedure for the purchase of other weapons. So if you've met all the criteria and checks and health skills in the first weapon, and you already have one weapon of that kind of weapon. If you have a smooth pipe now you're getting a cartoon because you need to use it to carry out your activities, I'm talking again about hunting activity, then it's perfectly rational and it's normal that you put it into this law and I welcome it. If there was no need to carry out any more tests, some kind of investigation, in the neighborhood to ask who he is and how he is, and therefore he's going into something that's out of the domain of today's social order, that police officers are going around the neighborhood and I don't know Sasa Djujic in Novi Vinodolski and they're asking him what he is, so they can give him the guns. Here's an example. I think these are some things that the Croatian Hunting Union should not go into at all. The shooting alliance warns of that. When we talk about children, about young people who join some associations, associations that are shooting clubs. I've got it in my field, and I know he's got the interest of a minor to deal with that kind of shooting sport of flying targets. My city is into it and the county has invested over a million kunas in the shooting range, in those target bouncers, in helping supply and ammunition and weapons for that shooting range because it's a sport. Luke and arrow, spear. I mean, when we talk about something that's a means, then I can agree with what the predecessors just said. It's not a weapon problem, it's the one he's got. And that's the problem who has it we've solved. We've solved it in a way that he's satisfied the procedure, that he's passed some kind of test, that he's trained to handle these weapons, because he can't give it to someone who hasn't been trained, that he had the object of ballistics on some kind of hunting test, so he knows what it's about and what the danger it is, that there's a crate or a closet or that anti-break door that you've prescribed where he has to keep them. But the intensity of the EU directive will repeat that, what they write, write, enable legal production, sales and possession of firearms and relief. And suspending criminal chains and deterring illegal use, increasing pressure on criminal markets, curbing illegal arms trafficking, building better intelligence systems. That's the meaning of this directive that you call upon when we go into the procedure of passing this law. And I'm still asking myself why an emergency procedure? Why don't you listen to everything? Listen to those involved – Croatian Shooting Union, Croatian Hunting Union. We're talking about what can happen to a weapon, what can happen to a car, a truck, what can happen in the mountains, what can happen to the cold weapons that everyone owns from us in the drawer, in the kitchen. I mean, they're mixed pots, and there's a commitment, and I am in favour of prescribing a medical examination in the supply of weapons. The obligation to report the chosen physician, the obligation to connect the selected physician to the MUP, or police administration in the area where he lives, and to carry out some sort of permanent control. What does a review mean 5 years or 10 years? What can happen after six months after someone has been examined? What Mr. Stazic mentioned could then go crazy and do something. But if we're talking about the means someone deals with, to perform sports, then it's that I'm not talking about other laws that go to harm hunters about a savage being declared a dangerous asset. So it's the responsibility to run into a gamer's hunting company and bear the costs. I mean crazy. Hunters, the Croatian Hunting Union is looking for nothing but equality with other EU citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26933	Thank you. And we have replicas on your exhibit. She is the first to be the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26934	Dear colleague Klaric, I didn't mean to talk about hunters, because I really don't think I'm a hunter, I don't have a passion for it, but I appreciate hunters. I appreciate the hunters for knowing that they spend more time protecting savages, feeding game, helping game than hunting, shooting savages. I have many friends who are hunters and they do not pose a social danger to that I'm sure because I haven't read that the hunter took his hunting rifle and killed someone. There's been a hunting accident, they shoot each other because they think it's a rabbit, but it's, it's an accident, I wasn't talking about athletes, and that's where I'd stand up for a little loose. With us children are allowed to start dealing with 11 years of age, in other countries with 9 shootings. Well, let's cut it down, so it's a sport. Why? Well, because sooner or later they'll gain competence, or else these others will always be better than them. So why should we be better, so why shouldn't our children be better? It's completely under control. I wasn't talking about the dangers when I was talking about actors because they don't pose danger, but let's set it up and that they can use the theatre plays of weapons and that it looks convincing. But why must we be there, perhaps even more stringent than the European Union? Because we've got a problem, we've got a problem, we've had a war of unhappy, so we've got a residual weapon since World War II, let alone Homeland. We got him, they don't have him, and we need to be aware of that danger. We've got that trophy weapon. Which Djujic is a hunter, he passed a hunting test but has no weapons. But I agree with him asking his neighbors if he'd ask for weapons as much as they think of them. If they came to me, I'd say give him a weapon, Sasa Djujic is harmless.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26935	Thank you. The distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26936	Comrade Stazic, believe me, every time I personally, my friends, my colleagues put a gun on our shoulders and go up to the mountain we are very aware of what can happen to us and we have taken the risk that something might happen to us, as can happen to those who are climbing the Himalayas to be buried by an avalanche, which I am aware of, and I have taken the right to use. But it's my decision as a decision by someone to engage in shooting and shoot clay pigeons or some kind of target on a sniper. And it's really here to talk about the legal part, not to tell the illegal part you're talking about, and we're chasing all the pots together, so crime happens with illegal weapons. The illegal weapons he has on all sides are estimated to be somewhere around 500 thousand even pieces, I don't know how credible that data is, since it's been brought out by the UN there in the '90s, there's probably been a little less of a series of gun-good-bye actions and everything else, but the problem is, and let's focus on how it's all of us together to fight that there isn't one of us. But let's not touch those rights of people who end up spending a lot of money on their own, let's just say "dush," my pleasure without talking about the work that these societies and these people are investing in hunting sites, especially now in winter months, they're sinking and tons of food are being brought out. During the summer, the name in the Croatian Hunting Union and in all hunting societies, their statutes "creation, protection" and "hunting" comes only in the end, and we all need to understand and be aware and a little more down to that level of some kind of satisfaction in the form of recognition of their activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26937	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26938	Yeah, as far as Sasha's concerned, don't give him any weapons, but with the keyboard careful. So, you mentioned to your colleague Klaric your determination that the law goes into regular procedure. I'm usually watching, twice in the two convocations of the Parliament managed to get into an emergency procedure, not by the Holy Spirit, so twice the parliamentary majority on the government's proposal, with opposition from the opposition, voted to go into emergency procedures and twice after that she said she was going to regular procedure. I think the key question of this law is what my colleague Grumoja said in a replica to someone, and that's what we are for liberalisation or for an even more restrictive law, and there should have been a debate in the first reading. This is how it turns out that all the amendments that the Croatian Hunting Union sent to a large number of clubs were cooked and that only then we referred to them and began to think about what we voted at the beginning of the emergency procedure. How long is this actually a long story on several fronts shows the fact that this law was at a public debate in January 2015 while our government was in similar content. Afterwards, he did not go into parliamentary procedure, so the second government came and sent a similar law to the emergency procedure that the parliamentary majority voted for, held the debate, returned to the regular procedure to send the third government and the same law to the emergency procedure, and the third assembly of parliament returned the law to the regular procedure. I think that's enough to say that it's time for you to approach the proposal a little more seriously and not send it to the government before you have a wide debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26939	Thank you. A colleague, Klaric, has an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26940	I fully agree with you in that section that it was not necessary to do so, among other things, because I was very keen in my club when we discussed it I was in favour of going to regular procedure because it still needs to be talked about and agreed on because it is not only that the Croatian Hunting Union influenced it but rather a slightly wider circle of people, including the Shooting Union and all those who actively deal with it. And you're absolutely right when you're now implying to me a message to the MUP that before it puts the law in the process, we agree all of those views together, especially for the reasons that you said it was exactly what you said, and you know well when your government was doing so, and this first part of last year in 5, 6. I mean, this right now. I think that finally after this debate where we are a little bit and arduous I suppose we will reach a final solution for both the Croatian Hunting Union and the Shooting Union, where we will in some way enable all those weapons owners who legally possess it to have their weapons in a easier, more liberal way, and to be more restrictive towards all those who possess it illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26941	Thank you very much. The individual debate will now be held by distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26942	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, the theme is the Arms Act and what I'd like to say first is that it doesn't kill guns, it kills people. Weapons, so one knife can be used to cut tomatoes, and it can also be used for cold-blooded murder. I'd like to say that in the last terrorist attacks, even the weapon wasn't actually used. What was used? A truck. In Nice, a man killed 80 people with a truck. It's a similar thing in Berlin. You have a case in Oklahoma City when Timothy McQuy with a car bomb that was essentially a truck full of fertilisers, artificial fertilisers, because when an artificial fertiliser mixes with gasoline or diesel, there's an explosive mixture that even caused and let's say an earthquake in Oklahoma in the city itself. When it went down, he killed 163 people. And what's going on? All the time, the weapon is depicted as a “grandmother horn. ” However, restrictive arms laws do not solve the problem. Great Britain, when faced with terrorism, with IRA terrorism, then brought in the most restrictive law on illegal weapons, not legal weapons, because people involved in crime will not go to law enforcement. Because a legal weapon can be easily found, can be traced to it. And cut the story short. The dragon's penalties for possession of illegal weapons were, in fact, all suspicious people were taken to prison. You could've gotten for the gun you had without a permit for 10 years in prison. And for that very reason, the English police Bobby didn't even need guns for a long time, because the simply weapon was removed from the street. Someone will say, again, that the weapons of danger, however, in Switzerland, all the Swiss citizens who passed the military deadline on their way out of the army get a gift from the state's automatic rifle and keep that automatic rifle at home. And you will see that there is no armed violence in Switzerland. It doesn't mean now that a man has a gun and now he goes down the road and shoots or shoots neighbors, etc. What do I mean by that? It is that the Arms Act should be more liberal. What does that mean? That would mean to me that red tape about getting guns should be simpler, to watch if a man is normal and if he is, a man is free to carry a weapon. But we often have cases like in the river when a man, I think, even with a legal weapon killed someone. Which will say that there are a lot of people in my opinion who shouldn't have legal weapons or people who shouldn't have had it as well as that general Corrade who killed people in the woods, etc. Suma sumarum, those who are not allowed to have weapons should not be allowed to have weapons regardless of the generals and members of the HDZ, etc. If I'm not mistaken, there was even one HDZ representative who threatened to use a gun in Virovitica. I read it somewhere in the current session, which often called me for violence. I mean, if the law were strictly applied to those who, if they had a license to hold guns, and they carry guns around and threaten, if they were given adequate penalties for such things, means years of prison sentences, you would immediately solve the problem of those who possess illegal weapons, and those who possess legal penalties would think very well about how they would treat them. And as for home, the right to self-defense is, in my opinion, a fundamental human right, and everyone should have the right to protect their own home. Home is the last thing I'd say, the last line of defense is yes. And this story about you having to have a doorway in the room where you keep your guns, so that's crazy. That's crazy to me, because here I am asking you in the House, so which one of you locks the door all over your house, who? Well, no one in their right mind does that. I don't know, and now even if a man had a front door, what would he go to unlock and lock the bedroom every day? I mean, be careful not even says the law has to have a locked door when the police come in, but it's just that the doors are there. He doesn't even have a key to this. It could have a simple anti-lock door. Now, of course, I point to illogicality, but I'm afraid the legislator won't hear me, he won't want to hear me. But I hope again that he will take to the heart of my remark, that is, once Jesus said when he spoke, he says “my words do not penetrate into you. ” I hope my words break through, that at least they will soften up on this issue with the anti-invasion door. And in the end, you have a police officer with an official gun to rob a bank. It was in Spain, I remember Erste's bank office. You have a police officer who kills a woman with his official weapon. Is it a wrong weapon, or is it a man's fault? I think he's a guilty man, because even if that cop didn't have an official weapon, he'd get illegal. So, I guess I'm saying that the weapon again is portrayed as a grandma horn, and the real grandma horns are bad people. A real bogeyman is a state that doesn't allow illegal weapons owners to legalize him. Because you have a lot of people with illegal weapons and they know they can't legalize it, but they're not violent people, they're not people who trade guns. They don't keep him home just in case. And I'm supposed to let those people hold that weapon, but to sign up, to know that he has a weapon man. Well, he won't be walking with Kalashnikov on the road now. I'm talking about Switzerland. And if one Switzerland has a system where people can own a long weapon, that is, to sum up the whole story like this. In order for weapons to be owned without a problem, there would have to be a legal system that would punish those who illegally possess it and make problems with it, and we do not currently have a functioning legal system. And for that reason, the legislator, I think, is desperate for more restrictive measures against weapons. If the legal system worked, neither would the people who killed be free. What you say with 500 criminal charges or I don't know how many convictions a man doesn't know what he's done, not a hundred times or five hundred times. You have a situation where a man who's five hundred times been taken away from him I don't know his driver's license or was found without a driver's license he's still driving the car. It's not because then they say what kind of man it is. Well, it's not man's fault, it's the legal system that doesn't work. But in order to solve the problem of the legal system, a legal state, rule of law and law should be established, and it is clear that, unfortunately, the ruling majority, both today and yesterday, and probably tomorrow, in my opinion, and that is what the citizens themselves see, has no intention of doing. And the only thing that works explicitly in this country under quotes are the performances, there's the legislator let's say he was thorough what to the last June. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26943	Thank you. We have a replica of the distinguished representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26944	Comrade Pernar, please don't be a colleague of Bunjac, read the articles of the law. It's a nice writing to you. It says: “Weapon and ammunition shall not be kept in a separate room with the anti-region door referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article if its owner owns a safe, metal cabinet or something like that.” And when we are at a locked door and it is written to you in law, so Article 34 says, “In a separate room with an anti-invasion door in such a way that they are not available to the person who is not authorized to own it.” So we are also giving you the possibility that this door should not be locked with the key, you can cement them as far as we are concerned, but are not allowed to be available, so they are closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26945	Here will be answered by the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26946	And look, I'll say it like this. You can fight anyone but your own wife, your own family members. And here's the suspicion of family members. I guarantee you that there is no such protection measure, there is no protection measure in me that can prevent any of the people in the house from coming to arms, and even if there is no safe, and even if there is a front door, even if there is a door against the door, I guarantee you that a woman will be able to reach that weapon. I guarantee it. So it's all a farce to me. I understand that when a man carries a weapon with him that must be an empty frame, I understand that. But I say this story with the safe or as an alternative, like if there's no safe, you can have a doorway in the bedroom. Well, the door would rather be protected from a mistress than to protect access to a weapon, or whatever. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26947	Thank you very much. You'll probably work it out when we talk about gender equality, the Law on Gender Equality. But the next individual debate was attended by a distinguished representative, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26948	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President, thank you to the proposing representatives. I'd say that through this debate, there's always something on your face, the person of the proposer, and there's some sort of surprise on ours. We're always surprised at something, even though I have to admit that we have the same sense of humor, so when a colleague talks, we're all laughing in the same voice. You can usually see this surprise because we have different attitudes and that's okay, and that's why this debate takes so long, because we keep arguing. But I think that we all here individually aim to reduce the abuse of weapons, to reduce the deaths resulting from the misusing of weapons. You've reported that 20% of these cases were created by a legal weapon and I honestly can't find out where those data were officially published because we have that 2.7, but that's not the most important thing. Even if this law, in my opinion, is restrictively reduced by those 2.7%, I really support it. However, I fear that this will lead us to another extreme, that it will increase that gray zone and that we will have even more illegal weapons and in your proposal, it says that exactly the main goal is to fight illegal weapons. And we're often here in the legal domain, and unfortunately, people get the impression, we're worried about doing everything by the book, so we're asked for even more. And simply, the citizens who come to me are concerned for a reason with the hunters when we know what their contribution to the Homeland War was. But I also deeply believe that disarming this country is definitely not your intensity, and I'm joining, and I believe it's your attitudes. Last year, I personally acquired the terms and conditions and I own a hunting card, and I am most interested in living in these other aspects of environmental protection, feeding, especially this recovery of wild animals, and I thought that this law would help young hunters even more, to define their internship, to define even more in order to unify and educate young hunters and their surveillance, but what happened to one restrictive provision in Article 12 that since the age of 21, hunters could only acquire weapons and in the middle of the debate, you felt the need to refer to the comparison of fellow Tudjman who mentioned that the supply of arms in other countries and, at age 9, so you compared it means that in other countries we have not with 14, but with 16, 18, but I personally did not see, so I believe that you will look back at how many countries they provide, which give people with only 21 years of safety in the area that we have access to, in particular, and in particular, young people who have access to young people who have access to young people who have access to, who have access to, who have access to, and who have access to young people who have access to young businesses, who have access to the safety, who have access to young people, who have access to young people, who have access to their property, who have access to their property, who have access to their property, who have access to the right, who have access to their property, and who have access to their property, and who have access to their property. It is also constantly stressed that binding regulations are being transposed, and I think that people have one reluctance towards these European Union directives precisely because we often manipulate them. So, we're prescribed that we arrange certain items and relationships but I won't stick around for a long time because I've already looked back on that, and I think that we simply have, that the directives don't order us to do anything, so when we defend the law, we have to keep talking about the arguments, and not someone has given us that, and we have to bring it in, we simply get one mistrust, and so we get a mistrust in the medical examinations when you also report that you have to comment on the need to introduce medical examinations every five years. We heard and we know that we have to define a deadline in which we need to rebuild it, but we haven't heard at least me, I don't have enough arguments why it's not ten years, why it's maybe three or even one, it means one narrow deadline or why it's five years. And if you think it's a normal phenomenon that medical examinations are advertised in action, we may soon see when this law is introduced on the Black Egg that we have one action for a medical examination. I support here my colleague and Sanader and Djujic, who have previously compared the weapons, means as a dangerous means to the car, so in this direction I would suggest that the medical examination be identified somehow with this medical examination which is done by the owners like those who have a driver's license and we have heard the arguments that we have a lack of a doctor, so I suggest that gun owners and those who possess a driver's license are made one merger of the procedure and that these medical examinations are carried out in the same procedure because I think we would get one synergy and savings. Here, I'm glad that a colleague who at the same time got a hunting license to tell me that it's working on it, and that's why I believe this whole debate is useful and I know it's been a long time and we may be bored but I believe that we're finally going to get the results of all of this, that it's not just a debate for debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26949	Thank you. Your debate has sparked two replicas, a respected representative of Pernar and Klaric. First honorary representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26950	Here's what I have to say is that I agree with my HDZ colleague and that the biggest problem with illegal weapons is that you can't ban someone from owning it. You'll put the law as if it's forbidden but people still own it, and the penalties I say again that I'm going back to a legal system that doesn't work, are such that even if you have it you won't go to jail safely. And on the other hand, if you want to legally own a weapon, you have to be a member of some shooting club. So if you're not a member of a shooting club or if you don't pay your membership fee a year 500 kuna, you can't actually, or a hunting society, you can't have a weapon. Why only members of hunting and sports societies can have weapons, or be held by people who are otherwise not interested in that membership in those associations, but only join them for that reason, because otherwise they could not have a license for weapons. And then what happens? From these, it's just to say it's cheaper to have an illegal weapon. The police don't come to your attention, you don't have to pay anyone a membership fee, you don't have to say that to worry about these administrative matters. So, if the law were to simplify, it means that we don't have to be the ones who want to have weapons for members of sports and hunting societies, I believe that there should be more legal weapons, and in my opinion the state should allow or legalize the weapons that people of the war have, rather than that. And not to persecute them if they didn't do anything wrong to anyone. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26951	Thank you. She has a desire for an answer, distinguished representative Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26952	Here I thank my colleagues for agreeing, and I believe that after a while we will hear concrete arguments when a colleague agrees that it will be a little more precise, that we will hear some suggestions, let's say for these ideas of yours specifically that we can introduce into the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26953	Thank you. He is now a replica of the respected representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26954	Here, Vice President, I'll be less than two minutes. A little correction in the law is that I've been welcoming 21 years for let's say normal citizens, and 18 years is if he passed a hunting exam like you, so that's okay. But the point is, and that's why I answered the line when the question is being raised restrictively or unrestrainedly. What happens when you do something restrictively increases the possibility of something being illegal or illegal. And that's what you should be afraid of. I think that this law should ultimately go in this direction that as many as we already own, as there are so many weapons in Croatia that as many of these weapons are legally controlled, and that those who legally want to possess it are allowed to have it and that the institutions of the MUP, political administrations have records that they know where that weapon is, how it is used, where it is supplied with ammunition, what amount of ammunition there is and that there is control in that part, and that this illegal part that is essentially the only problem and it should definitely be addressed and referred to by the European Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26955	Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26956	I thank my colleague and I would like to invite the promoter, and I think that you and I can also help them get to know all those hunters who have no weapons and who are under 18 and who are really convinced that maybe we can have a wider discussion or some survey among them that it really takes those under 18 who are members of the hunting societies to own their weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26957	And for the individual debate, the distinguished Ante Sanader appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the point of the law. It should certainly be some kind of improvement. This law is in line with European directives and we Croatian hunters expected that we would now be in line with Europe and experience in Europe what it looks like and how it works with weapons in Europe. So hunting alliances and people tried to translate... German because the Hunting Union is 125 years old and we built our alliance on the traditions of Austro-Hungarian, the whole culture of hunting that exists in Croatia and which is even with us, we dare say, and that is what the representatives of the world organization said with these European most famous alliances. One of these must be the German Hunting Union, so here we are to see the spirit of the law, because here we have been told what is the meaning of the spirit of this law. If the meaning of the spirit of the law is that communist mental system, so that we are afraid because in communism there were Croats who were very dangerous because they always destroyed Yugoslavia and they were dangerous. And if they still had guns, then they were extremely dangerous. And so it was particularly dangerous for the Croats to give weapons. And now if we're thinking like that like that mental circuit, then we should ban everyone from having guns, taking away hunters and all because it's very dangerous. But here's what the Germans say, look at the German law of Article 13 of the German Law: "For hunters who own a hunting card," means every hunter who has a hunting card under the Federal Hunting Law does not check whether they meet the conditions." So, “when going to buy weapons, the holder of a valid identity card within the meaning of this law, according to the Federal Hunting Law, does not need permission to obtain other weapons. Hunters are allowed to carry guns without permission." What we are discussing here – years of age – means this same Article 13 paragraph 8 says: "persons trained for hunting" means those who are trained for hunting "a laugh during education without permission to obtain, possess and carry a hunting weapon if they have completed 14 years of life". We also mentioned 21, 18 that it was dangerous. "And if her guardian is a parent and head of education for a certificate of authority signed by both of them, they have shown their consent to this. A person trained for hunting must wear a certificate of authorisation during education’, that is, for those young people, they must carry a certificate of authorisation. That's what the German laws say. Now we can go back to communism and ban everything and declare everyone who has guns and who thinks they would have guns with very dangerous types and punish it restrictively. But I am sorry that we live in a democratic Croatia that is a member of the European Union and in which we should certainly simplify things if hunters who have a 125-year tradition in Croatia, if they have a hunting organisation with 70,000 members, if there are no excesses, if all the conditions are strictly prescribed so should also be respected. So here, I'm only going to name a few because we've been discussing everything for too long, but just some of them who are adamant. Article 12(5) "Distorted family relations". What are disturbed family relationships? If the husband and wife are separated, then each divorced person has a disturbed family relationship he shouldn't have a weapon. Article 13 persons who have weapons. What about the cops and the soldiers? Some cop who's had a gun his whole life is our best interest in keeping that weapon? He's a preventative savior on the street and I think those people who've had guns all their lives are now returning to the same regulations. Do they have to prove that they're life-threatening or I don't know what? We don't have regular armies anymore, we don't have any training. Here's colleague Pernar talking about Switzerland where every citizen who finishes training gets a gift weapon. We no longer have that, we have 20 thousand or how many soldiers in Croatia are professional and in the event of any aggression on Croatia and we live here in the environment, we see where our neighbors are constantly clinking with guns, where our neighbours are armed. Why can't that cop keep that gun and have it legally and wear it as a right to carry that gun? Or the soldier who's had it his whole life. Well, they're potentially a major security guard for me in Croatia to take that away from them. It's been said so much about health skills, and I'm also a supporter of it, I've spoken through replicas, I'm not going to talk about it any further. You put nice and congratulating this into the law that the primary protection doctor is obliged to report it, and now the dissatisfaction that he didn't talk about. But this is important, Article 18. ‘The existence of specific conditions, the existence of technical knowledge’. So, for category B's hunting weapon, it's by convincing the competent authority to confirm that he passed the hunting test. What does that mean, the competent authority, now we can ask, and then we can interpret by sublegal acts what the competent authority is. I suggest that it be "Convincing, a hunting card with a stamp issued by the Croatian Hunting Union", and that's all settled, it's a competent body. The sports weapons of category B are "confirmed by a roof organisation which keeps records of its members", according to the law. So what is a roof organization, what are we afraid to write? In the debates, we must not mention because the law can be changed, so how will we change the name? But this organization of the Red Cross, the Mountain Service and all other organizations are listed here. We know which is the roof organization, the Croatian shooting alliance. Why are we afraid to put that in law? It's definitely something to put into the law. In addition, the following paragraph is added: ‘For Class B weapons supplied for personal security purposes, a certificate of competence for the possession and management and use of weapons issued by the competent authority.’ Which competent authority? And even more dangerous, "or an institution and another legal person who has the approval of the Ministry of the Interior", that means in private hands that some private individuals are now conducting training. There has been a lot of talk about it, and I support absolutely this extension of the validity of the Armed List, and Article 24 should necessarily be expelled that "the competent body will extend the Armed List with this solution". Okay, first issue of the permit logically, let the weapon be examined, let the stamps and everything else be examined, but the extension of the gun list has no reason to examine the code, number, stamp and everything else on the weapon. I've already said this about the European armed pass. There is no reason that the European armed pass in Croatia has five years of duration and that there is unlimited duration everywhere in Europe. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 days from the change of address you need to contact urgently. I suggest that it be 15 days. And also this 60 days when a man dies and a relative has to do it within 60 days, to place it for some three, four months because the family is shocked and the condition in which the family is located has no reason to force it because they certainly won't do any troublesome crime. Here I think that these are the arguments that are in Europe and all the European countries that have already been set up for us, that there is no reason why we in our law do not coordinate that and what many have said here and that I absolutely support and agree that the problem is illegal weapons and not legal weapons. People who have a license, who are registered, are certainly not a problem for society or a danger to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26959	Thank you. Your exposure prompted some replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26960	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's to my infidelity, and this time I agree with a colleague from HDZ. I can even dare say that he would sign his words, especially as he spoke of soldiers. And don't forget one thing after all, why people keep illegal weapons. So you're aware that the reason why we had a lot of problems in the war was because we were disarmed and the man was thinking, see this HDZ government is puppetically controlled from the outside, sees weapons of Croatian donations, sends out the country, the Americans come in and tell you what those manpads, those arrows are going to tell you about the shooting of helicopters and planes on a low flight. So Croatia itself is destroying its own weapons. See what kind of air force we have and the man wonders so wait these guys disarm us, so what if there comes a war with which I will defend myself and the fear of people is justified and for that reason I think I should allow all war veterans who don't mean mentally ill, violent, aggressive, or do a threat to society around them, to legalize their weapons from war even if it was working, I think of a long weapon, of course I remember a Serb in Banja Luka had a tank in the garage, that would not be legalized, but that it should, as I say, allow the legalisation of weapons and long but there should be a legal system that punishes illegal weapons. And you HDZ gentlemen can't do that and that's the whole problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26961	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Ante Sanader will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26962	Dear colleague, it's a shame that you're repeating this in parallel, but here we are right now, so I have to react. This government is not puppetary, this government has been elected in this House with more than 90 votes and HDZ has won the elections absolutely with the largest number of mandates and I do not know who is filling your head and whose spokeswoman but certainly not someone who wants good for Croatia, because you must accept what the Croatian people chose even if you did not like it or your employers, but the Croatian people chose it – respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26963	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26964	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Sanader, from your presentation, I've concluded that regarding Article 13, you're actually in favour of it, and I don't think I even personally object to any former soldier or policeman being able to keep a weapon. But it's not clear to me now that I'm talking about Article 13 and the directive, if you're in favour of erasing these provisions at all, means that the legitimate reason for the supply of weapons for personal safety means that the person who proves her personal safety is compromised. So all of what is proposed by this bill to delete it simply so that there is no such provision, but that every person who meets the general conditions that are not, you said that even under general conditions, some of them are controversial to you. But let's say we get rid of those disputed ones, does that mean that any person who asks for a weapon could get it if it meets the general conditions? So, by your understanding, you don't need this evidence to endanger personal security at all. I don't get it. In that sense, if that's the case, then we really go to one liberalisation so that every man can get a weapon regardless of the reasons he needs. And then it occurred to me, here's a colleague of Pernar's earlier mention of the performance. It could happen that someone who knows that his property will be carried out on purpose, and colleague Pernar said it was the last line of defense that I realized, that they wouldn't really come into a situation so that someone wouldn't defend their home in this way, so that he could get a weapon. In that sense, I say I must be careful, and this formulation is not particularly fortunate for the commission that it is doing, but I believe that some rules must be tied to when we talk about the personal security of citizens. So, not in the sense of hunting, shooting and all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26965	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Ante Sander.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26966	Thank you. ... Are we afraid of people who have guns legally or aren't afraid? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not afraid of people who have, who have passed as prescribed in the law, you know that they got, passed the prescribed exams, so they can handle those weapons and they got permission for that weapon. You have professions like I don't know someone who works in the woods, someone who lives alone, someone who guards the guard, a choban. Thank God there's no more shepherds, we destroyed it. But someone who's a shepherd, a shepherd keeps sheep somewhere or someone or lives, works in the woods alone, so why should he lay down to handle guns? If he's not troublesome, if he doesn't have any crimes, then there's no reason why he doesn't have a weapon. We don't need to be afraid of that. And what you're saying is the last line of defense is home, so somebody's gonna defend their own, they're not gonna get a gun license because it's got a purpose, but it can use two gas bottles to put it there and when it's done, it threatens everyone and I don't know everything in the air. So it's not a weapon that's gonna use him because he's got a purpose. Most of the time, I'm a supporter of the fact that everyone has no problem with the law, who has obligations, exams they must have to have in order to handle weapons and to know the dangers of weapons that they can get a license and especially soldiers and especially police officers. Because I'm saying, Croatia that doesn't currently have a regular army except for a professional army that's a small number, so we have to be, why should people be afraid, why not, have legal weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26967	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, the final five minutes, the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Perhaps in the history of parliamentary practice it is very rare that such a strange debate occurs, that is that on the government's proposal, the three largest club representatives of which are two and the ruling, one opposition suggests that they go to regular procedure after having already voted twice in an emergency procedure. But on the other hand, it is a very rare practice that one, one ministry, when changing three governments, sends the same proposal to the Parliament, that is, to draft the same law. Three sets of governments make three proposals, the same bill, to send it to the Parliament and then to the clubs that made that government or make that government propose to return to emergency procedures, i.e. regular procedures. So obviously, the situation is more complex. My suggestion is to my colleagues from the MUP. Or there are very important reasons why you insist on these solutions, so expose them because you didn't expose them. So either argue and make sure that you are right or in the process of the draft law in the government to coordinate something better in a way that you have a wider discussion with the public so that you do not again and for the next second reading, we get the same solutions and then try to get them back into the regular procedure. So, I suggest that a thematic session of the committee, the parent committee in the Assembly, is being established before the final proposal was sent to the Council, in which we would try to explain our views for which you have today received a unique criticism of some solutions. But that's not the first time, so my colleague Sanader had a very similar discussion in the fifth month. I don't know, so I'm not going to declare plagiarism because you're yourself. But it would have been a taste of your discussion in the fifth month or sixth when it was. So obviously these things aren't random. What is important is a political decision. If we want a more restrictive law, a more liberal law, or if we want it to stay the way it is. When you make that political decision, and it is the Government that can make it, then send such a proposal to the Parliament, but then ensure to the representatives clubs at least those who support the government that a new debate on whether or not we will change the direction of the law does not open. That's what we as an opposition party expect from the government, so it doesn't bring us into this situation anymore that we're getting too much of an agreement on something that nobody agrees with the government right now. That would be a short appeal for the next second reading of this law in the near parliamentary past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26969	Thank you. The replica of the respected representative Sasa Djuic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, you gave a good résumé of events related to this law, but I must say that you scared me because now that you've started saying that this was, so it was, so that my colleague Sanader had a similar debate in the fifth month, I was watching it today, I was scared now, so I guess the government won't fall down again so that the Parliament will disband, so let's start over with this. ... Well, fellow Bull, I don't know, we'll see. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Anyway, that's all I wanted to do to distract you from my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26971	Thank you very much. I don't think the government's going down. And another interesting thing that I can add personally to what my colleague Bauk said, which is that we've been discussing for five hours, and we all agree on the same thing. Did it really take us five hours, and we all get along all the time? All right. Anyway, so we're gonna finish up and I'd like to conclude this debate. We'll vote of course when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we'll start working normally at 9.30 a.m. on what order is in the program. Therefore, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, with the subsequent report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Here, thank you very much. SESSION INTERNED IN 19.45 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26972	The second is the final proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.55. The proposer of the acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The HDZ Representatives' Club and MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists have proposed to the Assembly the next conclusion. Here's a representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26973	I thank the Honorable Mr. President, the requirements of the HDZ Club and the Club of Representatives of MOST have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and should be postponed. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament set out the second sentence: ‘Extremely, if the home working body of the Constitutional Committee or the Legislative Committee proposes that in the law referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article the debate in the first reading may be held in the first reading of the Assembly to carry out the debate in the first reading.’ Therefore, the authorising officer may not be a representative club to be held in the first reading but only the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament referred to in Article 206(2). Rules of Procedure. Since neither this specialised body submitted such a request by the SDP representative club in accordance with the Rules of Procedure nor the practice of the Croatian Parliament from 2007 to 2011, it proposed that in the laws in question, P.Z. 54th, 55th and 59th debate in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26974	Thank you. Representative Grbin, Article 206 refers to the definition of the agenda, so... I understand everything also if you look at the practice of the Croatian Parliament where you were asked in the same way when President Luka Bebić chaired and was the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of SDP, HNS and HSU. [[You can't hear it, you can't hear it.]] So, the club of representatives, but asked for MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26975	.../Intruder Grbin: Yes, but you are in accordance with Article 236. The Rules of Procedure responded to my injury and in accordance with Article 236(1). I hereby declare that in connection with this breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will refer to the Constitutional Committee a play to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26976	I'll take it. Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26977	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, we are at the club about this dilemma Mr. Peđa Grbin has now also been thinking about and we have looked at the practice of the Croatian Parliament over the past few years and we have seen that the third reading can be done after the Croatian Parliament conducts the debate in the first and second readings and then goes to the third reading. That's one thing. The second thing, third reading does not stand according to what the SDP Club said because there are no amendments to the proposed law, and when it comes to third reading, it is explained by the fact that so many amendments were proposed in the debate to significantly amend the law and is therefore referred to in the third reading. Article 206 to which the SDP Club is called and Mr Grbin is right before the point of the draft law relating to harmonisation with the EU is included, so that the return of the law to the ordinary procedure is indeed the right of the parliamentary committees and the proposing. In that case, clubs have no right and there's a Mr. Grbin right, but I'm saying it before the point gets into the agenda. When the point is discussed, then we can no longer go from emergency procedure to third reading, and so on, in this case, there is no specific amendment that would then justify third reading. Therefore, the same proposal that HDZ also sent from MOST colleagues took place in 2011 on the SDP Club proposal and referred to the Law on supply, a pardon for the Public Procurement Act, which was also P.Z. In this regard, therefore, by respecting these reasons stated by the SDP club, we remained in the position to argue that we had checked the debate in the first reading and that we would refer the law to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26978	If a representative of the coat of arms had called for the number of amendments, I would have responded equally. A representative of the coat of arms will exercise his right. As far as the conclusion is concerned, I will read the proposal next. 1. On the proposal for a law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens with a final draft law, P.Z.E. No. The 55th debate was held in the first reading. 1. All objections and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Does the proposaler's representative want to show himself about the proposed conclusion? Yeah. Lidija Pelivan Stipetic, State Secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26979	Well, here's only in the name of the promoter we accept the view that the law goes into another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26980	Thank you. Please get involved and let's vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 117 for, 4 abstentions and no votes against the conclusion reached in the text of the motion. Since we have reached the proposed conclusion, it is essential to vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the SDP club, which proposes to refer the law to the third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26981	We'd move on to the next point. I suggest we unite the next two points. So, I suggest we unify - the final proposal of the Law on the acquisition of registration of weapons of citizens, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 55; - Final proposal of the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 54; Do you agree to unite this debate? I see that mostly, everyone's getting positive, so we agree. Okay. Thanks for the compliment. Okay. So we're going to unite the discussion of these two laws. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204, 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material is delivered in boxes, the contributions to the bill are not multiplied but are found on the Croatian Assembly website. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted the proposal by the Proposer on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda for these legislative proposals to be discussed under an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate on both laws was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. As far as I can see, the secretary of state will do so in the MUP, Mrs. Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26982	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, the proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens Excuse me. [[A little louder, please.]] The proposal for a Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, with certain improvements, regulates only part of the matter from the applicable Arms Act, which refers to the procedure for the purchase and registration of arms supplied by citizens for civil use, and the way in which they are handled by these weapons and ammunition. Part of the matter of the applicable Arms Act relating to arms activities shall be regulated by the proposal of the Explosive Substances Act, and the supervision of the production and transport of weapons referred to in the adoption procedure together with the proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens. The relevant Arms Act has adopted the provisions of the Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons, so that the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons is not adopted for the purpose of the obligation to take over the provisions of the Directive but primarily for the regulation of matter under the applicable Law on Weapons through two new laws. One of the papers adopted by the proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens is the definition of the justification of the reason for the supply of weapons for personal safety. According to the draft law, the legitimate reason for the supply of personal security is that there is a person who demonstrates that its personal security is compromised or could be endangered to such an extent that it needs arms for its insurance, and that the activities and measures of the security institutions or other measures could not provide sufficient protection. As evidence that her personal safety is compromised or could be compromised to such an extent, that she needs weapons for her insurance, the person must indicate the specific reports of attacks or threats reported by the police and recorded in police records. This aims to reduce the number of citizens who acquire weapons for personal safety because the Republic of Croatia as a rule of law has mechanisms to protect every citizen. In order to obtain weapons supplied by citizens for hunting or sports shooting, it is not necessary to prove the justification of the reasons for the purchase but to attach sufficient documents to show that a person is engaged in hunting or sports shooting. The proposed law seeks to simplify and speed up the procedure in the event of a request to obtain additional quantities of weapons being submitted by a person who already has a valid arms list. In that case, it will be checked whether a person in criminal or criminal records is being conducted and whether a criminal or criminal offence or a criminal offence which would be an obstacle to the possession of a weapon, but who will not be required to collect additional information from the police on the person because the previous purchase of the weapon has already been carried out for him. This will avoid unnecessary administration and contribute to the economics of the procedure, since the first requirement for the supply of weapons has checked all the necessary conditions for supply. And in the event of a subsequent initiation of a misdemeanor or criminal proceedings against the owner of a weapon that makes it an obstacle to the possession of a weapon, the process of confiscation of a weapon will be carried out. According to the proposal of this law, weapons temporarily seized in administrative proceedings as a criminal or criminal offence has been brought against the owner of the weapon, the owner will have to sell or donate only after the power of decision taken in a criminal or criminal proceedings in which he is convicted of criminal offences and offences. In this way, it will avoid the situation so far that, after the power of a solution to the confiscation of the weapons brought into the administrative procedure, the owner will be deprived of the weapons as his property and, later, in a legally concluded criminal or criminal proceedings, of the criminal offence or of the offence for which the proceedings have been conducted against him. One of the newspapers on the proposal of this law is that citizens with weapons registered for hunting or sports are allowed to fill themselves with ammunition for their own purposes and to obtain ammunition components on the basis of a valid weapons list registered for hunting or sports purposes. Furthermore, the bill provides more precise conditions under which sports shooting organisations can borrow weapons to their members. Sports shooting organisations can thus lend arms to their members, regardless of which they do not have the authority to obtain weapons or weapons, but are obliged to notify the competent police department before borrowing the weapons or the station to verify that a member of the sports shooting organisation meets the general conditions that a person must fulfil for the possession of a weapon. If it is established that a member of a sports shooting organisation does not meet those conditions, a sports shooting organisation shall not lend him arms. This will avoid the situation that a sports shooter is recorded if he is registered as a criminal or criminal offender who poses an obstacle to weapons possession, and a sports shooting organisation lends him weapons because there is no knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26983	Thank you very much. You can talk about explosive substances right now because we said we'd unite the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26984	Thank you. Proposal for a Law on Explosive Substances and Production and Transport of Weapons. This law regulates the areas of production, transport, use and transport of explosive substances, as well as the production, transport and transport of weapons. These areas are now governed by three laws, the Law on Explosive Substances, the Law on Weapons, and the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances. In order to amend and supplement the Directive on the placing on the market of explosive substances for economic use, it is necessary to amend this legislation in order to comply with that Directive. The deadline for the transposition of this Directive was 20 April 2016. However, on the basis of the supervision of the implementation of the rules currently in force which regulate those areas, it is concluded that, in addition to the need to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation, it is necessary to develop or improve regulations and to facilitate economic activities related to those areas. It also concluded that some parts of the area are not at all regulated or incompletely arranged, which also calls for intervention in those regulations. Furthermore, the supervision of the implementation of those regulations as well as the communication with the responsible persons of companies dealing with economic activities governed by those regulations has been concluded that the regulation of those areas would, instead of so far, make it much easier for three companies to operate, but would also ensure a much better control of explosive substances of arms, and unification in one law on both fair and related, and the complexity of the area of production and transport of weapons and explosive substances. The following four basic reasons for the adoption of this law may be provided. The first reason is to bring the Republic of Croatia's rules into line with the new EU directive on the placing of explosive substances on the market. The second reason is to edit areas that are not fully regulated as such. Manufacture of weapons of category A. Thirdly, the unification into one law of the now applicable Law on Explosive Substances, part of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances and parts of the Law on Weapons relating to the activities of companies in the transport and transport of weapons. Ensuring more complete control of weapons and explosive substances is the fourth reason to achieve better regulation of the area of production and transport of explosive substances. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26985	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Josip Krizanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26986	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned a reasonable reason for the supply of weapons. I'd rather we didn't have to talk about it at all. Justified reasons for the supply of weapons, therefore, I would prefer that we do not have to discuss the reason in general, however, and it would be best if there were no assumptions in the Croatian state at all for this reason. However, as long as we have to talk, I would very much like to hear from you in the ministry whether we have certain studies or analyses of the perpetrators of the crime or of the offenders involved in the firearms that were on the record, so those who are illegals and those who have the rights of the perpetrator of the crime. Maybe that's why some time... You understand what I'm talking about? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So maybe that's why sometimes it's better to soften the law and loosen the conditions and the reasons for the supply of weapons to the owners and then keep them under surveillance. A much worse option is the rigid law that has resulted in the illegal arming of the public. Of course, in this case, corrective measures should be extremely strict and abuse of the holding of weapons and the committing of criminal offences should be rigorous and drastic. So once again, I ask you to answer me if we have inside the Ministry that record so that we can discuss as much as possible in these justified reasons for the supply of weapons as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26987	Thank you very much. Answer the esteemed secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26988	So, from the records, it turns out that out of the crimes committed, or crimes committed by the use of firearms, about 80% were committed by illegal weapons and 20% by legal weapons. But I would also like to point out that these amendments of the law don't really change the conditions, so the justifiable reason is that so far there has to be a reason for the supply of self-defense weapons. The newspaper in this article is merely to draw closer to defining what is the just cause. So the justifiable reason for equating the practice of approval and as some kind of tool to the commission which decides whether there is a legitimate reason or not. Because a valid reason for you can be one, for me can be another. The intensity was to sort out how to generally assess whether there was a valid reason or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26989	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26990	Dear Vice President, I think that the only objective of this law is its unwarranted objective because it was brought only for one reason to disarm the Croatian people who justifiably armed in 91st year for a threat. So they've all legalized that weapon now, and now they'd have to hand over that weapon to someone. I personally bought a pump for 1,500 marks at that time to defend myself against those who illegally had weapons, which they got from JNA. And another thing about destroying collective weapons or blinding would lead to that weapon losing its value both historically and culturally and... the other. Also, we are witnessing that the police in practice never bring weapons to anyone who reports that he is in danger or that he is in real danger or that he is not in any way already taking away weapons and the person who is in danger and the person who threatens him. So I think this whole law would need to be passed once again by experts who are very much in our Croatia who will bring real predisposition to this law at all. And everything that comes to us from the EU doesn't have to be applied to us so literally given our environment. ... They're not looking, then there's no need. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26991	Thank you. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we'd go to clubs. I'm going to ask earlier if the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it. No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, will be spoken by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26992	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to continue this debate, which is kind of being tied up to this previous one. Namely, it has to do with the EU, and it is about obtaining weapons registration, ammunition and its use. First of all, I want to say that I have neither weapons nor want to have weapons and that I generally support any meaningful disarmament, any intention of making weapons as small as possible and the people as safe as possible. However, I repeat the word comprehensively, and here it seems to be about selective disarmament. Because if we hand over weapons like Agent Culej said, there is still someone who only has a question of who they are and whether they are well-intentioned to Croatian citizens. And we see in the very head of this law that he comes from the EU, that this law is not made in Croatia, but that he actually came from outside and we have to wonder what the real intentions of this law are. Because when we go to read the bill we see such restrictive measures, such restrictions on weapons possession, that at some point I was afraid that I wouldn't know I'd have to hand over the cutlery because under this law I might have to answer for the attempted terrorism. Because we here read that I don't even know about sports people, like sports shootings, biathlons, or people who do collection perhaps by collecting some museum exhibits come in danger of being punished and very rigorous as people with dangerous intentions. Moreover, people who possess weapons are forced to pay very expensive and unnecessary costs, and it is concluded that the ultimate objective of this law is to give people weapons at all costs. So what's suspicious about it? It's suspicious that when we looked a little through history the request to surrender the weapon came exclusively from dictators who had bad intentions. The call to hand over weapons usually meant the introduction to dictatorship and, frankly, to genocide. In 1929, the weapons had to be handed over to the citizens of the Soviet Union. In 1935, the weapons had to be handed over to the citizens of Nazi Germany. Chinese during Mao Ce-tung, citizens of the Ottoman Empire. What were the intentions of those who proposed such laws. We saw them and we know them. There was therefore the suppression of democracy and millions and millions of dead people. If you don't believe historical examples from other countries, it's enough to remember in 1991 when Croatian weapons of territorial defense were taken away as if there were no war, and it was taken away just to start a war. So you're handing over weapons to be peace, and that's what those who wanted to cause war did. And those who were in '91. years young, and there are those here in this assembly remember how many volunteers who wanted to defend Croatia like Mr. Culej were desperately trying to get at least one hunting rifle, but they had nowhere to get it. And how helpful it would be if Croatian citizens had at least a few weapons. But be careful, mentally sound citizens and well-intentioned citizens if they had at least a few weapons, it would probably have been less painful for Croatia and the defense would have been as effective and faster. So, apparently this confiscation of weapons will protect us citizens from some hidden danger, I don't know from terrorism. But you tell me if a terrorist is afraid of me when I have a weapon or if I don't have one. Do I encourage him by handing over a weapon or am I basically refusing to attack him? Can I be absolutely sure of someone's intentions? Do you feel safer when there is a guard on the door, or do you think it needs to be removed, because there may be weapons? What is the morale of the people without weapons? Do these people feel braver with more self - respect or feel more insecure, intimidated. Who can stop it? It's enough, if people don't have guns, nobody who can stop some terrorist attack tomorrow, some threat, an occupation, anything? It says here in the bill that I have to prove that I was personally threatened. I'll take it now, you've got that newspaper I see you're reading because you don't want to hear what others are saying and open the paper and read what's in the paper. A terrorist attack in Berlin, a terrorist attack in Istanbul, a terrorist attack in Paris, threats from Serbia, we'll kill Croats I don't know, etc. Is this a threat to me personally, or must I not know if I write I threaten Branimir Bunjac and let him defend himself? So that's one side, one medal of this arms law that I would trust, I repeat once again, that it was created in this House and that a public debate was held. And what law was not under the urgent procedure why no public debate was conducted? Then you might as well accept it. But this kind of click in my head, I wonder if Croatia has this bill, if there is some hidden intention, is there, say, in these amendments to the law, we can even see that some parts of the Croatian Constitution are being violated, let's say, the confiscation of weapons without compensation. What right? This Regulation shall enter The constitution has it all under your clubs, private property is inalienable. Who has the right to confiscate someone's private property, not to pay him any compensation, for example.? Therefore, I think that such a bill is not good in some way, that it has been adopted in haste, that there has not been enough concern for all aspects that arise from this law, that there has been no public debate and for this reason I believe that this law should be seriously improved in cooperation with those who are going to be concerned, and these are primarily Croatian citizens. That would be a short one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26993	To avoid as you yourself said a click in your head we also have an official suggestion that this law goes into two readings. Hence, it is likely that some of the colleagues who will discuss this in this regard will also speak so that there is a written proposal to go in two readings. ... Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26994	So, Mr. Vice President, you have now explained to your colleagues that there is an official suggestion that the law goes into two readings. According to Article 206. Rules of Procedure, and both laws are P.Z.E. that I can propose this by the Committee on the Constitution, so the club cannot suggest that an emergency procedure under Article 206 be removed from this law, so it might be a good idea to explain that we do not have a problem voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26995	I agree, but there is a plenary session, and there is a plenary session to actually express the opinions of different clubs and individuals on some law. And it is likely that the discussion will bring out then the smartest conclusion, whether to go to one reading urgently as suggested, or perhaps it is better to go in two readings and introduce changes that will be suggested and that will obviously come. Okay, well, I can think that I can do that, except for the board, and the parliamentary representatives can show it in their discussion. I know it's actually a committee that should propose, but maybe eventually the board and propose on the basis of the debate that's going to develop today. But let's go to the replicas, after all, to the presentation of colleagues of Bunjca, there are more replicas. He is a well-respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26996	A fellow Bunjac with one part of your debate can agree and only in the part where you were looking for exactly what was just before and Vice President of the Parliament said that this law would be good to implement through two readings and removed this urgency from him. It was your introduction to the debate in this speech that showed the real situation of thinking about a law like this. You seem to have told me that you don't own weapons and that in that part you don't understand and that you're about to take that weapon away to have as few weapons as possible. A large number of us here, among other things, have owned it for over 30 years, have had the honour of being a member of the Association's many mandates that numbered over a hundred members who all owned weapons. So this is one complex topic to discuss, but it is your speech and your debate on this subject that shows that many people who are discussing this issue and are taking it as a right are not sufficiently addressed to the problem they're talking about. And for this very reason it is good and it will be good if the urgency of this law is removed, the arguments of all those groups, the institutions of this country that can call it that, and these are among other things the Croatian Hunting Union and the Croatian Shooting Union and the people who deal with this problem, and which is one of the basic funds I will be free to say so for work. So weapons are not necessarily evil, weapons, and when we discuss the European directive here, it is also going in this direction to impose greater weight on that illegal part of weapons possession rather than on those weapons that are legal. And this very information about how many crimes or abuses were minor compared to everything that's going on with something that's illegal. The very tendency of this law should also go in the direction that it is illegally contained and that in that part of the law, it is strict and not the part where it is legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26997	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26998	Thank you. Dear counterpart Klaric that in fact you are right, this law should be handled with caution, we should still agree not only here in the Assembly but also the general public, and what I said in my opening statement, so what you have now said is that the issue of weapons should actually be addressed comprehensively because this remains the impression that I repeat healthy and well-meaning people disarm, so those who possess legal weapons and on the other hand do not solve the problem of those who have evil intentions and who actually own weapons illegally. I've seen some statistics and I've been amazed that there may be up to 500 thousand illegal weapons in Croatia, and now here we are in a situation that needs to be taken, I don't know the Guns of the Shooting Union, I don't know the Biathlons, here we have paintball league. So as far as I could see from the amendments to this law as soon as it's a weapon, as soon as that trigger mechanism is on some device, it automatically passes into a dangerous weapon and must be taken away. So in fact, it seems to me that this is about some awkwardness that I believe in ultimately this House of the High should be done before the final adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u26999	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27000	Dear Vice President, my colleague Bunjac, except for a couple of parolees you pulled from, I don't know where I can read from this law about some kind of disarmament of citizens. I don't know what you pulled it from, where you saw it. You were talking about some kind of ex post or extra costs imposed on gun collectors. I would ask you what these are new costs that do not exist now and which are forced by this law to say specifically not to talk about paroles of disarmament of Croatia, that there are some hidden intentions. In which exact article of this law imposes some new monetary obligations on those who possess weapons. And you also said, so you haven't read this law at all, and what he's proposing is that this law is counter-constitutional because it plans to take away people's weapons without giving them any compensation and it's against the constitution because people are taking away their property. So did you read what it says here? This proposal for a law makes it more clear that, without the right to compensation, the confiscation of weapons established in the registration procedure has not been examined and marked in accordance with the regulations or cannot be proved to be of origin. It's an illegal weapon from a fellow Bunyan. Better inform yourself, do not engage in steam, make concrete proposals, turn to these articles of the law that you consider not good and do not talk about some kind of disarmament of Croatia, that someone intends to disarm our citizens and hide some hidden intentions behind this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27001	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27002	Thank you very much, esteemed representative of the bush. I don't know, I have to ask you who you're arguing with? But the law is in my hands, here if you don't see it all written out by my remarks and remarks of experts. So you think I fell off Mars in this House and now what I'm thinking is I'm saying, I don't care if it's a debate or not, which is the point of the agenda or not. I'll show you, we'll put the amendment to that part where private property is taken away, which clearly shows this article of the law that you proposed even though you didn't propose it and you act smart as if it were. Among other things, it says here that one who guards the weapon must put watch out for the doorway to the room in which the weapon is located. Do you know how much the door costs? 20 thousand kuna with an installation. Well, normally, if someone has a gun I don't know is worth two, three thousand kunas, and they have to put a 20 grand door in that gun, they'd just rather hand it over than spend it. So who's got that kind of money today? And you're saying that then this law is not restrictive. I don't know, you probably didn't read the law. You mean by suggesting you know everything about him. And you don't know, I'm telling you. Why did he send me an e-mail today from the Croatian Hunting Union? What's this about? When you've worked it all out in detail that there are no objections, say there are 70,000 hunters in Croatia. Now tell them in person that they don't know the same thing as you do to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27003	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27004	Dear President, this is how you fellow Bunjac as a pacifist rightly and you do not have to have weapons, not your neighbor, not your colleague, not Pernar, no one else, but there is someone awake who will have them and he will also be in charge of your safety. Once upon a time in our Croatia and the former Yugoslavia to get a gun, the Croat had to have five signatures from Radeta, Manet, and I don't know who else to get some hunting rifle on one barrel not on two, don't God give me that he could go hunting. Now that our citizens are armed, someone in a series of different laws and conditions that he proposes would take that same thing away from them through that doorway or other ways. And I'd ask from this place, there used to be a Minister Shime Lucin who used to step on 7000-euro dry rifles there only crushed them for television cameras, for copies. While we are witnessing that in the service of weapons sometimes beautiful specimens that are expensive know the exception, put on the sidelines and simply evaporate, they disappear. It destroys the lesser weapon, the inappropriate one that is not a visual specimen, and it is shown to the public. This weapon that's nicer, better, better quality and more expensive goes through some other channels, and in this I'm looking for an example and I'm showing it here, I've already repeatedly shown that there are 150 missing pieces of weapons in the Varazdin Police Department. It's still an unconfirmed exact number. I've said it more than once here and Minister Ranko Ostojić, that was two years ago. Imagine the investigation is still under way. They haven't figured out where 100, 150, 200 even went missing, who knows how many pieces of weaponry. Where's that weapon? With what purpose? Who will use that weapon and we, Ranko Ostojić, sits there every other, third day and there is no one to ask him. Will our current Minister Orepic ask him, or will he continue his paths or the paths of Sima Lucin? I'd ask that all of us here where the weapons from the Varazdin Police Department ended. First and last time I'm gonna do it here again, I'm not gonna do it again, I'm gonna move on to my Uncle's colleague, let him deal with it, it's his county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27005	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27006	Thank you. I'm not going to replicate much to you since I don't want to discuss Mr. Ostojić, but what I'm saying is, I agree that I'm a pacifist, I know how to handle it with a lot of guns, but I don't want him. And I agree with this idea that you said, so guns should have mentally healthy people, I don't mind. I think it's still such a time of civilization, it's simply a matter of having a weapon to protect the citizens. The dangers are as they are and on that side, so the Arms Act is as necessary as only weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27007	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27008	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bunjac. So, in your debate, you went to the beginning of the Homeland War. Of course, here's a colleague, Culey, like he said, and my late uncle bought me a winchester 357 so he could go to war as a student. I didn't have the money to buy my own gun. Afterwards, he gave that rifle, gave it to the person who had the license and took over. I don't have a gun myself. I have a lot of friends who are hunters, who have guns. I have some acquaintances who also have these weapons for personal use. So they probably had to at the ministry prove it. And I can't see, from your debate, I've been worried that you're taking care of the safety of the citizens if their weapons are taken away. However, weapons possession is not a fundamental human right. It's a right that is specifically right, but we must also think of those citizens who have no weapons. Therefore, all those with weapons must be completely healthy, completely secure, stable persons who know how to handle these weapons and thus provide security for many others. And in this law, I haven't seen what you're afraid of. However, you extended the debate and said it was also a danger to defend the country. I assure you, not a single hunting carbine with the best optics, not one as a real professional sniper. You can't say this way that the safety of this country will be better if people arm themselves. It depends on the weapons, and now you've said in your tail that you're handling your weapons well. I've been to JNA and there I've really learned to handle... Arms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I won the first Kalashnikov in the war, I had to show some colleagues who didn't know. In addition, the education of arms handling is important. It used to be defense and protection, and today we don't even have within the subject of technical culture we don't actually have the training of young people to handle weapons. Perhaps in this direction you should think, for besides having a weapon, it is important to have a very quality and well-handling with it, and then legal provisions that will determine that this weapon is being handled knowingly and responsibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27009	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27010	Yeah, you mentioned your youth, obviously we're the same age. The truth is that in that former system, even in elementary school, we had an object that taught us to defend the country, we used weapons, and we even had combat shootings in the 7th grade of elementary school on the so-called. Camping, I don't know if you've been through this. Now according to this law it has gone so far that the weapon must no longer be held in hand by anyone who is not 21 years old which is a violation of the Constitution again because citizens are 18 years old and not 21. So it's also a question of what's next next, when they're going to rise to 24 years or I don't know how much. And on that side, so we're seeing another one, let's say maybe the illogicality in this law where we really should think about whether we're increasing the country's safety or we're actually weakening it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27011	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27012	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I would only look back on part of your debate and I think that in some ways this disarmament is too sharp a formula, but it basically comes down to it. Because it's incomplete what you said, that you need to prove the threat. Not only do you have to prove it, but the police have to confirm that she has these threats recorded so you can get it. Practically no one can get a weapon anymore. That's one thing. Another correction would be most of these provisions, as proposed in this law does not require the EU, but is our domestic invention. On the third hand, the public debate was formally because both hunting alliances and the shooting alliance made a series of objections but unfortunately most of these remarks or key remarks were not adopted. So this law, by its own spirit, is simply not appropriate and needs to be processed and processed by its intensities and by what it does.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27013	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Srtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27014	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Comrade Bunjac, you've given us a number of reasons why our citizens would be entitled to carry arms. Among other things, one of the essential features of the state's regulation is the right of citizens to own weapons, while democratically arranged states allow, under certain conditions, their citizens to bear arms, means to pass a health check, to be trained to handle it. Totalitarian regimes, the ruling party, the ruling dynasty or the military pound reserve that right only that they are armed. This law allows all our citizens to have the right to arms, but if they respect certain conditions. It's a medical examination, you gave members of hunting associations, sports shooting alliances, that they were trained to handle it, etc. Among other things, the goal and the state should be to have weapons records in their area, and you can only do that if you give, for example, the law of regulation that they are not too restrictive. If we look back at the biggest crimes in tens of years, they were committed on Europe's ground by a truck in Nice where more than 80 innocent people were killed or if you want the United States where nearly three thousand Americans were killed in an attack by passenger planes. So if someone wants to hurt someone, they'll always find a way. So I think that, for starters, this law is good, let's say, but that it needs to be done, it needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27015	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27016	I agree in this section that in fact the law needs to be completed and I would like to be here if possible during the debate I did not prepare myself, perhaps my colleague Grumoja will help me to determine how many crimes of injury, killings in Croatia were made with legal weapons and how illegal. I remember eventually if there were a few suicides with a legal weapon, but almost the vast majority of crimes committed with illegal weapons. So we want to punish those who have not done anything wrong about the law in this way, while at the same time we do not have a clear solution to how to really protect Croatian citizens. Indeed, some new security issues are being raised at this time, indeed, the citizens of Europe have had to worry about for the last ten years. We see that all countries have in some way come to the agenda for mass murders and casualties, and for this reason I also call once again for a comprehensive solution to the issue of weapons, and in fact to work first and foremost to ensure that citizens are protected and that those who are really committing crimes are punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27017	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27018	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Secretary of State. I'm going to try some kind of brief presentation just to tell the SDSS's point of view of this bill. I would say right away at the beginning that the promoters have made a great deal of effort to define in the specific legal text the specific regulation and definition of weapons procurement and registration as a special segment, which I think is a good thing. The fact that you singled out in this legal text from the overall issue that is on the agenda today is very good for me because it needs to be regulated so separately. I don't think it's about taking away any weapons in principle, but it's about intensifying the system that the weapons that are assumed to be legally placed under control, to be recorded, to simplify the process of obtaining permits for some new weapon and simply bring order into possession and use of this dangerous thing. If it's legal, I'm not going to pollute about it. From pure logic, illegal weapons possession enters the sphere of criminal responsibility and is a whole other topic than this subject, in my opinion. I would immediately refer to the Vice-President's suggestion because it is, in principle, our real objection to this legal text, therefore, an emergency procedure. Now it has already become a rule in some way that we are passing all our laws by emergency procedure, where we remember some other discussions and some other times when the emergency procedure was an exceptional case, and everything went in two readings. Important texts are important issues, social issues have been discussed in three readings. We think it's a way to go and it's not good that we gave up on that practice just because, I remember that in the last term or the last one, we had an interpretation that we had to do this for every legal proposal that has a P.Z.E. code. If that's the rule, I can agree with it, or I can accept it, but I disagree. I think that this serious matter takes a little time, a little wider public debate than the one the ministry has spent on the Internet, so a more serious public debate, a social word, social criticism should be heard in a slightly wider way. You did satisfy the form through the online debate, 15 days lasted, there were individuals who had said their opinion, of course and the relevant institution as the Croatian Hunting Union had said its opinion, you are the largest part of those remarks you could even say and accept not to refuse but to accept most of these objections but I think this should still go to some broad public debate. So this has to go in two readings, not just this, but many of the texts that we're looking for here to go through an emergency procedure. Finally, you said, at the end of this proposal, that this law would apply, to enter into force from 2 January 2017, today it is 18. He's supposed to be in charge of what's written. So, you don't have to rush this stuff, you don't have to rush this stuff, and you need to talk about this in public. I will say only a few interesting data according to the Institute for International and Development Studies in Geneva found that the countries of the Western Balkans and America are the largest gun owners per capita. So they said that Serbia has 58 pieces of firearms per 100 inhabitants, Macedonia has 24 pieces of firearms, Montenegro at 100-23, Croatia has 100 inhabitants somewhere around 21 pieces of firearms, Bosnia at 100 has 17, the European average is somewhere around 11 pieces of firearms per 100 inhabitants. The Americas we mentioned here are far away, there are far the most pieces of firearms per population, and that's 89 pieces of firearms. So, is it a tradition or a special desire to own firearms that's already more of a sociological issue, but the fact that this number of weapons is present is recorded, and let's imagine how many more unrecorded to say illegal then this matter needs to be given special attention. A total of 275 790 weapons were registered in the Republic of Croatia according to the latest data provided by the Ministry of Interior. Of which the gun is 84 thousand, with a holding permit and carrying it somewhere around 37,000 pieces and rifles with a smooth tube are registered 70 thousand pieces. So they're members of hunting associations. These are, therefore, the blood count of our country's possessions legally, so for legally registered weapons possession. Now I'd like to say something about the law itself. I think, in my view of this issue, maybe I'm not a special expert at it, I probably didn't, but I tried to read these suggestions carefully. So the measure of things is how to make the administrative procedure simpler and more acceptable, simpler and faster to get permits to carry, own and carry, purchase, own and carry firearms. So here I have an interesting experience of how, what our people do when they apply to get a license to get a weapon through what they have to go through. So first you have to go to a family doctor where that doctor needs to confirm that you're normal, that you don't take pills, that you don't have pressure, that no one in your family has killed anyone with that certificate is then going to a doctor's office where blood is drawn, measured sugar, pressure, hearing, vision, there are psychological tests, psychological texts of circles and something else. A psychologist then makes you walk on your toes, heels, weigh weight, height, hair color, and eventually it costs 500 kuna and 20 kuna taxes, a mark. Afterwards, it goes to the police administration, filling out a form that additionally costs 70 kuna. Afterwards a local policeman comes home to check whether they have conditions for the installation of those weapons and then are invited neighbors to give a statement, their vision of that person, of course then the neighbors are very uncomfortable communicating in this situation because my God came the police are investigating something and there is a certain problem being created. And then after that, after a while, an armed paper is issued with some kind of seal that has been issued before. So, that's one experience, maybe a little was also a little caricated, but it's going through it realistically. So if the intensity of this legislative proposal is to remove these things, to simplify the procedure this way, then we accept it, and we think it's kind of a good thing. You've had a few suggestions here. This new bill of law has been classified, categorized into four categories of weapons, which we think is good. The age limit you set for the supply of weapons is 21 years, which I also think is very good. At the end of the driving licence is no longer obtained at 18 years of age, except for exceptional categories of professional orientation or people with hunting exams where you have left the possibility of obtaining a license from 18 years of age. I think that age limit is quite correct. You've defined the general terms here, and I fully agree with my colleague Tudjman. It's not quite clear to me in which way we're now going to define the justifiable reasons for the supply of weapons. It is such a stretching category that it enters the discretionary assessment of an individual who makes such an assessment, and we have negative experiences with a discretionary assessment when it comes to it, that it can also be misused in various ways, even for political purposes. So if we want to reduce the structure of the members of the hunting society, so we want to pretend to be the premises of that hunting society, then we say that it's discretionary, that there are no legitimate reasons for obtaining a license, so the number of members is reduced, etc. But now it's a subject I'm not going to spread about. So I think this thing should be a little concrete. Will this commission, which will deal with these cases at the level of the State, be assigned to serve all cases that will appear. Will they be making an assessment based on the local police station's opinion? As it's settled, I believe that you have a good intention, and it would be good if you could explain it to us, and then we won't have that dilemma. So, I keep a reserve on how to implement the category of justifiable reasons for the supply of weapons. Extending for categories that already have a license, so no new administrative procedure will be conducted that's a good thing. We also think it's good, which makes sense when illegal weapons are discovered, weapons that aren't technically correct, which aren't registered, which are therefore not in accordance with some legal standards, it's logical to take away without compensation, and I don't think they're coming in, they don't go into any category of civil rights, so they don't do any damage, they don't damage that man, the one who knowingly owns a weapon that he knows isn't legally. When you say that a person with a valid armed list will not be subject to administrative proceedings, but it will be determined whether there is a reasonable reason for the supply of weapons I also express a certain reserve. Because I'm asking who's going to do it and on what criteria they're going to determine if there's a reasonable reason for the supply of weapons. So, the same thing we're going to do is we're going into the field of discretional evaluation that's a very stretching category, and we're seeing things that can lead to certain manipulations. The Croatian Hunting Union has had several objections, you have accepted two or three as far as I can see. It would be good, the hunting alliance was looking here, he warned that civil rights and freedoms were not threatened when police were acting. I guess it's about the way it's handled, going into control in a home where it's checked out how it's a weapon, how it's kept. Is that in the register, is that in the hunting closet? So it's not about the blind door in the room, it's about the special cash register, etc. That's not even expensive. After all, hunting is a luxury, so if you want to be a hunter, then you have to have invested in certain equipment and protection of that equipment. So, do you have any information on what it was suggested to you by the Croatian Hunting Union? Were there cases on the ground that people, officials who went to check these facts, acted in a way that led to the endangerment of these civil and human freedoms. That would be interesting to see. And in the end, I'm just gonna say one thing like this that's not connected to this, but it's a fact of thought. In my opinion, this military industry, the weapons industry, the ammunition of all kinds, is a very lucrative business. This year, in fact, America achieved 66 billion euros in the job, Russia 23, Germany 6 billion euros in revenue, Croatia's $200m in revenue came true. He knows, they're tied up by a number of jobs, etc. So we need to discuss this matter very seriously and approach this problem with a specific strategic vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27019	Thank you very much. And on your exposure, we have a whole series of replicas. She's the first one to be respected by Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27020	Dear fellow Horvat, you've talked a lot about the issue of this law. I agree with you in a lot of ways. Something I prepared for my discussion, and all of you who read this law have in detail in article 16. You have an article 16 that I have the feeling that it's a law that writes about a health institution, how many items are listed there, which this doctor would have to have in order to conduct a medical examination. Well, we're coming at this time, which is what I said yesterday at the club, in a situation where a doctor, or a health care facility, must have a metal box with a key. Are we in the 1980s or are we in the century, at a time when e-recepts are issued? And who is it going to with this law? Except for legal gun owners. I'd like the proposer here to tell me when this statistics was published that she made 80, 20% and that analysis was done. We have completely different information about that. Last year, the Croatian Hunting Union brought and filed at 6 months, and I see that it has now written to all clubs on the basis of this proposal for the law of its observations. The Croatian Shooting Federation also notes and I think that this issue needs a much wider debate, respecting what practice has shown to be good. Is there a big difference in relations between European countries. And now the question is, our hunter who is a hunter of tourists, with weapons in our area, must have a medical examination every five years, and this one doesn't have to have one at all. Are we dissuading our citizens if we don't trust our citizens? We're not talking about illegal weapons here, we're talking about legal weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27021	Thank you very much. They'll respond to the esteemed colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27022	Thanks, buddy. I absolutely agree with what you said. All you've noticed is just proof that there is one more reading to be done and one broad discussion on this subject. I have also read the comments of all those who have appeared on the Internet debate, I appreciate their opinions, but I think this is more about the opinions of individuals who have seen the problem from their perspective. I think there should be an opportunity for the system institutions to be more visible about these proposals. Of course, Article 16 in my opinion has defined many things, but if we will allow, or allow, private practice, private offices to enter the sphere of examination and issue of these types of permits, then we had to sort of define all these basic elements. As far as I'm concerned, there's a lot simpler coming to the gun list in Germany than it is coming to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27023	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27024	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you said you weren't an expert on weapons, and we know you are an expert on weapons, difficult, not easy. I'm in some part of it myself. We're associates from the old days, but we're not talking about it, we're talking about this. He says this, on one condition for the supply of weapons, no one in the family has killed anyone, closer or further. How are we going to explain this to the Croatian defender who wrote in the war route that he destroyed a number of enemy soldiers in some NN action and tanks as our minister Fred and how this defender will, after he has been found to have done so, that his child will inherit his weapon today if he applies for it. It is evident that his father, who was a Croatian defender, did something at some point. Here's the first thing about Croatian defenders. And I would call on the legislator to have special consideration for Croatian defenders in order not to disarm them in this inappropriate way. The same question was, on the same condition, that the police officer in the police department on which his area was located was the person looking for that weapon. Let me give you an example of Tomislav Josic, a Vukovar defender whose brother and family were murdered and brought to you by a police officer who captured him in '91. After the fall of Vukovar and now that same cop is coming to check his gun license. What about cases like that? Or let's say the sister of the late Mark Babic comes from a police officer who took someone of his. I'd ask all of you here what we're gonna do with cases like that? We need to get a little more accounts on that. And further, what about the illegal weapon that's in the former Danube zone that's never been handed over, there's never been an organized ransom like we did where we taught our weapons and we were therefore the same damaged weapons we taught? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27025	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27026	I agree with you that there are categories that should be treated specifically or positively from these general conditions. Perhaps in the second reading, the Proposer will take care of it. But as far as I know you're talking about an illegal area in Podunavlje, it was an open deadline when citizens were called on to surrender that weapon without any legal repercussion. Anything beyond that deadline shall be subject to criminal responsibility. It is your own risk and your own responsibility and playing with legal obligations. I think most people for their own safety and turned over and all that's not is the subject of some other conversation. And I'm not a hunting expert except that I worked 15 years in the Jelen in the largest forest or hunting firm in the Balkans. I don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27027	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27028	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, with much of your debate that you've held, I agree. I agree you don't need to freak things out, you have to record them. So that's something we should stick to. But I will only tell you one thing that is provided for in Article 15(2) says "Citizens who acquire category B firearms for hunting or sports shooting" etc. ‘they should have a conviction of the health capacity to be issued on a five-year period’. Now I ask you, I've asked you before my colleagues, who in the system is the one who says this remark is not this one, this is going to be adopted, this isn't. I pray when you answer to be careful what you say because the vast majority of us come from the system of state administration and we were once co-authors of certain laws. So all I'm going to tell you is that your legal and civilizational gain is a standard in the EU around the deadline, today only Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia have it. What's the reason you're limiting something to five years? Which one? Are you going to tell me? I belong to the group, I am a member of the Croatian Hunting Union, that every 5 years we must determine whether we are healthy or not? Well, that's settled by some other laws. It is therefore an obligation to establish somewhere on the basis of something that you are not in a state in which you should be able to inform the competent authority. Why are we putting hunters in position or members of the Croatian Shooting Union, or some long category for 5 years, for what? To charge the state budget with taxes? Did those who wrote the proposal ever pass the procedure of getting a hunting card or an armed list for holding and holding and carrying? Now I ask you what it means to hold? When you're driving a weapon to a service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27029	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27030	Thank you. A colleague for a short time, and I think that should be extended to 10 years, even in remarks I saw that they were proposals to be that deadline for 10 years but then the promoter said that it would be 5 years such a time limit for checking health skills. I think that certain categories need to be extended to 10 years and there are medical institutions that can signal over those 5 years if the health condition is so disrupted that it becomes innumerable, unaccountable, dangerous to the environment, so dangerous to own a weapon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27031	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27032	Thank you, Vice President. I also welcome the secretary of state and the secretary of state, the assistants. Dear fellow Horvatt, here I would disagree with some three things with you for saying. I thought you had nothing to do with guns, so now that you've said you've been working for 15 years, I was surprised a little bit more. In fact, you say here that you notice in the law that all objections of the interested public have been accepted mostly. I don't agree with that either, mostly because they're not accepted at all. Well, you've also received probably as a party remark from the Croatian Hunting Union, and if you know of any hunter, maybe you've come to talk about this law, so you could hear the dissatisfaction of the Croatian Hunting Union and the hunters who have this law. I'm not going to talk about the details because there's going to be a lot of debate. So I think here's where you're wrong. Secondly, in your discussion, you said that this law seems to have simplified all these procedures. I think exactly the opposite here is that a lot of things are complicated or we are a member of the EU and we should see how other EU members do it and simplify it. And we are calling for this law to be in line with European directives. And we are the strictest law, which even the minister once said in the conversation that this law belongs to the most restrictive laws in Europe. So that's not where you hit the target. And this 21 years old, you say you're okay with it in 21 years, and from 18 years of age, we're giving a driver's license, people are driving at 18 and they're far more dangerous in traffic, maybe because they're on a daily drive behind a vehicle, and they can be far more dangerous with a car, even though it's less of a cubic than a hunting test. Here again, for example. The German law and then I'll quote it and then you'll see how they simplify it when they're 14 years old already handing out guns. Or do we think that we are not worthy of the EU or that we are not equal to other EU members?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27033	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Mile Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27034	And I still think a colleague of 21 years is a reasonable age limit when it can be authorized to purchase weapons, so specifically a gun that you have at home. Because here it says further that, there are exceptions when it can be granted to persons of 18 years of age. One of these exceptions is for people who pass a hunting test. So whoever's educated, who's passed, we know how to pass a hunting test, who's passed a certain practice, internship, etc. When he's 18, he can be entrusted with firearms but someone who now has only the desire to have a gun so that he can shoot and give it to him at 18 years of age, I think it's a more reasonable solution to be at the age of 21. I think that's better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27035	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27036	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Horvat, in your debate, you touched reasonable reasons. I believe that the Ministry of the Interior, not what I think it is, but according to both the law and the Constitution, must take care of the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia both those who have weapons and those who do not have weapons, as well as those who intend to obtain weapons. And of course if we as advocates seem that these measures are restrictive to me it seems that when they come from the Ministry of the Interior and I say the Ministry is responsible in that area seems somehow logical, they want to be fenced, they want me to say it like this I wouldn't want to be a member of the commission that decides whether someone gets a weapon or not. I wouldn't want to. He who is in that commission should have clear rules. You've tried to define justifiable reasons here, and it's said that it's a report of assault or threats, and from those subjective ones it's turned to objective, which is good. So it's been proven that police have records of the attack. But of course some warn now that again the commission or that man, if someone threatens me and I get a weapon, the second day Peric kills that man who will be the suspect in charge? He can even find out what kind of weapon I've got. So that's a sequence, that's a series of problems that can appear in practice. How to define objective reasons is hard to say right now. Of course I agree with you that objective reasons must be some kind of record, some kind of documentation. In my opinion, if a man wins the lottery the other day, he's certainly got good reason to get a gun. That's probably a valid reason. What I wanted, although I'm replicating my colleagues to Horvato, forgive the Vice President, but perhaps according to the Ministry's representatives, perhaps well, we'd have contact with the police officers, we have a Committee of Prevention in the municipalities, perhaps local self-government units should be involved. I don't know if that's possible. We have time now. Perhaps they too could get useful information about general security and then also about hunting associations, about people who want to get guns. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27037	Thank you. Here's a colleague, Horvath, who's still going to answer something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27038	Oh, yeah, because there's still some unspeakable reasons. So here it is said that if the applicant should consume the fact of a justifiable reason to get permission to carry a weapon, then he should specify concrete reports of attacks, threats, report it to the police, and the police should record it. I'm just curious, so let's work out a little bit of that criterion. How many of these reported threats are sufficient to meet the criteria of justifiable reasons? One threat or ten? How much? Either it is a discretionary assessment of the competent authority, which will then, that commission, which will then assess the severity of these threats and decide whether anyone has the right to carry a weapon, receive a permit to carry a weapon from some personal protection or not. I merely insisted that this criterion be justified because of the slightly stronger fortification, i.e. the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27039	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you said in your debate that there were objections to possible civil liberties injuries if it was going to check how and where the weapon was held and then you asked if that might be the reason why police officers misbehaved. But that's not at all what this is about. It's about home protection, the right to enter a home, it's one of the fundamental freedoms, and therefore it can't be given, let the police come in for any reason, that is, for this reason. It's another thing to have a statement where it's held and how it's held up. But then whoever makes that statement, who signs it, is responsible and suffers all the consequences if that's not the case. And that turn in the opinion and manner of behavior, that we have to be responsible for the statements that we give and that they have their consequences, and not for harassing the police to have to go into houses and watch, I think it's a change of mentality and attitude towards both people and to work and to the obligations we have. And in that sense, this provision in Slovenia, for example, fell on the Constitution, the Constitution brought down that provision that the police... on that basis in the house. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we simply go with an old-fashioned logic without taking care of democratic processes, about what needs to be, and we impose one solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27041	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Miroslav Tudjman. I just have to remind all my colleagues that we have a very large number of registered speakers and a lot of replicas. I think we're gonna be staying up pretty late. That's all. Here's a colleague of Tudjman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27042	Thank you very much. I will first read the proposal of the HDZ Club's conclusion that, in due time, I read only briefly, that this bill should be obtained for the registration of weapons, in fact, to conduct a second reading, and that any remarks and proposals and discussions that will be made during, that the applicant should take them into account when making the final draft of the law. In view of the times, however, allow only a telegraphic thing about whether the two Laws on Discussion and this first law that was not discussed, the Proposal for a Law on Explosive Substances and Production, the Transport of Weapons with the Final Proposal of the Law. Some remarks were made in the debate, some were not. But let me, as a lawyer, simply say something that seems irrational to me to say. The law has somewhere on 90 and some pages is written, but the structure of that law goes so that there is an article for the production and transport of explosive substances, arms trafficking, use of explosive things, civilian shooting sites, arms stores and ammunition stores, pyrotechnic goods stores, etc. Not to count them all, I'm 50. And each one actually repeats the same structure with a request for approval of this activity, so it lists what needs to be, the person responsible, and it lists what everything should be. So 20 times one repeats the same thing, instead of putting it in that term at the beginning that, which requires publishing, is a responsible person, etc. Then we'd get one easier, more transparent law. On the other hand, you have something that is simply unimaginable to me. Infringements, here I don't know if anyone has counted how much this law generates infringing provisions – 188 that are being punished for d 1000 to 80000. Well, I don't know, I think we're making those kind of misdemeanor decisions ourselves. But I don't get to talk about any more of these possible amendments that are supposed to come here. As far as this other law is concerned, it's simply not good, it's not good at its basics. First I think that, I'm going to talk about what not giving grades, but what should be in my opinion, that sense of the law should be such as to register a weapon once. Because guns don't change, numbers don't change, etc. Although it happens that they are looking for some additional markings afterwards, it can then be arranged so that every five years they carry a weapon back to the police station and that everything is checked, but that the police have the right to request that additional information if necessary. On the other hand, what has already been said, the issue of medical testimony or checking every five years as proposed by this law, the European countries do not have it. We have heard only Slovenia and I think that this amendment and this proposal should be adopted so that this complete proposal is provided for by the law to go at the beginning when this authorisation is requested, and that possible corrections in behaviour or change of health conditions can be made through competent health institutions or family doctors, to be delivered through the Ministry or to finally come to a network of these databases that we have so that the competent institutions, or the MUP, can be informed and, in that case, seek corrections, checks or additional healthcare... Furthermore, this remark was made just before, which is entering the apartment. I think we should go after this, the police need to know how to store weapons under what conditions, but it should therefore be the statement of the gun owner, or the one who has it, and it should be the basic procedure and the criteria. And the clear thing about what I said earlier, that if I gave the wrong information then I'm losing the right to that permission to hold or use the weapons I have. Furthermore, we have this provision where one old method is again sought, that among other things the officers will come to question the neighborhood in which these relations are, or even one formula that is unacceptable, disturbed family relations. Disturbing family relationships can be anything and everything. Therefore, it is necessary to enter here and it is consistent to implement this provision of domestic violence, if that is so, then it is one reason to deny that authorisation. And with these checks being done, there are now a far greater number of sources, methods and techniques as to how data can be obtained that are relevant to whether or not to give a license to someone, hence to official sources, to other databases, and to leave a clear point of conversation with persons, but not simply to caricate these things with police conversations, with neighbors or not to know what. Furthermore, this provision, which has been said to be authorised by the person who has reported that she has been compromised and who has confirmed that it has been recorded in the police administration, is simply an excess that needs to be removed and there is no room for that, nor any common sense, nor in a political sense, because the connotations are such that there is no place here. On the other hand, the question means that this authorisation is issued once, health skills are confirmed at the outset. There is now one intensities to then be introduced after 65 years of occasional five-year-old or I don't know what additional checks, although not even other European countries are looking for or having them. For 67 years, I think we should introduce it, because obviously we're going towards that age limit that it's likely to become the age limit of the working age. As already said, there is a regulation by the Minister or the Proposer proposing what health care institutions need to do in order to carry out these medical examinations, and I don't think we should change every little bit of this law and legal provisions to say that it is signed by the Minister of Health and that this is how it is dealt with. Furthermore, it is again sought with the belief of the competent authority which confirms that someone has passed the hunting test, again asking permission on authorisation instead of saying that the hunting card with a valid identification mark for a particular hunting year is sufficient for such a single solution. There are a few more of these key, controversial problems, you simply have the use of weapons with air weapons and weapons of category C and D.C. code dedicated us to the law or proposed here for 11 years, and in these European countries there are 9 years. In other words, children cannot start training adequately when other children in Europe, so they are not talking about self-using but under control, under club coaching. So I don't see any reason why we wouldn't have the same level. In the law it is also used to limit the formulations when it comes to the circumstances which indicate it. This is one very vague formulation so that there should be one more precise formulation because it still leaves the issue of discretionary rights for individuals and this can then result in this practice being different from one case to another. And there's something else that's never been said before, and by the way, we're taking a little bit of care of it, so we say listen to this bill or that law, so this one doesn't need any new funding from the budget either. However, has the time come for us to start taking care of the reasons behind the big system management? I haven't followed enough how much Mr. Horvat was talking about the number of these registered weapons but I think it's moving somewhere around 150 grand all together when it's... Even nicer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the owner is how much? 117 grand. [[/Intruder: 117 grand.]] Look, when you go to calculate how much time, how many hours of work are spent not repeating all that procedure that was already prescribed for this speaker, the time of the medical examination, the time of the police coming to you in an hour, the time of the officers who examined that weapon by modest budgets, what I could do for that amount of weaponry, or the owner of the weapon, I calculated that it goes somewhere around 600 people a year. For five years, it's 120 people doing that to you. Someone who takes care of the system should be happy to reduce that amount of hours and hours of work so as not to spend on these kinds of jobs. And I think that even from that point of view, if we want to think about it in a modern way, we need to approach this and see how much the ministry is going to free its people from these jobs that we can always justify them with the reasons for prevention, protection, that some things don't happen and that has its own logic, its own justification, but also those people can engage in a lot of other tasks and obligations to threaten and in other areas then reduce. So I think this law should go to another reading and this law go to another reading. I agree with the growing provisions of the laws of P.Z.E. They don't have to be in the first reading, that it depends on the same terms and opportunities. And I say the HDZ Club will ask for a second reading so that these, i.e. I am looking right now so that these amendments and additions of laws can be introduced and respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27043	Thank you. And we have a few replicas for your exposure. He is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27044	Dear fellow Tudjman, when you spoke about numbers and weapons owners, the lady mentioned the number of 117 thousand men she needs, I'm the only one who's googled, and you can have a laptop doctor's examination for the weapons of hunters. And then you have a whole series of offers, and you even have action offers to review 270 kuna, but you have a limited number of coupons, so you have 540 kuna + 20 kuna marks, etc. etc. What are we getting at? So whoever legally owns a request weapon has to carry out a medical examination. Why limit it to a time limit of 5 or 10 years if that review is carried out? The team more if there is an obligation to deliver the gun to the MAP or the nearest police authority the name and information of its selected physician. The police department has an obligation to inform that doctor whether his patient is a user of the weapon. So we're talking about some things that definitely have nothing to do with sound logic. I heard yesterday that some of the state institutions were looking for that famous birth certificate not over six months old, so it really surprised me. I've come to find that here's the City Hall in Rijeka looking for a birth certificate no more than six months old. What time do we live? And then he puts it in brackets to accept that document. That's exactly how this law was set up. The European directive you've been reading since 91st when it's been passed, and the whole part of it here doesn't apply to restrictions on legal weapons at all. It exclusively refers to illegal weapons, and even there appears to be some kind of concern about the possibility of producing illegal weapons with those 3D printers. And here we are talking about an institution about the Croatian Hunting Union, which is over 125 years old with its postulates, about the Croatian Hunting Union, about Giovanni Cernogaroz, whom we all celebrated the Olympic medal, from children who were at 13, 14 years old at the shooting club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27045	Thank you. The honourable representative Miroslav Tudjman will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27046	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Klaric here is actually about a few things where we are again below the level of what we can have. The first databases that were formed, which this healthcare means you can go to any pharmacy and lift the medicine. Therefore, it is necessary to network these databases of police and doctors so that doctors do not have to do it automatically, have a special task to think about notifying, but to inform, or networked, and to exchange these data. On the other hand, let's go back to that savings logic. We don't have enough doctors in Croatia today. So set them free from this business, that they may be able to engage in other obligations that are far more primary and more important. And maybe one more thing I apologize for, but I can add here. That passion for destroying old weapons just doesn't make sense. Because it's already said he has both cultural and historical value and that we're going to physically destroy it just doesn't make sense. If that should already be, then it should be such a method that at some point they can be reconstructed, that is, because in 50 or 100 years they'll simply say so what kind of savages lived here that they don't know how to relate to their own cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27047	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27048	Dear fellow Tudjman, I actually want to begin by commending your debate, you debated very constructively, metrically, you stuck to the act of the law. You went from article to article and made your remarks. In fact, I'd like to invite all the MPs to discuss it that way. And one good part of your remarks I personally hold, and so do we at the MOST Club that they are very constructive and that they may be found in the final draft of the law. We find some of them a little over-radical. And unlike you, some MPs actually use the debate about this law to intimidate those legal gun owners for whom this law practically changes nothing compared to that previous law that was so far, or which is still in force. So what I'm saying is that here we invite all of you to make all of your remarks. All those who are constructive will be respected. All those who are radical will absolutely not be respected. We want one rational law, nothing that goes into any extreme will be accepted from our side.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27049	Thank you very much. The next club representative is that SDP on behalf of which he will speak esteemed...... And I'm sorry, there's the motionary, the distinguished secretary of state, who wants to answer some questions. [[I don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27050	Thank you. Since I see that the debate has developed very sharply, I would just like to make it simple, that is, to clarify some things. The things you've made the law as new don't stand, or things don't stand. Therefore, a legitimate reason had to exist under the current law and this is not contrary to the allegations of individual representatives, the invention of the applicant, but the existence of a legitimate reason requires a directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons. It is also an incorrect assumption that this law seeks to disarm the Croatian people. Citizens who meet certain conditions, and so far they have been able to obtain weapons. The only thing they're expected to do is expect them to have legitimate reasons. Therefore, there is really no way to talk about disarmament. About limiting the validity of a medical examination. The medical examination or belief of health skills has been valid for 5 years. I can't stress enough that the health condition for a person who owns a dangerous thing, and the weapon is a dangerous thing is really crucial. Health conditions can be radically changed in six months, and here we are talking about a time period of 5 years. That there is a doctor's obligation to report changes in your health. And yes, there are records. However, that measure, i.e. that possibility of electronic notification, is now in force for the third year. So far, we have had four reports, four reports of changes in health conditions, which suggests that this measure is not relevant, and that we need an additional protection mechanism. Weapons are a dangerous thing, a dangerous thing that's in limited traffic. That's not just what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the safety of a person who owns a weapon. I'm talking about people in its immediate surroundings. As regards the emergency procedure, I would also like to clarify that this law is going, i.e. it is proposed to go into emergency proceedings because one part of the business of legal entities has been singled out from the existing law. He was singled out to join this other law, the Law on Explosive Substances, and this law is important for us to go through an emergency procedure because it implements a directive whose transposition deadline was last year. For that reason, it's a package of laws. The law was in a public debate. From all the above, there is a likelihood that they will go to another reading so that we will have the opportunity to discuss more things that seem potentially problematic. When compared to other systems that have no obligation, they do not have the obligation to repeat a medical examination. I would like to say, if we are already comparing ourselves to, say, one German who has, he prescribes the obligation of a person who has a weapon to have a one-million-euro insurance policy. Why not introduce such a thing as a control mechanism if we want to compare ourselves with others? Regarding the age of children, it is also partly true. You stated that the practice of European countries is that this age is lower. Here's my information for Slovenia. In Slovenia, children who are dealing with biathlon can engage in biathlon shooting at 14 years of age. They can only handle the shooting at 11 years old. Germany for 16 years, Austria also for 16 years, so Germany, Slovenia, Austria and that circle of countries where we belong continentally, and we always belonged, so it's not exactly true that it's 9 years everywhere. It's about field checks. The law on police and police officers have the power to collect data from citizens, for better insight into the conditions leading to the issue of the gun list, means that it leads to circumstances for a person to allow him to own a weapon. Guns are a dangerous thing. There are records, that's true, but unfortunately not all states are recorded. We have people who are alcoholics, who are users of intoxicating drugs, who are abusers in the family, and people don't have to be seduced in records. So that's why it's important to do a field check to establish the right situation on the ground. We therefore consider this measure to be justified. Here I would end up here for now, so eventually later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27051	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused a series of replicas again. He is the first to be respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27052	Thank you. Just for a little while. There must be a valid reason, but what you wrote was that it should be a threat recorded in the police that it's a legitimate reason, it's nonsense, and therefore it needs to be changed. On the other hand, a medical examination so far, a medical examination so far, it has been the last amendment of the law, otherwise it has been 10 years, and on the other hand we have seen that a series of countries are not there, therefore there is no reason to do so because today, not only today, today your driver's license is also especially for D or I don't know what it's called for for driving a truck far more problematic but for driving a plane is doing a far bigger terrorist or I don't know what kind of attacks, so I don't think it just can't stand that reason, but we need to act on the basis of an analysis that you don't have. When we were at the debate of those 274 muggings that you said happened, you had no idea whether it was with legal or not legal weapons, etc., therefore the laws are passed from some world-wide or idealized images of the world in a positive or negative sense, rather than on the basis of empathy and fiction. On the other hand, field check, you know what, I've been living in one building for 50 years, I have no idea who the tenants are around me, and I doubt they know much more about me, and something about intelligence I think I know because I think I know how to collect data. So this field check of what it's like to define simply is the archaeology of God's people. So take a look at what's going on in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27053	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27054	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Secretary of State said, the topic is a personal protection weapon, I didn't mean to talk about it at all today, and I wouldn't want to think that the great public focus is on that part of the change in this law, and I don't think it's the most important one, but you said one sentence that a provision is being introduced that now there needs to be a legitimate reason to make that weapon..., you said that a little earlier when it did. ... That's what I was about to say, that's why it should have existed by now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's just that I find it much more problematic that Mr. Tudjman is saying that there's a need to redefine the evidence, and I agree with that part because it's quite a bit of a closed story. But what bothers me, which I think is the problem, the person who's felt some kind of threat up until now would come to the competent police station then report that he feels threatened and wants to get a weapon, then the police station and his parent authority would be conducting tests on whether it's justified, not justified and drawing conclusions. If she found out it wasn't justified, she'd say no to that person and that's where the story stops. If it has concluded that this is justified, it would be possible to forward this proposal to the competent police authority, which would also discuss whether or not it is necessary and then, if it were to be concluded that the person should then receive it. According to this bill, it will now be done by a commission in Zagreb on the Sava road appointed by the minister, which says that this assessment will be done by a commission appointed by the minister. Now I think that there is a much better variant existing because the competent police station certainly knows better about the citizens in its area whether they are threatened, not threatened and what they are and whether they need to be authorized by weapons or not by the competent police administration than by some commission in Zagreb. Here's if I get the wrong idea, correct me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27055	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27056	Well, you didn't convince us at all in the part where you told us about why the medical examinations, which is why what we're saying is not acceptable. In the last month, an official weapon has killed three police officers. Who authorized them? Did they go to the neighbors to question what kind of people they were? It's an individual thing. What we're talking about, we're talking about the institutions of some kind of Croatian hunting alliance, the Croatian Shooting Union, I'm not getting into what my colleague Djujic was talking about, some kind of weapon where there's justifiable suspicion of his self-defense. I'm talking about people who passed some kind of test, which, in order to be members of a particular society, must meet certain criteria. In each joint hunt or use of firearms, a hunter or person in charge of hunting lists participants, lists and numbers of their hunting cards, enters the number of their armed list, where you will be more controlled. It's, it's an institution that lasts, it has its own rules and laws beyond all these laws that we've been talking about here for 125 years with publications, with scientific works dealing with breeding, protecting and hunting savages and where weapons are a kind of means of that hunt. And we're talking about a second category of people, about my Kvarner Shooting Club in Bakr where young people at 10, 12, 13, 14 go for a bit to perfect themselves in arms handling and in sports competitions with these weapons. And we can't impose any restrictions on them. We agree medically that a review should be carried out, so that the law can be incorporated even if there is any doubt by the MUP and the police that it can be referred to some extraordinary medical examination. But what does a five-year deadline mean? He's looking at someone within five years, he's gonna charge him this money, so with the number when it's done, we'll see what the amount is, and we'll force that person to do something with all the controls he's got at home that a cop's coming to watch where he's holding that weapon and to ask him about the neighborhood as he is. I think there's a little bit of it, but we're stuck in some other time before the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27057	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27058	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state several times you mentioned a weapon is a dangerous thing. It's the same thing, I'm an electrical engineer, you know, then I hear my neighbors' electricity is a very dangerous thing, and those people panic general, guns are a dangerous thing just for ignorants, for ordinary laymen who have never seen it, and then they're threatening guns, so I'm sure someone's going to kill me with guns. Like the one I touch the switch, I might get electrocuted, and so you say, it's not good for you to talk like that, but you're still the secretary of state of our ministry, so it's not good to say guns is a dangerous thing, a dangerous thing. Car's a dangerous thing, plane's a dangerous thing, electricity's a dangerous thing, it's all dangerous stuff. But for this law, however, it's written for people who have weapons, who have permits, we train them to be strict over them. That's why it should be a little more tolerated, and not go with the premise here the weapon is a dangerous thing and now let's give everyone who accidentally thinks about having a weapon, we need to find ways to crush them, crush them, and warn them because they're definitely going to do something with that weapon. It's very dangerous to go into law writing with such a hunch. You say that this primary protection does not work and this Article 17 in which a doctor of primary health care must report if there is a problem, as it does not work. So let's make it work, let's see what's up with the information, that that primary protection doctor when he writes something or some diagnosis or some medicine means it automatically signals that it's out there somewhere in the police, because it tends to a unique information system. We must compare ourselves with others for what is good. We have entered the EU in order to be equal with some of the others we like, some where we want to be like us. And this 9 years then, it's well said here in the position of the Shooting Alliance "Because gun handling is under strict control of the coach." So coach doesn't take that 9-year-old weapon so he goes down the street and walks, he plays with it, but he comes to practice, he comes to get ready for some kind of competition. So we don't have to threaten those nine years, and I think that would be realistic if we put those nine years together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27059	Thank you. The next replica is an esteemed colleague of Nikola Grumoya. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27060	Dear Vice President, here's the secretary of state I think that here in this debate it's important to point out from the beginning that it's gone in the wrong direction, it's said that this law is restrictive and then we're having a discussion about this every five years of medical examination? A medical examination every five years was also in law before this, it's not something new that is now proposed by this law. So then we can talk here whether we want to liberalize the law, so are we going to liberalize the law, help people get to weapons more easily or not? But don't argue in the wrong direction. So you started with the law being restrictive, and now you're questioning the provisions that were in the existing law. We need to decide whether we want to liberalise things, so do we want to liberalise or keep this legislation as it is? I think that the number of crimes committed by legal weapons says that legislation, that is, that this law is now as it is, that things should not be set up more restrictively, nor should things be further liberalised. As for these medical examinations, it means that to leave this to the doctors of general medicine, we have heard that only 4 reports of family medicine doctors have reported that the health condition has changed. Professor Tudjman says it could be computerized like this, and the question is how are hunters going to ask or people who have guns how they're going to go to those doctors who report it, whether they're going to check in or they're going to ask for a doctor who might not want to report it, who's going to close one eye? So these are strong, so guns are a dangerous thing if they're in the hands of people who aren't psycho-physically capable of operating weapons and possessing weapons. And we can't play with it. And the question if we change that, if we stop what exists in the existing law that people have to go to a doctor every five years to see what it will lead to?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27061	Thank you. We've got a colleague, Sagar, who's been doing some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27062	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament was injured in Article 230. Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Djakic, came forward for a discussion outside the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, but I think we should allow him to speak because he probably has something to say about this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27063	Honestly, I don't know if he called out of time, but okay. I appeal otherwise, you raised that question well, I appeal to everyone to try to be focused and part of what my colleague Grumoja said is going to do exactly that. Let's concentrate on the text of the law, on the newspaper in that law and whether they're good, whether they're bad, etc. etc. Because according to my assessment, rough before I thought we'd be done by eight o'clock. At this rate, we're not going to finish up to 10 with the number of replicas and the number of reported ones, just to keep everyone on that account. But we do have another replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27064	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, so respected secretary of state. So, in Article 14, you have now mentioned these medical examinations. It is not clear to me, however, that the way in which the health examination is carried out will be determined with the agreement of the Croatian Defence Minister. So I don't understand what the Croatian Defence Minister has to do with medical examinations. If the health minister prescribes a rule and he is a professional person, so Article 14 special conditions are 4, so the minister responsible for health care here says, that the Croatian Defence Minister must give consent. For what? In what way is he an expert to determine someone's psychophysical, medical ability? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27065	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27066	... What? [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] No, indeed it is because. No, there is a provision that is in line, that is, taking into account the wishes of Croatian defenders who suffer from some form of PTSD, to take into account the opinion of the doctor who has followed them so far when issuing his opinion on their health. So, not only should they be left to a committee, or doctor who has not seen them before, but also to consider the opinion of their primary health care doctor — psychiatrists, if guided by a psychiatrist. So, it doesn't have to, it's not a key opinion, it's just to consider it. There, that was intensity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27067	Okay. I have to admit, I understand this discussion less and less, but it's probably a matter of my limitations. We will now give our word on behalf of the SDP club to respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We've been on vacation for a long time, so I guess we're all eager to have more discussion together. Mostly respected colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the ministry, I want to say at first that no weapon is good and that the world would be much nicer without weapons, that we don't have one at all. But since we already have it and when it is there, what we in the SDP want to warn about, what we think is one basic and key thing about holding and carrying arms and legal regulations that regulate it, which is that the main problem in Croatia, not only in Croatia, but also in Europe, is illegal weapons, and this law does not solve it. Not at all, but it does not solve to a significant extent, but this law applies exclusively to those who legally own weapons in Croatia, and we have no problems with them, as a general rule, in most cases. These are people who are legalists, who are law-abiding and who are subject to much more rigorous treatment by state authorities than citizens who do not possess weapons or those who possess it illegally. This bill, compared to the existing law, will in no way make a greater move and improve the fight against those who illegally possess weapons, acquire or use weapons. It's not the legal problems, it's the ones who own it illegally, and that's what we in the SDP would like to hear from this debate as the main message. ... No, no, okay. Comrade Djakic, you will have a chance. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It's all right. But also what counterpart Grmoja said, the current law was passed in 2006 and when it was passed in Croatia, about 37,000 pieces of weapons were owned by the citizens, it was so registered. And according to data from the ministry today, we have about 270 thousand pieces of that weapon that owns about 117 thousand owners, and that is exactly what the law passed in 2006 has become significantly rigorous and that law has significantly sharpened the procurement and possession of weapons in relation to what it was until then. And that also resulted that today, compared to that law that was passed, we have about 11 years ago about 100,000 pieces of weapons less. And by this law, this bill makes most of the provisions essentially and doesn't change what we currently have in place. And some things aren't even good to change honestly, because guns must be under control, weapons must be under every control of the state. So you can't exactly liberalize it, at least that's what we think in the SDP. But that some other things that are beyond every logic and make it difficult for the administrative-burocratic procedure to obtain weapons to those who possess it lightly need to be made easier and should be discussed. On the other hand, the same important fact is that in Croatia, according to the estimates of some experts, we have about 500 thousand illegal weapons, and that is the problem and these data just confirms what I said at the beginning, and that is that the main problem in Croatia is that illegal weapons versus illegal weapons. We also need to draw attention to the fact that most of the crimes in Croatia have been committed by illegal weapons, even in a higher percentage than you have told us in this 80 percent estimate than 90% of the cases are illegal weapons, and only about a dozen are the legal ones. It is also good that citizens today can return illegal weapons without sanctions to the competent police station. But unfortunately, that's not enough in itself. What's also worrying us is that this law, it's good that it's being passed, it's good that it's headed towards the new Arms Act, it's good that it's separated into two laws. However, this was also an opportunity to resolve certain things that are not good in the existing law. Unfortunately, however, they do not get rid of each other. And that is why there are a series of objections to this law that have been delivered by associations such as the Hunting Union, the Croatian Shooting Union, are what we have already mentioned together before me and that will probably be behind me all together and speaking. Even the objections to this law have a large number of experts and those directly concerned by this law and precisely those whose members or users own 85% of their weapons in the Republic of Croatia are the most dissatisfied with this bill and have sent a series of objections and illogicalities to this law. But again, I'm stressing it's a large part of the things that are still in force today. So we need to talk about how the shortcomings in the future will improve and improve. Some of these illogicalities have been here for 11 years, and this new law has been the opportunity for these shortcomings to be resolved. I am now not going to list all the examples and illogicalities that have been pointed out by many associations, primarily the Hunting and Shooting Alliance, because I don't think it makes any sense because we all got them together, so every representative in this Chamber has received objections from hunting alliances, shooting alliances, all clubs, etc. We're all familiar with them, so it doesn't make sense that here right now I'm saying by some of their remarks what should be done. Some of these remarks are justified, some of them are not justified, so this should be discussed. But what I want to point out is that this law was also referred to as an emergency procedure in this previous 8th Assembly meeting, which was referred to in the procedure, then it was decided on a proposal from the parent board that he was not going after all, that the emergency mark was removed. Even in the last session, the first reading was held, but we all know that then the 8th symposium disintegrated early and the second reading never occurred. And given the number of objections that exist about this bill, primarily the hunting and shooting alliance, and also a number of others, and I can see that so far in the debate I've heard that most other clubs support it, the SDP Representatives Club has also submitted an amendment that contains all those remarks made by the Hunting Union, we have referred it to the procedure in writing. I don't think it would have been if we'd stolen something, but that's all we gave. And since this amendment has significantly changed us in the SDP club, we have now officially asked for a third reading of that law, since this is the first and second reading, or it is the technical form that we consider in the SDP that the only way to satisfy that this law is going to be another reading, which is why it is called the third reading, but in the main case, we are asking that the law goes into another reading, and since, after the debate so far, I don't think it will really be a problem and that this will be supported by all the representatives' clubs, and then until that second next reading, we should be able to contact additionally, and I especially appeal to the promoter, and to further include the hunting alliance, the shooting alliance and all the interested public, but also all the proposals of the representatives, and then to significantly correct this law and to remove the objections addressed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27069	Thank you very much. And we have replicas on your exhibit. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27070	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Djujic, here I am a little surprised I didn't hear this information where you say there are 500 thousand weapons illegally in the Republic of Croatia. If we add these 270 thousand more to legal terms, it's a massive number of weapons. I wonder where you got that information from. Is that really the right information? It's a really big number. What I want to emphasize here is that you said again on several occasions, a rigorous law. We have cases today that a certain test has to be passed to handle the chain saw. So I'm curious at this point what are you thinking when it comes to rigorous law? Of course we rule out hunting and shooting alliances. We're talking about getting weapons for personal purposes. Is it a medical examination, whether it's some commission work that will then determine in individual cases that a person can get a gun license and not. What is a rigorous measure in that part? And when we talk about the relationship between illegal and legal weapons, he doesn't think there's a parallel to that. in legalising easy drugs. If we say that legalizing easy drugs will reduce the amount of illegal drugs, I don't think that's the case with weapons because whoever intends to commit crimes, they'll never legalize their weapons or get it legally. So I don't think the provisions of this law will affect this relationship between legal and illegal weapons, especially because, as you say, there are so many. And there was a series of MUPs who ran a series of arms-gathering actions, and I don't think the ministry could have succeeded in that intention if they still had that number.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27071	Thank you. The esteemed representative Djujic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27072	I got this information from my colleague, Sagar, who, in conversations with employees, even the MUP that deals with it. Is he right, isn't he? I don't know, I'll take that. The other thing is, I don't know what you're surprised we have so many illegal weapons. So we're the country that came out of the war. We in Croatia have more World War II weapons, let alone the Homeland War that was 20 years ago. When I say rigorous law, then I think it is one of the most rigorous in Europe in the EU. And you said when you asked me what that means, a rigorous sign, that you mean a weapon for personal purposes, not a weapon for hunters, shooters, athletes, in fact, dealing with shooting, etc. There are no weapons for personal purposes, and it is the hunters, athletes who own 85% of the legal weapons in Croatia in the shooting alliances. So you still have 15% of the weapons that are registered, then there's the police, the military, etc. So basically most of the ones you thought that that didn't apply. And when I speak rigorously, I think to people who have hunters, athletes, etc. This law, with its provisions, further complicates the procurement of the holding and management of those weapons. They're complicated and they're making it hard, okay, but we need to talk about whether we need some things that are really out of our minds to get out of here or not. Medical examination, myself, here's my personal attitude is I don't know, I don't know if it takes 5 years or 10 years. But the fact is that you pass a driver's test, then you pass a medical examination, you get a driver's license, and by the age of 65 no one asks you for health, and maybe after 20 years of putting you at greater risk than someone who has a gun, you might be jeopardizing more citizens. So these are the things to discuss now. But here's me personally I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27073	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27074	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, so here's a distinguished colleague when I have to say that I agree first and foremost with the great part of what you said, but given the information available to me by introducing this 5-year obligation, how much information I have the statistics has not changed in many respects, let's call it a violation. So, as far as I understand it, we're talking about the law, about getting a registration of a citizen's weapon, and I think this was about the ones who were legal. I agree with you that we have a problem with illegal stories that we'll probably have to regulate absolutely the same day. So I'd say, you say today some provisions of the law are more rigorous. I agree with you, but that's why we're here to discuss it and bring changes, or amendments or additions to an act. So, specifically, the law. So we here are the ones who got the trust and had the right to discuss and make decisions about it. So the act is something, or the law is something that we regulate, we standardize. I'm just fighting to keep something from getting too freaked out, not to put too much pressure on it. And about these things, as I understand it, here are the representatives of the ministry for the answers they've given so far, and I hope that in the future everything that's logical you'll accept in one reasoned debate that it'll be the best that we can have in terms of the law. Is every law better than any law we don't have. So we're regulating something. And I agree that the weapon is an absolutely great danger. And as for the comparison of this when a man drives a car, I would say that a man is an abandoned grain that he drives every day, so it's a matter of health in which he should be able to reach the goal or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27075	The Honorable MP Djujic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27076	Thank you, colleague Mikulić. Well, you're basically agreeing with me and I'm glad you're getting along with me, and what you said was a little questionable is, in fact, you've repeated what I said. So we're actually getting along, and I'm glad about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27077	That's great. Next on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, distinguished MP Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27078	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, and I welcome you all on behalf of the HSS Club, and I would like to say immediately that the HSS club will also ask that the emergency mark be removed from this bill, or both, and that it goes into regular procedure because we discussed it in May last year when these laws were in the procedure of the previous meeting. And here is the fact that it is also 125 parliamentary representatives then, almost all clubs were for these two laws to go into regular procedure I see no reason not to do so and now especially because we have received like all clubs correspondence from the Croatian Hunting Union, the Croatian Shooting Union and other interested parties that a series of their remarks are not respected in these two draft laws. I would like to remind you that both laws have gone with the intensity of the implementation of the European directive towards increasing the security of citizens and security in Croatia, but towards reducing the administration. These remarks show that much can be done better and better. We at HSS and myself personally advocate not to go towards talking against hunters and those who are involved in shooting and sports and those who have guns because there is a saying in Croatia "That empty rifles are colored by two and the one who holds the rifle and the one who is standing in front of the gun." And I think that gun owners, hunters and people who deal with sports shooting are not a threat to security in the Republic and that they should not be afraid of them and that the law should not go towards stricter measures because of them. That is why here is also the name of 70 thousand Croatian hunters and a huge number of people who are engaged in sports shooting insist that this law goes into regular procedure, to engage in discussions of all their observations and to try to find a model so that the law is acceptable to everyone first of all to implement the European directive, on the other hand to increase the safety of our fellow citizens and third to reduce administration and to dissipate both Croatian hunters and the Croatian Shooting Union, or sports archers. We know how much money we have and how hard it is to be a hunter and a sports shooter in Croatia today because it is all an expensive sport. You also mentioned some examples from the European state, of course there are examples and where, at 9, 11 or 14 years old, you can deal with shooting, in Germany and in hunting at 14, here is the 18-year limit, and we also see some of the restrictions that we have put in place that they have not given any significant statistical changes, that most of the crime has been done with illegal weapons and that this which is legally not used in more than 90% of the cases. And so here we think that we need to meet precisely Croatian hunters because if the 5-year limit to the duration of the medical examination did not give any movement in that statistics. Then we need to see financially what it is and how much it costs for Croatian hunters. Because with the already mentioned fact that it is from 500 to 700 kuna, plus a state fee of 70 kuna plus travel expenses, it moves about 1000 kuna per Croatian hunter. Why don't you meet them to cut it down? Why not go for 10 years like it was before 2006 and about that we agreed to clubs and ten months ago here in the debate that it should be returned for 10 years. The Croatian Peasant Party, if this provision remains in the law, will also go with the amendment to return it to Article 16(2) that a health check is valid for 10 years, especially as the family doctor has an obligation to report a health change to the hunter. And we can't punish hunters for the fact that two state institutions, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and a family doctor can't find a model to report a change in the state of a health psychophysical hunter. I think there's got to be a model to make it work, that's what happens if we already have the medicine codes, the disease codes. If the doctor types in the disease code that automatically red in the Ministry of Interior titres and then the Ministry of Interior can react, not that the hunter is forced into a new medical examination that is truly expensive. We will also advocate a more concrete application for personal security weapons, that this is precisely what protects the constitutional right to freedom of every citizen to enter a home, etc. which has already been mentioned here, to sort it out with some other model. For example, you have a situation where you're not good with a neighbor, and when he sees the police coming to you, there's talk and hope, and in the end you can't get guns for something other than those animosities. Or at the end of the assessment of an official from the Ministry of the Interior is it always relevant, because it may happen that because of some belongings to political parties and some other activities does not give you consent to the purchase of weapons. I think that, because the intensity is also in the EU because of terrorism, that there is an increase in the number of requests for the supply of weapons and that is not the problem there. People are getting weapons and I think we should go now to reduce illegals, and we have heard that in Croatia there are over 500 thousand in some estimates and that there are as many legal ones as possible. It should also be pointed out that it is necessary to continue with this action that citizens can return illegal weapons from the Homeland War and other forms of ownership without criminal charges and criminal charges, as these actions have delivered their results. But I would also mention and commend the action done by the Ministry of the Interior through local police administrations with primary and secondary schools, where it brought students and high school students closer to the dangers of explosive devices, of weapons and that these actions should be done and thus educate our citizens from small feet how to deal with this problem and how to report. This residual weapon and mine explosive means and, of course, continue to demining the Republic of Croatia and enable our people working on demining to have salaries that are worthy of man, that they can live off that salary and also take care of their safety because we see that there are still a large number of people working in demining are suffering in minefields. Because because of this decision to go to as many demining squares as possible, with the drop in price went to the expense of the quality and safety of the people working on these jobs. I think we have a lot of work to do together in that direction. Of course we should mention here and defenders especially those who have a diagnosis of PTSD, so I will give an example from the practice that the Croatian police officer who was among the first to defend Croatia's homeland and was on his way to review and was diagnosed with 20% PTSD. He refused to retire immediately and was allowed to remain in the system. As such, he still worked and carried arms for ten years, and as soon as he retired, they came to him and took his weapon and had no right to carry and hold a weapon because he had 20% PTSD. I don't think that's right, especially since we know from research that this disease is also treatable. And why when you get a diagnosis from a doctor that a man is cured is no longer respected and our volunteers can't get a license to carry and hold a weapon again, and neither does hunting. I think that is why it is good for us to go into another debate and try to solve these cases in order for our people who were among the first to enter the defense of the Croatian homeland, and these were hunters, we know that how important every rifle, volunteer, and that we have to take care of them. Of course, we are called upon by those of us who have the weapon to observe it in accordance with the law, wear and manage it and thus protect ourselves and others in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27079	Thank you. We've got replicas on your exhibit. He's the first to be respected representative of the Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27080	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Vlaović. So, I fully agree with you, we live in the 21st century, informing the system, this information that can be easily reached by a family doctor and the Ministry of the Interior on the change of health of each citizen is something that would certainly facilitate the process itself and should work on it. We now have this Digital Society Central Office, and there the government should make sure that such information is easier to go, especially here, I will stress about hunters, hunting associations. We can't, even though I'm not a hunter, I'm hanging out with them, so I hear they're not just shooting savages. So they do a lot of actions that are of general benefit to society. They are these activities that they conduct in nature certainly affect the individual psychophysical health of a person especially when talking about defenders who are members of hunting associations. But what may be most important to mention is somehow getting through, hunting associations are probably the only associations I know that are funded from their memberships. So rarely or almost I don't know if there are any cases that the local self-government units are funding hunting associations. On the other hand, when it is the day of the municipality, when it is some kind of club has its anniversary, the hunting associations donate meat or what it takes for such a event. In this regard, it is important to be careful and certain that observations under the law should go in such a way that hunters are no longer burdened. It means that this administration is made as easy as possible and that people are doing what is really their hobby and what they love.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27081	Thank you. The next replica is an esteemed representative... And you want to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27082	Excuse me, I've raised my hand you haven't seen. Here's a sentence. Thank you for your support to Croatian hunters and should say that some of them are also available through hunting tourism and that is another reason to be a little more flexible towards the Croatian hunter and the hunter because if a German hunter does not have to have a health card or that he is able to deal with hunting, and he who leads him must go every five years, so here I am also supporting your debate and I hope that all MPs will go to this when it is voted on to respect this requirement to go to ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27083	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you have well established that many of the problems in the past have been with Croatian defenders of PTSD treatment and that in most cases they have suffered and that their weapons have been taken away. They were taken away because they had 20% PTSD and when their selected primary healthcare doctors had already given consent and confirmation that they had improved medically, when a specialist established a competent health care institution of the MUP did not respect it and refused any such proposal which was very strange. I am pleased that it can be in the law that the Minister of Health appoints a commission to solve these cases in the second degree of appeal, and indeed when a man has proven himself well after a medical specialist review, why would he not have the consent again and get the possibility of obtaining weapons because most of our volunteers have gone with hunting weapons in defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. To them it's as if you took one hand away from them with a grenade when you took away their weapons, they're actually in nature with savages but with use and weapons when they need to do the sanitizer actually cure themselves. That's what we need to consider because there's a lot of our boys, I think there's 30,000 of those who are treated with PTSD, and that's a huge number. I don't know exactly how many of them are members of hunting associations and the Hunting Union, but we must seriously stick to the job, given that if doctors of primary health care or selected doctors have a duty to report on the deterioration of the situation, they must also be reported when they have been established according to specialist or personal examinations that man is not dangerous to people and the environment, that he is not schizophrenic, that he is not in F63.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27085	Thank you. The distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27086	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Djakic, so I fully agree with you that this population of defenders who suffer from PTSD did not deserve such treatment at the time that they were taken away from them that even then they could already go with a mild model of agreement with the doctor and different approaches, but immediately the weapons were taken away, and now they have to prove themselves healthy. After that, when they prove they're healthy, they can't get a re-license for holding and carrying guns. And it is good that in the bill of this law, this intensity is to be resolved through a second-degree body, through this commission, because it is certain that going into nature, hunting and recreation and therapy, and that these people should be able to deal with and to live healthy and to deal with hunting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27087	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HNS-HSU MP, Anka Mrak Taritash, on behalf of the Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27088	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. After a long debate like this when there's a lot of clubs and then when you get to the last clubs in line, it's more or less said. However, I think there are always some topics that need to be highlighted, or should be repeated, or highlighted. I'd concentrate here on a few issues. The first theme is first reading, or second reading. It is very interesting that this law has already been in this Chamber in this House, that we have discussed it, that on December 1st it also came into the procedure, that it was a proposal to go first and second reading, so the final proposal by emergency procedure, and now it would be very interesting to know what happened from December 1st to now. And in that I would like to point out and say, I am one of those who advocates that the laws go through two readings. Very often we put a P.Z.E. mark into the law. and we are in line with the directives, but other than compliance with the directives, there are a number of other topics, and then, under compliance with the directive, it goes in an emergency procedure. Much better and better to go in two readings for the simple reason that, through the first reading, we can say a series of remarks, a series of topics, we can come up with some remarks as it came from the Hunting Union. There's obviously something else going on here with these laws, but it's a special topic. Likewise, the EU directive. Croatia is a member of the EU, the bond is applied in its legislation to integrate directives, but we can also adapt some situations here and that directive to our situation. In Croatia there is a tradition of hunting, there is a tradition of archery in Croatia, which I have the opportunity to see when everyone at the Olympics, we are very proud when our gold medals are won and we need to take care of it. I'm the one around here who said what attitude they had toward the weapon. If I had to defend myself, I'd probably defend myself with a cook 'cause I have this attitude towards guns. But in my husband's family, the hunters are traditional. So when there was a traditional hunt and there was always a lot of guns in that house and it was always under lock and key kept the way it was supposed to be and my kids grew up with those guns and never tried or got close to it, nor tried anything at all with guns. But the tradition ends with my father-in-law because he's gone away and checked out neatly, all done was what he had to do at the time when we had years when he decided it would be devastating for him or for everyone else to deal with hunting. What am I saying? Medical examination, let's not be more Pope than Pope. What we need to see is what is happening in other EU countries. I don't have enough data to be able to talk about it metrically, but absolutely don't let it happen, we don't have to let situations happen when we have hunters from Italy or from Germany that apply the rules that apply to them in their country of origin. That our hunters have stricter rules than guests from Italy or Germany come. I can give a slight comparison when we were harmonising the legislation in the area of construction with EU legislation, and I was all the time stressing and, of course, we made it much more liberal so that it didn't happen to us. Because what's going on? It happens to you when you go the other way, when our hunter goes hunting in Italy or Germany is worth what's worth in his country of origin. So let's be smart and coordinate this legislation to be the same, so we don't get stricter. Because what if we don't get a chance to see it? You know when laws are too strict, when they're restrictive then they go to their opposite. Don't let what was an opportunity happen to us and speak here and it's a legal and illegal weapon. If at one point you're too restrictive and too strict, you're threatened with the danger of a part of the legal going underground, so we've made a bigger problem than a solution. And of course, we're talking about those who are in the system, who have legal weapons they use for, but we're not talking about those illegal weapons that we really have in these areas, and from World War II, the rest of the rest of us, I was alone as a girl of 10 years ago when my peer was killed by a bomb that remained from World War II, and I have to admit that I have a trauma for life. There must be a terrible lot of weapons left of the Homeland War, it's an illegal weapon, and it's a special topic that needs to be handled. But I always advocate that we have provisions, that the provisions be clear, that they be unequivocal. I also advocate that we have regulations that define it, but too strict regulations go into their extremes. Let's not do this, and let's not make it equally certain that what's not good, let's not be a stepmother to our people, so that those who do shooting or hunting with us have incomparably more difficult and restrictive conditions than it is for the countries that come here. I will support and our club HNS, HSU will support that this goes in two readings for the simple reason that we are in principle such a position. It is equally good in the process of making any regulation, which is, it is better to consult those who apply this regulation two or three times than to adopt it and then not to apply it or to change it quickly. That's what I'm saying on the trail of objections that came from the hunting alliance or from those who are involved in the shooting. And once again, it is good for us to talk to them and see and bring a regulation that is reasonable, not to bring it in, but to change it immediately and supplement it. What's the problem of weapons is the problem we see in other EU countries, and that's what we're going to do with illegal weapons, it's reckless dealing with these weapons, it's a problem of terrorism that will certainly be a problem this century because it knocks on the door of Europe. However, these are some other regulations that will have to be resolved. Since this law will go into two readings, these remarks, which were made in the first reading, are fundamentally related to compliance with some other EU countries and still to those to whom this law applies, because it is good to see when it comes to the law on the acquisition and registration of weapons, then we are clearly talking about hunters, we are talking about those who are involved in shooting and we are talking about personal security. This for personal security is quite a strict procedure, quite a difficult procedure, so the question is how much must it be. But if this is a law relating to these groups, then let's listen to them, let's talk to them and let's try and, in accordance with EU directives, really see what the rules in EU countries are so that we can be harmonised in this work without being the most restrictive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27089	Thank you very much. But there's a whole series of replicas on your exposure, too. He is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27090	Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, you and I have traditionally agreed on the reasons why we are thinking operationally and what life carries. But as a contribution to your weight here's what I'm going to write down from the directive, or from the call of the European Parliament. So there are 80 million unregistered weapons in the EU. They suggest increasing pressure on criminal markets, proposing curbing illegal arms trafficking, building better intelligence systems. This communication is the European Parliament's call for stronger action in order to identify and address the problem of a sensitive life cycle of firearms and watch out for this protection of legitimate production, sale and possession of firearms, and the interruption of criminal chains and separation from illegal activities. So, the European Parliament has clearly written to us what the European directive also says about curbing illegal, combating illegal and protecting legal production of sales and possession of firearms and what we have said about why to be greater Papa than the Pope? We are for medical examination at the moment when a person is looking for a weapon, we are for checking all of this in a further body, but we are not for imposing something that other countries in the EU do not have, I also said in the first line. You've reached out to me on the subject of hunters who come to our area and who own weapons on a different, more liberal basis than we do. And what I know, and I've got a '83 weapon. In 2000, they introduced these medical examinations, and absolutely nothing changed in that part that something reduced the percentage of those unfortunate events in terms of medical examinations. But it's imposed on hunters who have 30, 40 years of hunting experience and a sense of injustice towards them in that section have to ask his neighbor that has to perform a medical examination that something that's wrong. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27091	Thank you very much. Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak-Taritash, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27092	Thank you very much. So, I might focus on two things here. The first thing is the EU directive and that Croatia has had quite a good experience from the 1990s, which means illegal arms supply, which means resales in the centre of Zagreb because we had what we had and the way Croatia lost its weapons. Indeed different arms dealers walked in the center of Zagreb, I worked in the municipality of Trnja and then... A man with a catalog came by, so you could buy what you wanted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's something that we know through our history, and we certainly need to fight it, and we know how it is. And to get back to this subject of hunters, I really need to set an example that's from my family. My father-in-law, when he turned out to be a certain number of years, said I no longer want to be a hunter for the simple reason that I can be dangerous to myself and others. He's 84 today, 85 years old. He drives a car neatly. And I think he's just as dangerous when he sits behind the wheel, even though he's convinced it's not a problem. But he realized there was a problem. Thus, there is also a need to put in place certain restrictions that are bound no matter what age or need. I wish we had some real experience here that had some neighbouring countries and that it wasn't us now, that we weren't making something new. Let's be smart around here, then rewrite good practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27093	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27094	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Mrs. Taritash, exactly what you said, let's not be more Catholic than the Pope. One example. A European armed pass, so that's what it means for you to get your weapons, I'm going to Italy now to hunt and carry my weapons. In Europe, it's worth it when you're betrayed indefinitely, and it's worth five years in us. And now why? A hunter from the EU can come. So we have entered the EU to accept all good gains and not to underestimate ourselves but to see that we are some primitives, Balkans who are savages who will kill each other and not accept what is positive from the world. Not to say German regulations that are also more liberal than this. So here's what you said, and that's all we need to stick to with all the personal traumas one of us can have. We must not be restrictive to those who have legal weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27095	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27096	I don't usually talk about these topics, so guns aren't too close to me. However, it seems that when I talk about these topics, we all agree, and this is how some satisfaction exists, regardless of what side of the assembly we sit on. Then it is obvious that there is a problem that needs to be solved and properly defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27097	Thank you. Obviously, we all agree, but we all have the urge to talk about it. But let's move on with the replicas. Honourable representative Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27098	Here's my dear colleague, today you mentioned two things I would refer to. The first is this hunting tourism, and we all look back on it. Here's what I'm doing to make us all agree. So it would only contribute to data that we have 7.3 million hunters in Europe and 30% of them travel outside their own country to other hunting sites. And just what we're all saying, so there are hunters in our area who don't have to comply with these provisions that we're predicting by this law. We also said that the basic objective of all the directives is what it says in your proposal, means to prevent illegal arms trafficking. Unfortunately, the proposal further states that binding regulations are being transposed. Then some standards are mentioned, so we manipulate the public often because we have freedom, because it asks us to define different concepts and it doesn't say that we have to define them. And unfortunately, in this law, we're introducing new concepts that we don't define at all, so I definitely agree that we're playing a bigger Catholic than the Pope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27099	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27100	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague here I agree that we should not be a stepmother, there is no need. As far as the law is concerned, I didn't understand, so please just explain better what it means for a foreign hunter in Croatia, which means for a Croatian hunter outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. You have about 60,000 and more hunters, and we have also recently our Olympic champion Glasnovic. As far as shooting is concerned. And now you know what's more peripate when you're going out. You must have international permission. It's one bigger license than these are ours. You sign in, and you go with it. And now I'm asking you, did you mean when we have a weapon so we service it outside the border of the Republic of Croatia it also exists as hunters or when we might be buying ammunition or some kind of weapon off-limits? Did you mean that part of the legislation? That part of you I didn't realize, so I'd just like to ask you to explain if this means potentially when our fellow hunter from Italy comes to the Republic of Italy that the laws of Italy apply to him and hunts here in terms of those five years or did you think of something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27101	Here will be answered by a distinguished representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27102	Thank you very much. My colleague Mikulić, therefore, has a principle that applies in all EU legislation, always applies legislation that applies in the country of origin, is valid here and is valid when you go out. This means, for Croatian hunters, what is worth in our country and applies to them when they hunt in Italy and Germany, and the Germans and the Italians what they have, which is worth there, is worth there. Maybe that's when he might be in some other stuff. So we've had it I can make a comparison when it comes to, say, expert tests in construction. Those expert exams in construction when they're worth it, if you're going out, you have to have proof that you passed it. For example, there is no expert exam in the Netherlands at all, a Dutchman working with us under conditions that are there without a professional examination, so that is the principle of all EU rules to apply your own legislation and there is no possibility that another country will seek you if its legislation is stricter. So I guess I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27103	Thank you. The replica was also sought by the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, Mrak Taritash, you were talking about this law as if it were a law on the legalization of weapons or a law on weapons that is illegal in somebody's possession. There's nothing like that in that law. So this is the Law on the procurement and registration of weapons of citizens and is clearly classified through certain segments that speak of which weapons citizens can acquire as hunters, as shooters or as personal protection through A, B, C or D categories of weapons that are even electroshockers placed in the D category. So I don't think this law can regulate the illegal arms market or illegal weapons possession. There is the possibility of legalising weapons that are now owned by these categories, and that's what's good, that whenever a citizen comes alone to register or get a license and has a health certificate. So we can't talk about what's illegal when you're holding a weapon illegally, when it's obtained illegally, that's why legal sanctions are defined by other laws, not this law. ... counterpart Djujic also mixed up certain things that do not belong in this law at all. So I was going to say that there is no need to deal with it, this law is only about the purchase and registration of weapons to citizens through these four categories that they can illustrate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27105	Anka's distinguished representative, Mr. Dark Taritash, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27106	Well, my colleague Djakic usually, when I speak, I try very clearly to say that he understands me. I'm letting you know that maybe I didn't get along so well on this subject. No doubt I said what law it was, no doubt I was talking about the fact that a much bigger problem was illegal weapons. And maybe you're confused by one sentence that I said that if we're being re-restrictive, then we might find that people who, in accordance with the law, are really trying to do everything legally, that we're partially letting them go and being illegal about it. So it was absolutely clear what the subject was, what the attitude was and what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27107	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the time will be shared by the esteemed Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric and Marko Sladoljev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27108	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected State Secretary, fellow MPs. On behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists, I would like to refer to the already submitted proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens. In particular, when the applicable Law on Weapons and the applicable Law on Explosive Substances intertwines these two laws in parts regulating the business of economic operators, it has been decided that they will regulate a specific Law on Explosive Substances and the production and transport of weapons which would bring these two areas together as a result of simpler application and better control of the implementation. Provisions under the applicable arms law relating to the transport and manufacture of weapons, possession of arms, repair and processing of weapons, transport of weapons and testing and marking of firearms and civilian firearms with the necessary changes and additions will be taken over by the Proposal for a law on explosive substances, as well as by the production and transport of weapons. In order to contain only provisions governing the procurement and registration of arms supplied by citizens for civil use, the use of these weapons and ammunition proceedings in the event of the death of gun owners, the circumstances under which arms and ammunition are taken from citizens and the carrying of weapons across the state border, and as those provisions also need to be partially amended and supplemented by the scope of the material to be exempted and amended by the Arms Act, it is proposed to adopt a new law whose name will be the law on the acquisition and registration of arms of citizens. According to this proposal, all types of firearms listed in the directive on the control, supply and possession of weapons are classified in two categories, in category A, in which firearms have been classified, and in Directive B, in which there remains a weapon, as well as category C and D, in which the weapons that have been classified after the procurement must be declared to the competent police authority and category D for which they do not have to be reported unless they go beyond the state border. The age limit for the supply of arms is 21 years with the exception of the police officers of the MUP, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Judicial Police and other state authorities and security guards who are authorised to hold and carry arms under special regulations, members of the Sports Shooting Organization who are actively competing in shooting and persons with a hunting test capable of obtaining weapons from 18 years of age. When prescribing the general conditions that must be met for the supply of arms as one of the conditions, there is also a reasonable reason for the supply of weapons, as it also states as a condition for the Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons. For a person who has a valid arms list that has previously been obtained on the basis of an authorisation issued for the supply of arms in each of the following requests for authorisation for the supply of weapons, a procedure for the establishment of the general and specific conditions necessary for the possession of weapons shall not be carried out. The procedure for establishing general and specific conditions other than health conditions will not be implemented even when the arms list is extended. This proposal for a law makes it more clear that, without the right to compensation, the confiscation of weapons established in the registration procedure has not been examined and marked in accordance with the regulations or cannot be proved to be of origin as well as the weapons for which the registration procedure finds it technically incorrect and that it is not possible to train it for safe use. The Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens regulates issues relating to the supply and registration of arms of citizens, as long as the supply of weapons for the purposes of legal persons and activities related to weapons, production, transport, repair and repair of weapons, the management of civil shooting sites is regulated by the Law on Explosive Substances and Production and Transport of Weapons, which is also in the procedure of adoption. The relevant Arms Act does not contain a provision stating who in the area of the Republic of Croatia can own weapons, and this provision is also added to the proposal for a Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens. The proposal for a law, as well as the applicable law, particularly highlighted a safeguard for domestic violence as an obstacle to the supply of arms, since that safeguard measure can also be imposed on its own without criminal sanctions imposed in an infringement procedure. This provision of the bill stipulates that authorised medical institutions carrying out medical examinations to determine the medical capacity for the possession of weapons must, in addition to the opinion of the selected primary healthcare doctor, obtain the opinion of the selected medical specialist psychiatrist. In this way, a specialist psychiatrist at an authorised health institution will have better insight into the mental state of the Croatian defender because he will also get the opinion of the selected psychiatrist who follows the mental state of the Croatian defender over a long period of time. It is also the paper in the bill of law in relation to the applicable law that any subsequent request for the authorisation of the supply of weapons by a person who already has a valid gun gun list that has previously been obtained on the basis of an authorisation for the purchase of a weapon will not be subject to field checks by police officers because the checks carried out in the first supply of the weapon have been identified as to what kind of person it is and whether it is a conflict person who is in occasional or permanent conflicts with the hosts or the environment in which he lives. Finally, I would also like to say that our legislation has shown itself well in this case and that there is no need for further liberalisation but not too restrictive. Namely, the ministry will respect all those amendments to all articles that went into a more restrictive relationship with individuals of arms, so persons who legally and in a way possess weapons, although in this case by changing the existing law on a more restrictive relationship, are not considered to be considered to be a matter of medical examination because it is not considered a more restrictive relationship since it is an assessment of the psycho-physical capacity of an individual and the key role in deciding whether a person can own a weapon is precisely a specialist in medical work, because only they provide an objective assessment of the individual's psycho-physical ability to carry weapons, drive management or other special conditions. And we heard that only, that we only have four applications from family medical doctors who reported a change in the condition of people who own weapons. Well, it's not like we can say that out of so many thousands of people who have, they own weapons in a legal way that only four people have changed their health status. So that's incorrect because doctors and justifiably themselves have a reason to resent exactly that application, which is that they probably think for themselves about what kind of situation we would be in when a person who legally has a weapon just because of your application essentially loses that possibility. What we want to point out is that exactly our bill is not for any disarmament of the Republic of Croatia as well as against persons legally owned by weapons. What we want is very simple, which is that the gun owner is a capable person with a legal weapon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27109	Thank you. Here will continue the esteemed representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I will present this law that has caused less dispute, the Explosive Substances Act, and the production and transport of weapons. What is important to note is that the purpose of this law is to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the new EU Directive on the placing of explosive substances on the market. The deadline for the transposition of this Directive into EU Member States' national legislation was 20 April 2016. So we are very late to transpose the directive, which is why the European Commission has initiated the procedure for breach of EU law. Furthermore, in addition to the obligation to comply with our legislation with the directive, the purpose of adopting this law is to improve the control of explosive substances, which is why provisions are transposed into this law and the now applicable Law on the transport of dangerous substances relating to the transport of explosive substances. The disorder of this area is a major problem for legal persons involved in the activities and manufacture of weapons and it is a very important export branch of our economy. In addition to the economic importance here, it should certainly be noted that, because of the lack of regulation, it is not possible to fully monitor the production and transport of weapons of category A, which is an unacceptable situation for security reasons. In addition to the aforementioned transposition of the Act on the Transport of Dangerous Substances relating to the transport of explosive substances, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. This law transposes the provisions of the act of the now applicable Weapons Act relating to the production and transport of weapons or to the transfer of safety conditions of the procedures that companies must comply with in the production and transport of weapons. This unification of regulation is necessary because of the related nature of the area of production and transport of explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons. In fact, the present situation when the production and transport of weapons was regulated by one law, the Law on Weapons and the Production and Transport of Explosive Substances by other law of the Explosive Substances Act made it very difficult for companies engaged in those activities. In addition to the simpler business of companies, the unifying of the production and transport of explosive substances and weapons into one law ensures better control of explosive substances and weapons, which is very important from the point of view of safety. This law also creates a legal framework for the adoption of rules on the appearance of documents and the way information is exchanged with EU Member States on the transfer of explosive substances within the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27111	Thank you. We have if you thought we would pass without the replica we have a replica and this on the presentation of the distinguished colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, has a replica of the respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27112	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Ninčević, I wanted to replicate. So, you reiterated the reasoning of the law that the fundamental intensity of this law is the safety of citizens, so those who possess weapons, those who do not possess it, those who would like to own it. You have stressed again and it is good to hear that during both this debate and the second reading that some things will still be applied to make the procedure simpler, so as not to put more pressure on especially hunters and especially others. And what I wanted to point out is not true, we now have the impression that a rigorous law is being passed, and so far we have had a liberal law. No, this law that we have is also very rigorous and according to the consequences of the present-day gun owners, which in my opinion is not bad. But sometimes in practice, I'm only going to give two examples. Sometimes in practice it can be very bad. A man who wasn't even present, members of his family gave a child, a granddaughter, to take a picture during his birthday with a gun. It's posted on Facebook. The police came, took all the weapons. Another example where a man with an airarm shot, there was an injury. He was also deprived of all the firearms he had. So it's not true that so far the law is very liberal, so it's rigorous and all today's gun owners have real control and all those measures that would not endanger both their health and their environment. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27113	Thank you. The distinguished representative Ninčević-Lesandric will respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27114	My colleague Tomislav, I agree with you, and that's exactly what I wanted to point out earlier that with all this law has gone into some sort of, I feel like when people, here I'm going to say exactly what my colleague Bunjac is saying when he read the article that he doesn't understand what he's read at all. So, he's just earlier on saying that this law has to put an anti-lock door in order for a man to own a weapon that isn't true. So this same article says that a person has to have a safe, unless there's a safe, another option is that if there's no safe, there's got to be a back door in the apartment. So the law has given one option before, and now it has two. So the whole way he understands, that is, the way he wants to understand the law is to blame. So, of course you're not going to harm hunters, and I'm the first member of the hunting alliance. So I'm a hunter and I'm the daughter of one of the biggest collectors in the country. But I just don't understand why such an approach. That's basically what we've been saying all along. Of course there have been objections and of course there will be amendments and of course they will be discussed, that everything that stands will be respected. That was never a problem at least when it came to the MOST club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27115	Thank you. Now we're going to move on to individual debates that have quite a number. She will be the first to be the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27116	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, we all agree that this has to go in two readings and I can't understand how it occurred to someone that this law could be passed by emergency procedure because this law is too important. So this isn't the law on cleaning agents, this isn't the broom law, this is the Arms Act. Guns hurt and kill. A weapon like the secretary of state rightly said dangerous. And it's not as dangerous as my colleague Sanader says as electricity, so he says the current is dangerous. Well, yeah, only the current drives the machines, and the weapons trigger the wars. The current lights up, and the weapon shuts down people's lives. So it would be about like comparing Samuel Colt to the inventor of the modern gun and Nikola Tesla, even if he's from Sanader too. It discussed whether this law was restrictive or liberal. I don't think he's restrictive or liberal, and if he were me, he'd be more restrictive. It is said that every five years what is and under the applicable law should be checked for the medical ability of someone to have a license to carry a weapon. Well, of course you should. Did any of you ever hear of anyone getting paranoid in 48 years, for example? He's got a man's obsession with persecution, and he's got a weapon and he hasn't always been sick. He got sick at 48. So is he dangerous or harmless to anyone of common sense? Well, of course you have to check it out, so how different. I don't think anyone diagnosed with any mental illness should have a license to carry a weapon or drive a motor vehicle, because it's a danger to society. And if we introduce it as a rule here in law, whoever suffers from any mental illness, and not now that the doctor assesses whether he is suffering enough, then, as instructed by the Defense Minister, approves or not. He can't carry a gun, he can't get a license to carry a gun. I am convinced that the number of people suffering from PTSD would have decreased significantly, significantly. They would have healed in large numbers. What weapon? Well, not whoever wants a weapon, who likes a weapon. Well, society must strive to keep as few weapons in the community as possible, not as much as possible. What weapon? The one who needs a weapon. And who needs it? He needs the army, he needs the police, he needs the guards, he needs the hunters, he needs personal protection. For personal protection only when there's no other option. If I feel threatened by anyone, it's up to me to go to the police, because cops have the right to carry guns, and it's my right to pay taxes to expect the police to protect me, not that I have to protect myself from the police. For personal protection to whom? Yeah, someone who lives alone. Somewhere on a hill, there's no one around. He can have a bear, a wolf somewhere in his face. Yeah, to him yeah, to him for personal protection. He's not by nature a hunter at all, but he needs it. To someone who lives in the city, why would he need a weapon for personal protection? Well, call the police and the police will be here for a minute and a half and they'll protect him. Who needs it? He needs athletes. What about the trophy weapon? Well, of course, the trophy weapon, the trophy weapon, yes, but to disable it if it wasn't for use, that no one could be killed or wounded, so the man kept it as a memory. He was wearing it in the war and now he's got it, so put it out, watch it, show it, here's my war trophy. The old collector's weapon, yes, of course, but it's also completely incapacitated in a way that can't be re-enabled. Yes, for showing it, it will not destroy it, so we will not set it on fire, so we will not disintegrate it. One category of deputy that wasn't even worked out here in law, which would fall under this category C, that's a big weapon, a weapon used in the theater. They have a big problem with it, it belongs to this category C. There's only one article about it, and it's a weapon that must look like a right, you have to hear a shot like it's right, you have to blow a flame like it's a shot fired, and it's got to be completely harmless. That doesn't matter so much in the film industry because they have pyrotechnics who do it. But the theaters used to have guns, but he's got to hire a regular man, he's got to pay him a salary to deal with. And when such a single weapon will be used in the play, maybe every six, seven years. Therefore, this should solve what kind of weapon must be in that C category, must be bought and reported to the police, of course, that the theatre has which type must be harmless, must be examined, the needle must be removed or already. Well, get it done, describe it, that's what experts are describing, it's not my place to describe. And I agree with what's being said on behalf of the club, there's very little talk or nothing about illegal weapons, and that's the biggest problem. The scheduled sentence, please, is the only one in that article 72 mentioned from five thousand to fifty thousand kuna or 45 days in prison. And the biggest punishment that law enforcement can give is 90 days in prison. So for some other act, there can be more severe punishment than for illegal weapons possession. Well, forgive me, but it's a paradox. The first illegal possession of arms and trade in those weapons, selling or buying those weapons should not fall within the sphere of crime but rather in the sphere of criminal responsibility and serious criminal offences for which the sentence of five years of imprisonment has been prevented. So you sell the gun or buy it when you know that if you find a gun in your house, you'll go to jail for five years. Three times we've extended the deadline, three times to hand over illegal weapons, not yet handed over without punishment. Of course, hand him over and no sanctions will be imposed against you. Think about it, let's reward them, let's give them a reward. Buying out illegal weapons, the state should set up a trust to buy out illegal weapons and introduce a deadline for six months, and after that, if you find a weapon, then you'll go to jail for two years, if you own an illegal weapon and trade with it. Then it would be a measure, a serious measure to get rid of the illegal weapons that I agree with Djujic poses the greatest danger. But we, as a society, must agree whether we will be a society that will cultivate a weapons cult or which weapons will be regarded as one necessary means of defence of freedom, state, freedom of citizens, the protection of their lives, the efficiency of the police, or we will turn into one society that so legalises, allow anyone or make it easier for everyone or allow everyone to come into possession of weapons and pose a danger to each other. I'm not for that kind of company, I'm not and I'm sure until the second reading you can work this out, you can improve this, and we can work out such a better and safer society together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27117	Thank you very much. The next debate is that of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27118	Dear Vice President, State Secretary and Associates. Here I am in more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27119	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We had two replicas. The first is the honourable representative of Sanader, and the second is the honourable representative of Vučetic. My bad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27120	Thank you, Vice President. Sir, I still don't think guns are dangerous. The weapon is dangerous in the hands of a lunatic, a patient, a dangerous illegal weapon, a dangerous weapon in the hands of an ignorant. And that's why I gave that comparison to the power but that wasn't the reason for the insult. And at Sanader's too. What does that mean, too much? To a different opinion. Is that democracy? You're afraid of guns, obviously you have some youth stress, old age. ... I'm saying you're obviously having some kind of gun stress because you're saying if we make weapons possible, then they're a danger to others. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why is it a danger? Do hunters pose a danger to others? People who have a legal license for weapons, people who passed hunting exams, who have confirmation from the official authorities that they know how to handle guns. And in that sense, it was my comparison with both the electricity and the car, everything is dangerous, everything can cause danger to human beings and the environment. Someone gets sick at 48, someone's been sick since birth, but it's not all a reason to insult them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27121	The honourable representative Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27122	Guns are not only dangerous in the hands of lunatics and patients as you say. I read the articles in the Black Chronicle as you did that the child came to visit his father's weapon and killed himself or his sister, and that child is neither mad nor sick. Guns are dangerous, you understand that, Mr. Sanader, it's dangerous always. You're saying why I feel guns as a danger. Well, because I read articles like that. One who owns a weapon always or can come into a situation to use it. People get into a fight at the pub. One of them says I'm going home to get the AK and I'm going to kill you all. He's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, If he hadn't had a Kalashnikov, he would have overcome his anger in some other way. Maybe he'd fight, maybe he'd beat someone up or someone would beat him up, but he wouldn't shut down five lives. He did it because he had a chance to do it and he had a chance because he owned a weapon. And that's why I think weapons are dangerous and that we need to do everything a society can, but just to understand what you don't understand, Mr. Sanader, that weapons are dangerous and that we need to put them under control as much control as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27123	Thank you. Dear Representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27124	I'd agree with you to the extent that we're starting from the fact that the arms debate is only vertical if we go from man to weapon and not from weapon to man because when we define reality from man then we'll never forget that it's the fundamental identity of being who... at a human level and it's called human that then human beings will always try to protect it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the basic definition of man is that he is a hunter, warrior and a gunman then man ceases to be a homo ludens who plays with weapons as a hunter but plays as a man and then becomes a danger in the human world, so that, in the light of this debate, he will agree that weapons are a danger if the starting point is but there is no danger if man is a starting point and in determining man and weapon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27125	Dear Representative Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27126	The only thing I can wish my dear colleague for this sentence to be a motto to the ministry in making second reading of the law, to come from the fact that this law must be a law on the protection of a man, a law for the benefit of a man, not a law for the benefit of a weapon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27127	Thank you. The individual debate will now be held by distinguished MP Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27128	I will take the right to speak on behalf of 70,000 members of hunting companies in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia who own these 127 thousand pieces of weapons in their debate. I will take the right to speak of the Croatian Hunting Union delivering amendments back to last year in the fifth month, that it was then required to enter the second reading, that this law does not go according to emergency procedure, that now suddenly it has come up again in the emergency procedure and therefore I am sharply on the side of all of my club that we discussed today to go to the second reading. When we look at this law and what it means is a weapon for those who legally own it that are members of associations, clubs, organizations that deal with it and who are some kind of tool. If we go to two extremes about what the gun was just before, I recently watched some kind of documentary show, so one of the warriors no longer knows what side they were talking about burning down houses, so they left a butane bottle on the ground floor, and they lit candles on the floor, and then after an hour, everything flew into thin air. A recent case of a truck that killed 37 people, trampling in France, so here we're talking about two completely different things. We are talking about something that is legal, something that is legal and we are talking about the regulations and directives of the European Union, we are talking about what has lasted for hundreds of years and has never been outside the law in those 125 years of the existence of the Croatian Hunting Union that members of the Croatian Hunting Union have laid down and that they have made orderly requests for the purchase of weapons, that they have been checked by former SUPs, the MUPs, you no longer know what is called, that control of them is practically daily but not only of the institutions of this kind that refer to the Ministry and the law but also the organisations and members of these organisations themselves through their statutes, the courts, the assembly, the elections of democracy within these societies, and these are the institutions themselves. And when we talk about problems relating to the supply of this weapon and what the Croatian Hunting Union has indicated, what the shooting alliance shows, it points to some illogicalness why imposing stricter rules on our citizens than other citizens of the European Union, why being more rigorous in that part when we know that by some 2,000 years when some health checks have been introduced, this introduction of health checks has not changed anything in a statistical sense. So there will always be some events, some abuses. There's always a possibility that with some kind of legal weapon, you can do something that shouldn't be done, but it's not a problem in that part. Because something could happen at any moment to someone, but the problem is exactly what I've been talking about here all along in illegal weapons, in that weapon that's buried somewhere, that's hidden somewhere, that someone's going to be doing with it some kind of crime and that no one has any record of that weapon. For my weapons, for the arms of Dragica, Ivana, Anta Sanader and the MUP and the state and everyone knows. Why some sort of solution? Here is the Croatian Hunting Union, in its one amendment, has moved to delete Article 16. Why not delete it when it's completely rational and normal? What does this article prescribe? This article provides for a complete and multi-page health care facility that will examine the health capacity of the applicant for, yes. If we look at what it says here, it's just ridiculous. It's not the subject of this law at all. I welcome the part about simplifying the procedure for the purchase of other weapons. So if you've met all the criteria and checks and health skills in the first weapon, and you already have one weapon of that kind of weapon. If you have a smooth pipe now you're getting a cartoon because you need to use it to carry out your activities, I'm talking again about hunting activity, then it's perfectly rational and it's normal that you put it into this law and I welcome it. If there was no need to carry out any more tests, some kind of investigation, in the neighborhood to ask who he is and how he is, and therefore he's going into something that's out of the domain of today's social order, that police officers are going around the neighborhood and I don't know Sasa Djujic in Novi Vinodolski and they're asking him what he is, so they can give him the guns. Here's an example. I think these are some things that the Croatian Hunting Union should not go into at all. The shooting alliance warns of that. When we talk about children, about young people who join some associations, associations that are shooting clubs. I've got it in my field, and I know he's got the interest of a minor to deal with that kind of shooting sport of flying targets. My city is into it and the county has invested over a million kunas in the shooting range, in those target bouncers, in helping supply and ammunition and weapons for that shooting range because it's a sport. Luke and arrow, spear. I mean, when we talk about something that's a means, then I can agree with what the predecessors just said. It's not a weapon problem, it's the one he's got. And that's the problem who has it we've solved. We've solved it in a way that he's satisfied the procedure, that he's passed some kind of test, that he's trained to handle these weapons, because he can't give it to someone who hasn't been trained, that he had the object of ballistics on some kind of hunting test, so he knows what it's about and what the danger it is, that there's a crate or a closet or that anti-break door that you've prescribed where he has to keep them. But the intensity of the EU directive will repeat that, what they write, write, enable legal production, sales and possession of firearms and relief. And suspending criminal chains and deterring illegal use, increasing pressure on criminal markets, curbing illegal arms trafficking, building better intelligence systems. That's the meaning of this directive that you call upon when we go into the procedure of passing this law. And I'm still asking myself why an emergency procedure? Why don't you listen to everything? Listen to those involved – Croatian Shooting Union, Croatian Hunting Union. We're talking about what can happen to a weapon, what can happen to a car, a truck, what can happen in the mountains, what can happen to the cold weapons that everyone owns from us in the drawer, in the kitchen. I mean, they're mixed pots, and there's a commitment, and I am in favour of prescribing a medical examination in the supply of weapons. The obligation to report the chosen physician, the obligation to connect the selected physician to the MUP, or police administration in the area where he lives, and to carry out some sort of permanent control. What does a review mean 5 years or 10 years? What can happen after six months after someone has been examined? What Mr. Stazic mentioned could then go crazy and do something. But if we're talking about the means someone deals with, to perform sports, then it's that I'm not talking about other laws that go to harm hunters about a savage being declared a dangerous asset. So it's the responsibility to run into a gamer's hunting company and bear the costs. I mean crazy. Hunters, the Croatian Hunting Union is looking for nothing but equality with other EU citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27129	Thank you. And we have replicas on your exhibit. She is the first to be the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27130	Dear colleague Klaric, I didn't mean to talk about hunters, because I really don't think I'm a hunter, I don't have a passion for it, but I appreciate hunters. I appreciate the hunters for knowing that they spend more time protecting savages, feeding game, helping game than hunting, shooting savages. I have many friends who are hunters and they do not pose a social danger to that I'm sure because I haven't read that the hunter took his hunting rifle and killed someone. There's been a hunting accident, they shoot each other because they think it's a rabbit, but it's, it's an accident, I wasn't talking about athletes, and that's where I'd stand up for a little loose. With us children are allowed to start dealing with 11 years of age, in other countries with 9 shootings. Well, let's cut it down, so it's a sport. Why? Well, because sooner or later they'll gain competence, or else these others will always be better than them. So why should we be better, so why shouldn't our children be better? It's completely under control. I wasn't talking about the dangers when I was talking about actors because they don't pose danger, but let's set it up and that they can use the theatre plays of weapons and that it looks convincing. But why must we be there, perhaps even more stringent than the European Union? Because we've got a problem, we've got a problem, we've had a war of unhappy, so we've got a residual weapon since World War II, let alone Homeland. We got him, they don't have him, and we need to be aware of that danger. We've got that trophy weapon. Which Djujic is a hunter, he passed a hunting test but has no weapons. But I agree with him asking his neighbors if he'd ask for weapons as much as they think of them. If they came to me, I'd say give him a weapon, Sasa Djujic is harmless.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27131	Thank you. The distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27132	Comrade Stazic, believe me, every time I personally, my friends, my colleagues put a gun on our shoulders and go up to the mountain we are very aware of what can happen to us and we have taken the risk that something might happen to us, as can happen to those who are climbing the Himalayas to be buried by an avalanche, which I am aware of, and I have taken the right to use. But it's my decision as a decision by someone to engage in shooting and shoot clay pigeons or some kind of target on a sniper. And it's really here to talk about the legal part, not to tell the illegal part you're talking about, and we're chasing all the pots together, so crime happens with illegal weapons. The illegal weapons he has on all sides are estimated to be somewhere around 500 thousand even pieces, I don't know how credible that data is, since it's been brought out by the UN there in the '90s, there's probably been a little less of a series of gun-good-bye actions and everything else, but the problem is, and let's focus on how it's all of us together to fight that there isn't one of us. But let's not touch those rights of people who end up spending a lot of money on their own, let's just say "dush," my pleasure without talking about the work that these societies and these people are investing in hunting sites, especially now in winter months, they're sinking and tons of food are being brought out. During the summer, the name in the Croatian Hunting Union and in all hunting societies, their statutes "creation, protection" and "hunting" comes only in the end, and we all need to understand and be aware and a little more down to that level of some kind of satisfaction in the form of recognition of their activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27133	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27134	Yeah, as far as Sasha's concerned, don't give him any weapons, but with the keyboard careful. So, you mentioned to your colleague Klaric your determination that the law goes into regular procedure. I'm usually watching, twice in the two convocations of the Parliament managed to get into an emergency procedure, not by the Holy Spirit, so twice the parliamentary majority on the government's proposal, with opposition from the opposition, voted to go into emergency procedures and twice after that she said she was going to regular procedure. I think the key question of this law is what my colleague Grumoja said in a replica to someone, and that's what we are for liberalisation or for an even more restrictive law, and there should have been a debate in the first reading. This is how it turns out that all the amendments that the Croatian Hunting Union sent to a large number of clubs were cooked and that only then we referred to them and began to think about what we voted at the beginning of the emergency procedure. How long is this actually a long story on several fronts shows the fact that this law was at a public debate in January 2015 while our government was in similar content. Afterwards, he did not go into parliamentary procedure, so the second government came and sent a similar law to the emergency procedure that the parliamentary majority voted for, held the debate, returned to the regular procedure to send the third government and the same law to the emergency procedure, and the third assembly of parliament returned the law to the regular procedure. I think that's enough to say that it's time for you to approach the proposal a little more seriously and not send it to the government before you have a wide debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27135	Thank you. A colleague, Klaric, has an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27136	I fully agree with you in that section that it was not necessary to do so, among other things, because I was very keen in my club when we discussed it I was in favour of going to regular procedure because it still needs to be talked about and agreed on because it is not only that the Croatian Hunting Union influenced it but rather a slightly wider circle of people, including the Shooting Union and all those who actively deal with it. And you're absolutely right when you're now implying to me a message to the MUP that before it puts the law in the process, we agree all of those views together, especially for the reasons that you said it was exactly what you said, and you know well when your government was doing so, and this first part of last year in 5, 6. I mean, this right now. I think that finally after this debate where we are a little bit and arduous I suppose we will reach a final solution for both the Croatian Hunting Union and the Shooting Union, where we will in some way enable all those weapons owners who legally possess it to have their weapons in a easier, more liberal way, and to be more restrictive towards all those who possess it illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27137	Thank you very much. The individual debate will now be held by distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27138	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, the theme is the Arms Act and what I'd like to say first is that it doesn't kill guns, it kills people. Weapons, so one knife can be used to cut tomatoes, and it can also be used for cold-blooded murder. I'd like to say that in the last terrorist attacks, even the weapon wasn't actually used. What was used? A truck. In Nice, a man killed 80 people with a truck. It's a similar thing in Berlin. You have a case in Oklahoma City when Timothy McQuy with a car bomb that was essentially a truck full of fertilisers, artificial fertilisers, because when an artificial fertiliser mixes with gasoline or diesel, there's an explosive mixture that even caused and let's say an earthquake in Oklahoma in the city itself. When it went down, he killed 163 people. And what's going on? All the time, the weapon is depicted as a “grandmother horn. ” However, restrictive arms laws do not solve the problem. Great Britain, when faced with terrorism, with IRA terrorism, then brought in the most restrictive law on illegal weapons, not legal weapons, because people involved in crime will not go to law enforcement. Because a legal weapon can be easily found, can be traced to it. And cut the story short. The dragon's penalties for possession of illegal weapons were, in fact, all suspicious people were taken to prison. You could've gotten for the gun you had without a permit for 10 years in prison. And for that very reason, the English police Bobby didn't even need guns for a long time, because the simply weapon was removed from the street. Someone will say, again, that the weapons of danger, however, in Switzerland, all the Swiss citizens who passed the military deadline on their way out of the army get a gift from the state's automatic rifle and keep that automatic rifle at home. And you will see that there is no armed violence in Switzerland. It doesn't mean now that a man has a gun and now he goes down the road and shoots or shoots neighbors, etc. What do I mean by that? It is that the Arms Act should be more liberal. What does that mean? That would mean to me that red tape about getting guns should be simpler, to watch if a man is normal and if he is, a man is free to carry a weapon. But we often have cases like in the river when a man, I think, even with a legal weapon killed someone. Which will say that there are a lot of people in my opinion who shouldn't have legal weapons or people who shouldn't have had it as well as that general Corrade who killed people in the woods, etc. Suma sumarum, those who are not allowed to have weapons should not be allowed to have weapons regardless of the generals and members of the HDZ, etc. If I'm not mistaken, there was even one HDZ representative who threatened to use a gun in Virovitica. I read it somewhere in the current session, which often called me for violence. I mean, if the law were strictly applied to those who, if they had a license to hold guns, and they carry guns around and threaten, if they were given adequate penalties for such things, means years of prison sentences, you would immediately solve the problem of those who possess illegal weapons, and those who possess legal penalties would think very well about how they would treat them. And as for home, the right to self-defense is, in my opinion, a fundamental human right, and everyone should have the right to protect their own home. Home is the last thing I'd say, the last line of defense is yes. And this story about you having to have a doorway in the room where you keep your guns, so that's crazy. That's crazy to me, because here I am asking you in the House, so which one of you locks the door all over your house, who? Well, no one in their right mind does that. I don't know, and now even if a man had a front door, what would he go to unlock and lock the bedroom every day? I mean, be careful not even says the law has to have a locked door when the police come in, but it's just that the doors are there. He doesn't even have a key to this. It could have a simple anti-lock door. Now, of course, I point to illogicality, but I'm afraid the legislator won't hear me, he won't want to hear me. But I hope again that he will take to the heart of my remark, that is, once Jesus said when he spoke, he says “my words do not penetrate into you. ” I hope my words break through, that at least they will soften up on this issue with the anti-invasion door. And in the end, you have a police officer with an official gun to rob a bank. It was in Spain, I remember Erste's bank office. You have a police officer who kills a woman with his official weapon. Is it a wrong weapon, or is it a man's fault? I think he's a guilty man, because even if that cop didn't have an official weapon, he'd get illegal. So, I guess I'm saying that the weapon again is portrayed as a grandma horn, and the real grandma horns are bad people. A real bogeyman is a state that doesn't allow illegal weapons owners to legalize him. Because you have a lot of people with illegal weapons and they know they can't legalize it, but they're not violent people, they're not people who trade guns. They don't keep him home just in case. And I'm supposed to let those people hold that weapon, but to sign up, to know that he has a weapon man. Well, he won't be walking with Kalashnikov on the road now. I'm talking about Switzerland. And if one Switzerland has a system where people can own a long weapon, that is, to sum up the whole story like this. In order for weapons to be owned without a problem, there would have to be a legal system that would punish those who illegally possess it and make problems with it, and we do not currently have a functioning legal system. And for that reason, the legislator, I think, is desperate for more restrictive measures against weapons. If the legal system worked, neither would the people who killed be free. What you say with 500 criminal charges or I don't know how many convictions a man doesn't know what he's done, not a hundred times or five hundred times. You have a situation where a man who's five hundred times been taken away from him I don't know his driver's license or was found without a driver's license he's still driving the car. It's not because then they say what kind of man it is. Well, it's not man's fault, it's the legal system that doesn't work. But in order to solve the problem of the legal system, a legal state, rule of law and law should be established, and it is clear that, unfortunately, the ruling majority, both today and yesterday, and probably tomorrow, in my opinion, and that is what the citizens themselves see, has no intention of doing. And the only thing that works explicitly in this country under quotes are the performances, there's the legislator let's say he was thorough what to the last June. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27139	Thank you. We have a replica of the distinguished representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27140	Comrade Pernar, please don't be a colleague of Bunjac, read the articles of the law. It's a nice writing to you. It says: “Weapon and ammunition shall not be kept in a separate room with the anti-region door referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article if its owner owns a safe, metal cabinet or something like that.” And when we are at a locked door and it is written to you in law, so Article 34 says, “In a separate room with an anti-invasion door in such a way that they are not available to the person who is not authorized to own it.” So we are also giving you the possibility that this door should not be locked with the key, you can cement them as far as we are concerned, but are not allowed to be available, so they are closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27141	Here will be answered by the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27142	And look, I'll say it like this. You can fight anyone but your own wife, your own family members. And here's the suspicion of family members. I guarantee you that there is no such protection measure, there is no protection measure in me that can prevent any of the people in the house from coming to arms, and even if there is no safe, and even if there is a front door, even if there is a door against the door, I guarantee you that a woman will be able to reach that weapon. I guarantee it. So it's all a farce to me. I understand that when a man carries a weapon with him that must be an empty frame, I understand that. But I say this story with the safe or as an alternative, like if there's no safe, you can have a doorway in the bedroom. Well, the door would rather be protected from a mistress than to protect access to a weapon, or whatever. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27143	Thank you very much. You'll probably work it out when we talk about gender equality, the Law on Gender Equality. But the next individual debate was attended by a distinguished representative, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27144	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President, thank you to the proposing representatives. I'd say that through this debate, there's always something on your face, the person of the proposer, and there's some sort of surprise on ours. We're always surprised at something, even though I have to admit that we have the same sense of humor, so when a colleague talks, we're all laughing in the same voice. You can usually see this surprise because we have different attitudes and that's okay, and that's why this debate takes so long, because we keep arguing. But I think that we all here individually aim to reduce the abuse of weapons, to reduce the deaths resulting from the misusing of weapons. You've reported that 20% of these cases were created by a legal weapon and I honestly can't find out where those data were officially published because we have that 2.7, but that's not the most important thing. Even if this law, in my opinion, is restrictively reduced by those 2.7%, I really support it. However, I fear that this will lead us to another extreme, that it will increase that gray zone and that we will have even more illegal weapons and in your proposal, it says that exactly the main goal is to fight illegal weapons. And we're often here in the legal domain, and unfortunately, people get the impression, we're worried about doing everything by the book, so we're asked for even more. And simply, the citizens who come to me are concerned for a reason with the hunters when we know what their contribution to the Homeland War was. But I also deeply believe that disarming this country is definitely not your intensity, and I'm joining, and I believe it's your attitudes. Last year, I personally acquired the terms and conditions and I own a hunting card, and I am most interested in living in these other aspects of environmental protection, feeding, especially this recovery of wild animals, and I thought that this law would help young hunters even more, to define their internship, to define even more in order to unify and educate young hunters and their surveillance, but what happened to one restrictive provision in Article 12 that since the age of 21, hunters could only acquire weapons and in the middle of the debate, you felt the need to refer to the comparison of fellow Tudjman who mentioned that the supply of arms in other countries and, at age 9, so you compared it means that in other countries we have not with 14, but with 16, 18, but I personally did not see, so I believe that you will look back at how many countries they provide, which give people with only 21 years of safety in the area that we have access to, in particular, and in particular, young people who have access to young people who have access to young people who have access to, who have access to, who have access to, and who have access to young people who have access to young businesses, who have access to the safety, who have access to young people, who have access to young people, who have access to their property, who have access to their property, who have access to their property, who have access to the right, who have access to their property, and who have access to their property, and who have access to their property. It is also constantly stressed that binding regulations are being transposed, and I think that people have one reluctance towards these European Union directives precisely because we often manipulate them. So, we're prescribed that we arrange certain items and relationships but I won't stick around for a long time because I've already looked back on that, and I think that we simply have, that the directives don't order us to do anything, so when we defend the law, we have to keep talking about the arguments, and not someone has given us that, and we have to bring it in, we simply get one mistrust, and so we get a mistrust in the medical examinations when you also report that you have to comment on the need to introduce medical examinations every five years. We heard and we know that we have to define a deadline in which we need to rebuild it, but we haven't heard at least me, I don't have enough arguments why it's not ten years, why it's maybe three or even one, it means one narrow deadline or why it's five years. And if you think it's a normal phenomenon that medical examinations are advertised in action, we may soon see when this law is introduced on the Black Egg that we have one action for a medical examination. I support here my colleague and Sanader and Djujic, who have previously compared the weapons, means as a dangerous means to the car, so in this direction I would suggest that the medical examination be identified somehow with this medical examination which is done by the owners like those who have a driver's license and we have heard the arguments that we have a lack of a doctor, so I suggest that gun owners and those who possess a driver's license are made one merger of the procedure and that these medical examinations are carried out in the same procedure because I think we would get one synergy and savings. Here, I'm glad that a colleague who at the same time got a hunting license to tell me that it's working on it, and that's why I believe this whole debate is useful and I know it's been a long time and we may be bored but I believe that we're finally going to get the results of all of this, that it's not just a debate for debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27145	Thank you. Your debate has sparked two replicas, a respected representative of Pernar and Klaric. First honorary representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27146	Here's what I have to say is that I agree with my HDZ colleague and that the biggest problem with illegal weapons is that you can't ban someone from owning it. You'll put the law as if it's forbidden but people still own it, and the penalties I say again that I'm going back to a legal system that doesn't work, are such that even if you have it you won't go to jail safely. And on the other hand, if you want to legally own a weapon, you have to be a member of some shooting club. So if you're not a member of a shooting club or if you don't pay your membership fee a year 500 kuna, you can't actually, or a hunting society, you can't have a weapon. Why only members of hunting and sports societies can have weapons, or be held by people who are otherwise not interested in that membership in those associations, but only join them for that reason, because otherwise they could not have a license for weapons. And then what happens? From these, it's just to say it's cheaper to have an illegal weapon. The police don't come to your attention, you don't have to pay anyone a membership fee, you don't have to say that to worry about these administrative matters. So, if the law were to simplify, it means that we don't have to be the ones who want to have weapons for members of sports and hunting societies, I believe that there should be more legal weapons, and in my opinion the state should allow or legalize the weapons that people of the war have, rather than that. And not to persecute them if they didn't do anything wrong to anyone. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27147	Thank you. She has a desire for an answer, distinguished representative Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27148	Here I thank my colleagues for agreeing, and I believe that after a while we will hear concrete arguments when a colleague agrees that it will be a little more precise, that we will hear some suggestions, let's say for these ideas of yours specifically that we can introduce into the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27149	Thank you. He is now a replica of the respected representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27150	Here, Vice President, I'll be less than two minutes. A little correction in the law is that I've been welcoming 21 years for let's say normal citizens, and 18 years is if he passed a hunting exam like you, so that's okay. But the point is, and that's why I answered the line when the question is being raised restrictively or unrestrainedly. What happens when you do something restrictively increases the possibility of something being illegal or illegal. And that's what you should be afraid of. I think that this law should ultimately go in this direction that as many as we already own, as there are so many weapons in Croatia that as many of these weapons are legally controlled, and that those who legally want to possess it are allowed to have it and that the institutions of the MUP, political administrations have records that they know where that weapon is, how it is used, where it is supplied with ammunition, what amount of ammunition there is and that there is control in that part, and that this illegal part that is essentially the only problem and it should definitely be addressed and referred to by the European Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27151	Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27152	I thank my colleague and I would like to invite the promoter, and I think that you and I can also help them get to know all those hunters who have no weapons and who are under 18 and who are really convinced that maybe we can have a wider discussion or some survey among them that it really takes those under 18 who are members of the hunting societies to own their weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27153	And for the individual debate, the distinguished Ante Sanader appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the point of the law. It should certainly be some kind of improvement. This law is in line with European directives and we Croatian hunters expected that we would now be in line with Europe and experience in Europe what it looks like and how it works with weapons in Europe. So hunting alliances and people tried to translate... German because the Hunting Union is 125 years old and we built our alliance on the traditions of Austro-Hungarian, the whole culture of hunting that exists in Croatia and which is even with us, we dare say, and that is what the representatives of the world organization said with these European most famous alliances. One of these must be the German Hunting Union, so here we are to see the spirit of the law, because here we have been told what is the meaning of the spirit of this law. If the meaning of the spirit of the law is that communist mental system, so that we are afraid because in communism there were Croats who were very dangerous because they always destroyed Yugoslavia and they were dangerous. And if they still had guns, then they were extremely dangerous. And so it was particularly dangerous for the Croats to give weapons. And now if we're thinking like that like that mental circuit, then we should ban everyone from having guns, taking away hunters and all because it's very dangerous. But here's what the Germans say, look at the German law of Article 13 of the German Law: "For hunters who own a hunting card," means every hunter who has a hunting card under the Federal Hunting Law does not check whether they meet the conditions." So, “when going to buy weapons, the holder of a valid identity card within the meaning of this law, according to the Federal Hunting Law, does not need permission to obtain other weapons. Hunters are allowed to carry guns without permission." What we are discussing here – years of age – means this same Article 13 paragraph 8 says: "persons trained for hunting" means those who are trained for hunting "a laugh during education without permission to obtain, possess and carry a hunting weapon if they have completed 14 years of life". We also mentioned 21, 18 that it was dangerous. "And if her guardian is a parent and head of education for a certificate of authority signed by both of them, they have shown their consent to this. A person trained for hunting must wear a certificate of authorisation during education’, that is, for those young people, they must carry a certificate of authorisation. That's what the German laws say. Now we can go back to communism and ban everything and declare everyone who has guns and who thinks they would have guns with very dangerous types and punish it restrictively. But I am sorry that we live in a democratic Croatia that is a member of the European Union and in which we should certainly simplify things if hunters who have a 125-year tradition in Croatia, if they have a hunting organisation with 70,000 members, if there are no excesses, if all the conditions are strictly prescribed so should also be respected. So here, I'm only going to name a few because we've been discussing everything for too long, but just some of them who are adamant. Article 12(5) "Distorted family relations". What are disturbed family relationships? If the husband and wife are separated, then each divorced person has a disturbed family relationship he shouldn't have a weapon. Article 13 persons who have weapons. What about the cops and the soldiers? Some cop who's had a gun his whole life is our best interest in keeping that weapon? He's a preventative savior on the street and I think those people who've had guns all their lives are now returning to the same regulations. Do they have to prove that they're life-threatening or I don't know what? We don't have regular armies anymore, we don't have any training. Here's colleague Pernar talking about Switzerland where every citizen who finishes training gets a gift weapon. We no longer have that, we have 20 thousand or how many soldiers in Croatia are professional and in the event of any aggression on Croatia and we live here in the environment, we see where our neighbors are constantly clinking with guns, where our neighbours are armed. Why can't that cop keep that gun and have it legally and wear it as a right to carry that gun? Or the soldier who's had it his whole life. Well, they're potentially a major security guard for me in Croatia to take that away from them. It's been said so much about health skills, and I'm also a supporter of it, I've spoken through replicas, I'm not going to talk about it any further. You put nice and congratulating this into the law that the primary protection doctor is obliged to report it, and now the dissatisfaction that he didn't talk about. But this is important, Article 18. ‘The existence of specific conditions, the existence of technical knowledge’. So, for category B's hunting weapon, it's by convincing the competent authority to confirm that he passed the hunting test. What does that mean, the competent authority, now we can ask, and then we can interpret by sublegal acts what the competent authority is. I suggest that it be "Convincing, a hunting card with a stamp issued by the Croatian Hunting Union", and that's all settled, it's a competent body. The sports weapons of category B are "confirmed by a roof organisation which keeps records of its members", according to the law. So what is a roof organization, what are we afraid to write? In the debates, we must not mention because the law can be changed, so how will we change the name? But this organization of the Red Cross, the Mountain Service and all other organizations are listed here. We know which is the roof organization, the Croatian shooting alliance. Why are we afraid to put that in law? It's definitely something to put into the law. In addition, the following paragraph is added: ‘For Class B weapons supplied for personal security purposes, a certificate of competence for the possession and management and use of weapons issued by the competent authority.’ Which competent authority? And even more dangerous, "or an institution and another legal person who has the approval of the Ministry of the Interior", that means in private hands that some private individuals are now conducting training. There has been a lot of talk about it, and I support absolutely this extension of the validity of the Armed List, and Article 24 should necessarily be expelled that "the competent body will extend the Armed List with this solution". Okay, first issue of the permit logically, let the weapon be examined, let the stamps and everything else be examined, but the extension of the gun list has no reason to examine the code, number, stamp and everything else on the weapon. I've already said this about the European armed pass. There is no reason that the European armed pass in Croatia has five years of duration and that there is unlimited duration everywhere in Europe. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 days from the change of address you need to contact urgently. I suggest that it be 15 days. And also this 60 days when a man dies and a relative has to do it within 60 days, to place it for some three, four months because the family is shocked and the condition in which the family is located has no reason to force it because they certainly won't do any troublesome crime. Here I think that these are the arguments that are in Europe and all the European countries that have already been set up for us, that there is no reason why we in our law do not coordinate that and what many have said here and that I absolutely support and agree that the problem is illegal weapons and not legal weapons. People who have a license, who are registered, are certainly not a problem for society or a danger to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27155	Thank you. Your exposure prompted some replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27156	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's to my infidelity, and this time I agree with a colleague from HDZ. I can even dare say that he would sign his words, especially as he spoke of soldiers. And don't forget one thing after all, why people keep illegal weapons. So you're aware that the reason why we had a lot of problems in the war was because we were disarmed and the man was thinking, see this HDZ government is puppetically controlled from the outside, sees weapons of Croatian donations, sends out the country, the Americans come in and tell you what those manpads, those arrows are going to tell you about the shooting of helicopters and planes on a low flight. So Croatia itself is destroying its own weapons. See what kind of air force we have and the man wonders so wait these guys disarm us, so what if there comes a war with which I will defend myself and the fear of people is justified and for that reason I think I should allow all war veterans who don't mean mentally ill, violent, aggressive, or do a threat to society around them, to legalize their weapons from war even if it was working, I think of a long weapon, of course I remember a Serb in Banja Luka had a tank in the garage, that would not be legalized, but that it should, as I say, allow the legalisation of weapons and long but there should be a legal system that punishes illegal weapons. And you HDZ gentlemen can't do that and that's the whole problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27157	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Ante Sanader will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27158	Dear colleague, it's a shame that you're repeating this in parallel, but here we are right now, so I have to react. This government is not puppetary, this government has been elected in this House with more than 90 votes and HDZ has won the elections absolutely with the largest number of mandates and I do not know who is filling your head and whose spokeswoman but certainly not someone who wants good for Croatia, because you must accept what the Croatian people chose even if you did not like it or your employers, but the Croatian people chose it – respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27159	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27160	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Sanader, from your presentation, I've concluded that regarding Article 13, you're actually in favour of it, and I don't think I even personally object to any former soldier or policeman being able to keep a weapon. But it's not clear to me now that I'm talking about Article 13 and the directive, if you're in favour of erasing these provisions at all, means that the legitimate reason for the supply of weapons for personal safety means that the person who proves her personal safety is compromised. So all of what is proposed by this bill to delete it simply so that there is no such provision, but that every person who meets the general conditions that are not, you said that even under general conditions, some of them are controversial to you. But let's say we get rid of those disputed ones, does that mean that any person who asks for a weapon could get it if it meets the general conditions? So, by your understanding, you don't need this evidence to endanger personal security at all. I don't get it. In that sense, if that's the case, then we really go to one liberalisation so that every man can get a weapon regardless of the reasons he needs. And then it occurred to me, here's a colleague of Pernar's earlier mention of the performance. It could happen that someone who knows that his property will be carried out on purpose, and colleague Pernar said it was the last line of defense that I realized, that they wouldn't really come into a situation so that someone wouldn't defend their home in this way, so that he could get a weapon. In that sense, I say I must be careful, and this formulation is not particularly fortunate for the commission that it is doing, but I believe that some rules must be tied to when we talk about the personal security of citizens. So, not in the sense of hunting, shooting and all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27161	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Ante Sander.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27162	Thank you. ... Are we afraid of people who have guns legally or aren't afraid? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not afraid of people who have, who have passed as prescribed in the law, you know that they got, passed the prescribed exams, so they can handle those weapons and they got permission for that weapon. You have professions like I don't know someone who works in the woods, someone who lives alone, someone who guards the guard, a choban. Thank God there's no more shepherds, we destroyed it. But someone who's a shepherd, a shepherd keeps sheep somewhere or someone or lives, works in the woods alone, so why should he lay down to handle guns? If he's not troublesome, if he doesn't have any crimes, then there's no reason why he doesn't have a weapon. We don't need to be afraid of that. And what you're saying is the last line of defense is home, so somebody's gonna defend their own, they're not gonna get a gun license because it's got a purpose, but it can use two gas bottles to put it there and when it's done, it threatens everyone and I don't know everything in the air. So it's not a weapon that's gonna use him because he's got a purpose. Most of the time, I'm a supporter of the fact that everyone has no problem with the law, who has obligations, exams they must have to have in order to handle weapons and to know the dangers of weapons that they can get a license and especially soldiers and especially police officers. Because I'm saying, Croatia that doesn't currently have a regular army except for a professional army that's a small number, so we have to be, why should people be afraid, why not, have legal weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27163	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, the final five minutes, the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Perhaps in the history of parliamentary practice it is very rare that such a strange debate occurs, that is that on the government's proposal, the three largest club representatives of which are two and the ruling, one opposition suggests that they go to regular procedure after having already voted twice in an emergency procedure. But on the other hand, it is a very rare practice that one, one ministry, when changing three governments, sends the same proposal to the Parliament, that is, to draft the same law. Three sets of governments make three proposals, the same bill, to send it to the Parliament and then to the clubs that made that government or make that government propose to return to emergency procedures, i.e. regular procedures. So obviously, the situation is more complex. My suggestion is to my colleagues from the MUP. Or there are very important reasons why you insist on these solutions, so expose them because you didn't expose them. So either argue and make sure that you are right or in the process of the draft law in the government to coordinate something better in a way that you have a wider discussion with the public so that you do not again and for the next second reading, we get the same solutions and then try to get them back into the regular procedure. So, I suggest that a thematic session of the committee, the parent committee in the Assembly, is being established before the final proposal was sent to the Council, in which we would try to explain our views for which you have today received a unique criticism of some solutions. But that's not the first time, so my colleague Sanader had a very similar discussion in the fifth month. I don't know, so I'm not going to declare plagiarism because you're yourself. But it would have been a taste of your discussion in the fifth month or sixth when it was. So obviously these things aren't random. What is important is a political decision. If we want a more restrictive law, a more liberal law, or if we want it to stay the way it is. When you make that political decision, and it is the Government that can make it, then send such a proposal to the Parliament, but then ensure to the representatives clubs at least those who support the government that a new debate on whether or not we will change the direction of the law does not open. That's what we as an opposition party expect from the government, so it doesn't bring us into this situation anymore that we're getting too much of an agreement on something that nobody agrees with the government right now. That would be a short appeal for the next second reading of this law in the near parliamentary past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27165	Thank you. The replica of the respected representative Sasa Djuic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, you gave a good résumé of events related to this law, but I must say that you scared me because now that you've started saying that this was, so it was, so that my colleague Sanader had a similar debate in the fifth month, I was watching it today, I was scared now, so I guess the government won't fall down again so that the Parliament will disband, so let's start over with this. ... Well, fellow Bull, I don't know, we'll see. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Anyway, that's all I wanted to do to distract you from my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27167	Thank you very much. I don't think the government's going down. And another interesting thing that I can add personally to what my colleague Bauk said, which is that we've been discussing for five hours, and we all agree on the same thing. Did it really take us five hours, and we all get along all the time? All right. Anyway, so we're gonna finish up and I'd like to conclude this debate. We'll vote of course when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we'll start working normally at 9.30 a.m. on what order is in the program. Therefore, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, with the subsequent report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Here, thank you very much. SESSION INTERNED IN 19.45 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27168	The second is the final proposal of the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.55. The proposer of the acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The HDZ Representatives' Club and MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists have proposed to the Assembly the next conclusion. Here's a representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27169	I thank the Honorable Mr. President, the requirements of the HDZ Club and the Club of Representatives of MOST have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and should be postponed. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament set out the second sentence: ‘Extremely, if the home working body of the Constitutional Committee or the Legislative Committee proposes that in the law referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article the debate in the first reading may be held in the first reading of the Assembly to carry out the debate in the first reading.’ Therefore, the authorising officer may not be a representative club to be held in the first reading but only the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament referred to in Article 206(2). Rules of Procedure. Since neither this specialised body submitted such a request by the SDP representative club in accordance with the Rules of Procedure nor the practice of the Croatian Parliament from 2007 to 2011, it proposed that in the laws in question, P.Z. 54th, 55th and 59th debate in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27170	Thank you. Representative Grbin, Article 206 refers to the definition of the agenda, so... I understand everything also if you look at the practice of the Croatian Parliament where you were asked in the same way when President Luka Bebić chaired and was the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of SDP, HNS and HSU. [[You can't hear it, you can't hear it.]] So, the club of representatives, but asked for MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27171	.../Intruder Grbin: Yes, but you are in accordance with Article 236. The Rules of Procedure responded to my injury and in accordance with Article 236(1). I hereby declare that in connection with this breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will refer to the Constitutional Committee a play to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27172	I'll take it. Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27173	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, we are at the club about this dilemma Mr. Peđa Grbin has now also been thinking about and we have looked at the practice of the Croatian Parliament over the past few years and we have seen that the third reading can be done after the Croatian Parliament conducts the debate in the first and second readings and then goes to the third reading. That's one thing. The second thing, third reading does not stand according to what the SDP Club said because there are no amendments to the proposed law, and when it comes to third reading, it is explained by the fact that so many amendments were proposed in the debate to significantly amend the law and is therefore referred to in the third reading. Article 206 to which the SDP Club is called and Mr Grbin is right before the point of the draft law relating to harmonisation with the EU is included, so that the return of the law to the ordinary procedure is indeed the right of the parliamentary committees and the proposing. In that case, clubs have no right and there's a Mr. Grbin right, but I'm saying it before the point gets into the agenda. When the point is discussed, then we can no longer go from emergency procedure to third reading, and so on, in this case, there is no specific amendment that would then justify third reading. Therefore, the same proposal that HDZ also sent from MOST colleagues took place in 2011 on the SDP Club proposal and referred to the Law on supply, a pardon for the Public Procurement Act, which was also P.Z. In this regard, therefore, by respecting these reasons stated by the SDP club, we remained in the position to argue that we had checked the debate in the first reading and that we would refer the law to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27174	If a representative of the coat of arms had called for the number of amendments, I would have responded equally. A representative of the coat of arms will exercise his right. As far as the conclusion is concerned, I will read the proposal next. 1. On the proposal for a law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens with a final draft law, P.Z.E. No. The 55th debate was held in the first reading. 1. All objections and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Does the proposaler's representative want to show himself about the proposed conclusion? Yeah. Lidija Pelivan Stipetic, State Secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27175	Well, here's only in the name of the promoter we accept the view that the law goes into another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-18-0.u27176	Thank you. Please get involved and let's vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 117 for, 4 abstentions and no votes against the conclusion reached in the text of the motion. Since we have reached the proposed conclusion, it is essential to vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the SDP club, which proposes to refer the law to the third reading. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we continue with the work of the plenary session. Point one is: 5. Final draft law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 74. Since the government is the same as the opposition put forward the same bill, I would suggest we go to a united debate if you agree. Thank you. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this legislative proposal should also be discussed by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Hrvoje Šlezak State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. Here you go.
