ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47168	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a five-minute break so I can talk about the conjecture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47169	What is it I'm sorry about?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47170	It's about muggings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47171	Okay. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47172	Mr. President, I'm looking for a break to discuss the impact of politics on the creation of the Agrokor case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47173	Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47174	I'm looking for a break from the current state of the mainstream media in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47175	It's a critter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47176	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of club GLASS and HSU, I'm looking for a ten-minute break to say something about additional health insurance. And I would like to ask at the same time for my colleagues to be able to change the order, given that we have an important session or hearing of the candidate for the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, if possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47177	Are you okay with the three colleagues who called earlier? You got it. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a break to talk about a new Family Law proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47179	Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47180	Good morning! I wanted to seek a break on the subject of the catastrophic state of water for human consumption, but since the thematic session is on the subject of which we chair at ten o'clock then I will withdraw my proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47181	Thank you. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47182	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break to say a few words about the Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47183	Thank you. That's it. I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Silvano Hrelja is the first to be respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47185	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break that in the first place, unlike the previous performances, I would commend Minister Kujundzic for stopping saying that he should collect DZO with a saying that he should not, and this is worth every praise, because DZO, or public insurance company HZO-DZO in 2016, picked up a billion and 900 million kuna which of the policies of the citizens, which of what the state covers for the poor for the students and the whole group of voluntary blood donors, etc., and returned 91% of the funds of a billion and 900 million to the system. All private insurance companies dealing with D.O.C. picked up about 300 million and returned 47% to the system so that everyone can imagine what was more acceptable to our country and what was in the public interest. What I would like to draw attention to is this, so I would like to remind him that the Croatian medical chamber performs the following activities with public authority, runs the doctor's directory in the Republic of Croatia, gives, performs and withdraws the authorisation for independent work, conducts professional supervision of the work of the doctor, determines the lowest price of the work of private doctors, approves individual prices of the medical services of private doctors, and controls the legality of the work of the Croatian medical chamber in the exercise of its public powers is carried out by the Ministry of Health. Is that the Croatian medical chamber dared to open a public tender for the WHO for all doctors. This is what associations do in Croatia. I wonder what's next of the Croatian medical chamber? Are we going to buy spits, pig's halves, Delimano knives, or something like that, are they going to offer us that? And in order to make the problem even more difficult for the competition, insurance companies reported, the Croatian medical chamber was set around the most favourable insurance company and did not lie down, agreed on a price of 29 kuna per shelf. And you remember when I was speaking from this pay phone that the employees of the MORH were given the opportunity to ensure that the same private security at the price of 32 kuna and 70 limes, 20 lips cheaper than the public insurance company. What's the logic here? What do I want to point to? So I want to point out that something stinks here, because it turns out that the risk of 20,000 doctors is smaller than that of the healthiest part of the Croatian population, so employees of the MORH, so the active composition of the Croatian Army. So where we have 60-year-olds and 70-year-olds, the risk is lower. That's impossible. Something in this story stinks. There's something on the side that decided to accept this shelf. Maybe the offer to the medical chamber, maybe an offer to an individual, but this is not a normal situation like a normal situation that one medical chamber is one chamber at all, it could do a chamber of psychologists, etc., all those who exist to deal with these affairs. I don't think we've passed the laws that the medical chamber deals with what the associations do. If this is what doctors want to do, they can all start associations of whatever they want, associations of those with blue eyes, blond hair or whatever they want and ask for services on the market however they want, but this story is completely illogical. And I ask from this place Minister Kujundzic to exercise supervision, to look at what is written in the Statute of the Croatian Medical Chamber and whether this is something that is acceptable for the Republic of Croatia because it cannot be acceptable when those companies that depend on the state are looking for their insurance with private insurance companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47186	Thank you. The second debate of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives and the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47187	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. About an hour ago in the town of Čakovec, pensioner Vladimir Deathic was delegated. This was the third attempt at dissection, the drama lasted since yesterday afternoon. 20 police marches, 60 police officers blocked not only Mr. Deathic's apartment, but also an entire 500m-long street to the threat of the residents of Čakovec and to the threat of students from nearby school. This clearly shows how much the regime really is, how... politics is afraid of the citizens' reaction, how ashamed they are of the mirage, and yet it shows how cowardly it is that there is no courage to stop them. Mr. Deathic took a loan from the Saving Credit Cooperative of 38 thousand kuna, he returned 42 thousand so the principal was returned, however due to various interest, court disputes, debt reselling, interest rates of 2.5% per month, his debt grew to incredible millions and 100,000 kuna today. It means 40 thousand kuna per million and 100 thousand kuna. Only in the Republic of Croatia colleagues and colleagues at the same time the governor and this and the former boast that they are successful, that everything is fine and we have an increased number of applications from savings credit cooperatives. Hunted in murky, Croatian citizens were victims for whom some financial malfeasances that end tragically. All he's created his entire life, Mr. Deathic has now lost to financial fraud. It's neither the first nor the last. And if there is retroactiveness for the Swiss franc, if there is retroactiveness for Raiffeisen cooperatives, the law has been passed here in this House recently, then why has the amendment of the Living Wall not been accepted that there is retroactivity for both purposes and cases? Why is there no protection of the only real estate in all cases? What is this attitude toward older and powerless people? Where should Mr. Mortal go now? This whole dispute is headed according to the old executive law. This and numerous other events go to the government and the ruling majority, ministers Bozinovic and Božnjakovic, who have failed to respond to the demands of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47188	Thank you. It is now up to the respected colleague Ivan Lovrinović, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, to change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47189	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected citizens who follow us. I am thinking about this speaker and about this high house of ours, and I cannot believe that many among us cannot yet figure out what he should actually serve. Our citizens looking at this High House, our Croatian Parliament and us behind this speaker are expecting what they have chosen us for, and that is the responsible policy and hope that we will fight for the better tomorrow. What do they actually get? They get a good comedy, a fight, a demagogue and a pulsism without any excessive end. Many of you colleagues are angry at the inappropriate comedy of individuals without wondering who is actually to blame for it. For the past 20 years, this House has raised hands for the various prime ministers, ministers and other functions that have fashioned the lives of all of us and brought us all together to this theater of absurdity. For the laws of these governments and their ministers, they unspokenly raised their hands by not thinking with their own head as crime passed along and where the eyes were closed to the threat of national interests and sovereignty. Because of all this today we have Agrokor and who knows what else is waiting for us. If we stop performing populistly, then we will look each other in the eye, leave Todorovic's billions here or there because balances can be interpreted differently and just throw dust into our eyes and drag us away from the key problem. So, it is undeniable that Agrokor, in uncontrollable growth and financial acrobatics in billions, has endangered our entire system and let those in charge of bringing it to an end and we finally determine why the prime ministers, ministers and MPs have allowed that to happen exactly in the first place. Why does Mr. Todorovic have a great need to speak to the public these days, did you ask yourself that? Why did he keep his mouth shut five months ago and have nothing against Lex Agrokor? Apparently, the other side played a deal that was meant to protect his interests. How? Remember that just five months ago, a law was to be sent here that allows, in a pre-demand settlement, those who gave guarantees to have the same weight in the vote as the actual owners of the claim. This could have protected Mr. Todorovic's interest, but the law did not see the light of day. Todoric understands that he is being played and that the extraordinary administration has a plan to increase debts, reduce the value of the concerts so that some other Todorovi will take over certain companies from Agrokor system. Therefore, it is now important to form an investigative committee as soon as possible, to give Mr. Todorovic and other witnesses the opportunity to explain to the cameras the role of politics to ordinary citizens. So tomorrow, gentlemen, is not a "day D", "day D" will be the day that we learn that a model of co-existence between politics and Agrokor is formed, so that it never happens to us again. Therefore, before tomorrow's release of the financial reports of Agrokor, the government would have to respond to the accusations of Mr Todorovic and why it did not launch stricter investigative measures against him when she herself claimed to have known the state of Agrokor. Why did the then government hide this information from the public and what was truly spoken at secret night meetings? If part of Mr. Todorovic's indictment against the Deputy Prime Minister is correct, then she would have to answer and resign. That's why Mr. Todorovic should be given the opportunity to speak before the Assembly's investigative committee. And when I insisted on the parliamentary investigation committee a few days ago, as I did now, and I believe that it must be dealt with by establishing the political gaps that I had mentioned earlier, by determining why all governments and ministers closed their eyes to the security threat of the uncontrolled Agrokor expansion, the coincidence of its expansion and eviction of Slavonia, etc. This is a key issue for colleagues and colleagues, and until we clear it up and change our action in this great House, until we finally give the Croatian Parliament the key political role we will continue to be home to comedy and fight instead of home to hope. And finally, all those who do not want an investigative commission on Agrokor, are either part of the project or are valued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47190	4th is a respected colleague, Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Advocacy Club for Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47191	Dear colleagues, what is the current situation in Croatian media? Is the fundamental human right to the truth and what is happening in Croatian media? I would say that we can freely sign today's obituary for investigative journalism in Croatia. It's a term that doesn't exist here. That's where we talk about the general things here, the details no one's talking about. We don't have a serious... in Croatia, a conservative worldview. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Journalists are exposed daily only censorships, censorships, threats, here recently, the man wanted to publish something... Mafia, he's got threats and he's afraid to write what he should write because that structure is organisational, criminal from former personnel and current mobsters, this one hides in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To the media, people don't know about it anymore, just some nebulose and smoke curtains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the structure of this octopus? How come now 22 years have passed since the end of the Homeland War, we still know nothing about it? I told you before in front of this speaker that Croatia's biggest threat is former personnel, networked with criminal groups. So in Russia where 40% of GDP is held by these criminal groups, 40% of GDP. What are the qualifications of the press? So if you're writing in... For the economy, it must be a graduate economist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have all kinds of scribes written up there, and they don't know anything about politics, they're actually politically and historically illiterate. And again they're spinning one story is this, we have to worry about the future and not about the past, and that's because there's no analysis here, and that's why the Croatian people don't know the truth until today and they can't tie the consequences and the causes, it's repeated here all the time. When you say it, it's like pulsism or hate speech, etc., etc. This phraseology from the former Bolshevik Revolution system. There's been talk here recently about some key things, it's a matter of national security. An example is that the Croatian army would infiltrate in the 1990s by the secret service of the BiH Army. That's where I read all the death warrants for the people they've been liquidated, no one's interested. They want to know that I said you should shoot the judge. What's with all the affairs? DUUDI, HEP, suckling roads, INA, etc. where it's sitting in drawers in the State's Attorney's Office, for years nothing's happened. In the end, when it comes to lustration, as we can expect from journalists whose files are in Belgrade, I repeat it all the time, that's where I gave some code names, that you would get objective truth from them. And these people today are keeping Croatia in total media darkness. And who cares if you have a head of OZNA up there writing books in Bjelovar, he writes books. And in Bjelovar, you have hundreds of mass graves, so it's a moral crime, it's completely ignored. Discrimination against the Croatian diaspora is also ignored. Does anyone wonder why it takes a Croat three years to win citizenship? It takes him two years to get a housekeeper. It's intentional sabotage from former personnel. That's what I said before, nobody cares about that, and that's why the state can't go forward. The whole brain trust would come back here, the kids would come back here and I can't come. The last stop there is a Blackie in the MUP upstairs and we're talking about some kind of foreign law today. What's the Croatian Committee doing outside the country? Ten basic requests from the diaspora for return have long been submitted. Which one of the reporters knows anything about those ten demands? Like. abolishing the bureaucracy of socialist and, yes, the implementation of lustration law, it's just lighting, and that lustration is based on three pillars. First, if people knew what was going on here and what is happening today, the second is the opening of archives for which it was voted, MOST proposed the law, which is the archives, and the third is human. I repeat, in the Constitutional Court, Croats are hostages of the legal system. You have two systems. One is for those I mentioned, those interest groups and former personnel and the other for the common regiment. That's where I put the name of a man, the code name Vrbik, who works for KOS, he's today a constitutional judge, who are we kidding here? How long will we listen to those smoke curtains and just say this in the end, without truth there is no catharsis and no one will come back and Mr. Lovrinović, it is not pure pulsism Thank you. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Glasnović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47192	The fifth debate, SDP advocates' club and respected counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, a new Family Law proposal has been sent to the public consultation. It's an early phase, but we think it's extremely important to draw your attention to some of the things that are in this proposal. According to a proposal from the new Family Law, colleagues and colleagues, couples without children are not family. Same-sex couples with kids aren't family. Dear friends, coming here, listening to the radio, people commenting on this bill. There was a man on the show who said, "My wife lost a child." Are we family? Are we going to say they're not family? I can't tell them that. Unfortunately, in a wider family, I had a case where in a car accident almost the whole family died, only my cousin was alive. He was raised by his grandparents. Are they family, colleagues and colleagues? Are they? It's the only family my cousin knows. And we take the right to say they're not. Why do you enter privacy and intimacy? Only totalitarian regimes want to control privacy. Only totalitarian regimes want to stick their noses into what's happening in our four walls. Only totalitarian regimes will tell my cousin that his grandparents are not his family. Only totalitarian regimes will tell this man who lost his child that he and his wife are not family. This isn't a step backwards, this is a thousand steps back. This is a step away from 100 years ago. This is the return of the Middle Ages, if you will. And even there it was known that grandparents were family. We need to activate our colleagues and colleagues immediately, so that such a shameful proposal doesn't come to this House at all. This is totally unacceptable. What I have to ask are colleagues and colleagues from the HNS who are a liberal, progressive party, at least were boredom, and now is part of the ruling majority. Will you let this bill come before us in the first place? The SDP strongly opposes these common ideas. We all need to stop this right now. Because if we don't stop, otherwise the conservative revolution marches on... As long as the SDP is in this House, we won't allow that kind of thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47194	The latest debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, Ante Babic, is the same as the SDP's Advocacy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47195	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I am obliged to report on this subject, namely the HDZ family has always been the backbone of identity, spiritual renewal and historical survival and the development of modern Croatian society in Croatian values. For the sake of facts, it should be said that the Constitutional Court suspended the family law passed by the SDP government with its decision and then, for procedural reasons, they actually called the law a controversial law. This family law has no political omen for us, it actually concerns all four and a half million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to say the following, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, then, today, demographics and families, youth and social policy, made one working group, which is composed of professional and scientific public, from civil society associations, churches of all those who can actually contribute as much to better family law as possible. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to manifest itself to the Constitutional Court, whether it was going to amend and supplement family law or to make a new family law. He was put into public debate yesterday, 27.9., and it will take a month, so enough time, if there are certain controversial ones, in which Mr. Hajdukovic also spoke, to discuss it in one dialogue. I'm saying that you would bring as good or best family law as possible, as far as anyone else is concerned, and mostly children. So the family is defined as a legal concept by determining who is considered a family member for the purpose of applying this family law. Family members are mothers, fathers and their children, biologically and jointly adopted, with adopted children considered to be family members, due to the effects of adoption, prescribed adoption provisions. So, a parent who doesn't live with a child, and other relatives by blood, grandparents, aunts, uncles or similars, for example. A pastor, a stepmother, a stepfather, of course, if they live together. I stress, this provision does not restrict the circle of persons who enjoy the right to respect family life, in the context of international legal protection in constitutional law. The concept of family members includes other regulations, in other legal branches for its own use, and so the family law determines who does everything family for application, this is important to emphasize, the family legal institute. According to experts, in literature, the first form of the family is a nuclear family, a basic family made up of parents and children. Examples are a biological family, a marriage or an extramarital community, a woman and a man with biological offspring. A social family, it's about adult communities with no children, an incomplete family, one parent and a child's community. Adoptima family, adoptor with adopted child and family formed with medical help, marriage or extramarital union with children, who are biologically not derived from persons who are their parents in social terms. I think there'll be plenty of time to talk about these things before this bill comes to this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47196	Thank you. And this is what we've come to the end of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47223	Before giving the proposer an opportunity to give an additional explanation, he asks for the word Mr. Pernar, who probably wants to tell Mr. Babic or Mr. Hrelja something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47224	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to say that I'm looking for a break for the scandalous judgment of the priest's paedophile, who, for a sodomized boy, has only been punished for working for the greater good. Thank you. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47225	Okay. Are you ready right now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47226	Dear ladies and gentlemen. For a long time, shocking things have been happening in our justice system. The last in a series is the judgment of priests from Slavonia who, for rape, that is, the sodomizing of boys, received the punishment only for working for the common good. I'm saying it's scandalous, because I've been sentenced to two months in prison for parole. So it turns out that in the eyes of the Croatian judiciary, there is a more serious violation of the 2 graphite than multiple rapes of a child. What makes it possible for the Croatian judiciary to be politically instrumentalised, to tell my own close people or people close to the authorities of the current one, and we are aware that the Catholic Church is one of the most powerful institutions in Croatia and that it is closely connected with HDZ, we see that the priest is seen through his fingers, and that someone else is given a more severe sentence for much more banal matter solely for political reasons because he is not like the current regime. I'd like to mention more things, which is that during the trial, there was a shocking fact that the top of the worm was covering it up, so this is how everyone knew everything, but everyone kept quiet about what the witness said. He said it was the bishop's directive that this case of sexual abuse, sodomisation, paedophilia should be called what we will, rape of a minor should simply be pushed under the carpet. And if that case hadn't been given to a court epilogue if there hadn't been a conviction against the priest, it would probably never have been found out about that case because the church would have been covering it up. And what does that make us do? So it leads us to believe that the Catholic Church obviously has a systematic policy of concealing pedophilia. And for this reason, I call on the competent institutions, primarily the guardian for children, who instead of such cases of horrible child abuse, instead of taking advantage of children for begging, etc., is that what I do with students or not. And at the same time, I was exposed to the link between her personal and the media in the service of the regime. And this priest who sodomized the boy he is not only under the protection of the judicial system, he is also under the protection of political and media, so his name is not publicly spoken, his name is secret, so no dear ladies and gentlemen anything, eaten by a wolf donkey. And I find it shocking that the register of pedophile is secret. I don't know who's in the interest of a pedophile registry not being a public record because the public has the right to know who the pedophile are among us, who are those who abuse children in the most terrible way. However, the current government means HDZ Milan Bandic and HNS obviously do not want the registry to go out and for this reason hide it. Is that because their members are in that register or some other reason, we don't know. But what we do know is that in the developed countries of the West, especially in the U.S. where we bow down, there's a register of paedophiles public. So when you move to a neighborhood or if you live in a neighborhood, etc., you can go online and see who the paedophiles in your village are to tell the child, the child is to be looked after, etc. And why is that? Because pedophilia in its nature is not treatable means it's a pathological tendency that is in some way, some deny that it's a commitment, but it's something that paedophiles can't cure. So paedophile is a pedophile, like heterosexual heterosexual, homosexual homosexual, bisexual bisexual. It simply means paedophile. It's his fondness for children. Why am I saying it's important that the pedophile register go out? So that the public may know who these priests are who abuse children because of what is happening, by moving that Catholic priest from one parish to another, it is evident that the abuse continues. So the practice from all the countries where pedophilia was being covered up that these troubled priests were just moving away and that the abuse went on. Unfortunately, in this country, the interests of children are in the last place, and the right to protect your personal health, your body, your happiness is a fundamental human right, even your children's right. And this time I appeal to all the institutions to do something about it, and to the judiciary to give the most severe punishment for the most terrible crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47227	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47259	We have a request for a break, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the current situation around Agrokor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47261	Thank you. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47262	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47263	Thank you. Dear colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ club, I'm also looking for a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47265	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break to 18 and 45. It's 6:35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.45 HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Break was requested by a respected colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47267	Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is clear to all of us after the last few days that Minister Zdravko Maric, who is here among us, has not been exempt, and he said he was exempt in the case of Agrokor. It is clear and visible to everyone that he was alone in a meeting with Ivica Todorovic, that he was at a meeting in the government with a whole team of people, that he was inside making decisions and making proposals. Minister Maric said he was exempt as finance minister at the most difficult time for the Republic of Croatia as regards the economic situation of the Homeland War. All the time, he claimed he had nothing to do with Agrokora because he was an ex-employee, and that's why there was essentially a refurbishing, redecoration of the government. That's when we claimed and now we're saying it and now it's confirmed. And I ask Minister Maric who is here among us, did he opt out of government meetings in the government's premises from a meeting where Ivica Todorovic attended where he talked about Agrokor and where he was at a meeting with Ivica Todorovic. I mentioned this earlier, the people must know it, they must know the truth that when they asked that he could no longer act as Minister Maric could no longer act as minister, then HDZ said he had exempted himself from the Agrokor case. That's not true, that was a hoax, that's a milder word, that was a pure lie. I ask him openly here is now among us let him come out and confirm and let him say if he was at meetings in the government where Ivica Todorovic was amongst others and was he discussing the Agrokor case? Was he in a meeting alone with Ivica Todorovic in the case of Agrokor and gave him how to behave? It is. If you don't deny it, it does. You were wrong, gentlemen. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, you were wrong. This is why the entire government has to go. A man in the most difficult economic situation is exempt, and he runs meetings and makes solutions in the case of Agrokor. At meetings where the entire economic system is collapsing, where the remains of the remains of the political elite are to be saved, all finance ministers, all prime ministers who have brought the situation to the economic Republic of Croatia. That is why God Petrov also filed criminal charges against Ivica Todorovic and I personally against HAFA and the CNB for not doing their job, did not protect the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia. One more question, Minister Maric, go out for this pay phone and tell me if you were at a meeting with Ivica Todorovic alone and were you at a meeting where Ivica Todorovic was present in the case of Agrokor? If you were at the same time you must step down because you have deceived both this Parliament and the people, you are directly involved in this case. First of all, it's a shame that you've opted out in the biggest economic situation as Minister of Finance and left a role for others, and you knew everything that was going on in Agrokor. Go out for this pay phone and answer this question, me as a parliamentary representative and for what it was for, because of you Minister Marić, who was directly in the conflict of interest because you had an exemption, and you participated directly in meetings where Ivica Todorovic attended.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47268	I thank my colleague, Mir Bull. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Stanku was requested by a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47269	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This break we asked for what is already unsustainable every day that happens and the Croatian public deserves answers. What my colleague Bulj was saying is clear in Croatia is clear to all that his colleague Zdravko Maric is in conflict of interest, that he could not separate his relationship with Agrokora from one side, and now these days he has been actively communicating with Agrokora, and on the other hand he said he is exempt from all decisions. What does that mean? When the record doesn't see you, when it's not recorded, then you don't take it off, and when it's recorded, then you're still on the record or you're on the recorder, here's my exception. But on the other hand, you communicate, you negotiate, you obviously communicate, you make decisions, etc. On the other hand, we see every day the information that the girls around Agrokor, we see today, and we are looking for it is very easy to check, that tomorrow, Prime Minister Plenkovic, to answer if there was any and what kind of communication there was between Martina Dalic, Ante Ramljak and Ivica Todorovic mentioned, one of these parties has been constantly here already today in several of their posts. This can be very easily checked and we want an indication from Martina Dalic whether she communicated by email with Ivica Todorovic in any way other than the official one, whether Ante Ramljak was before being appointed Commissioner on the basis of Lex Agrokor, whether the text was sms-ira and whether he communicated with members of the Agrokor administration as announced today because the Croatian public has the right to know. Which is why HDZ hides it, which is why it does not give answers, which is why it ignores this information, it is an interesting question for everyone in Croatia. What we think is that this is about the conflict between the two sides of the HDZ, the two HDZ currents around Agrokor. One current that enabled Ivica Todorovic in the '90s to acquire Agrokor on the criminal privatisation made by HDZ during the 1990s on criminal privatisation and other HDZ electricity, which is apparently representing Martin Dalic and the interesting lobby and circle around it. And at the moment, there is a conflict between one of Todorovic's power lines, which allowed the privatisation of the '90s and other current currents of interest over the HDZ headed by Martin Dalic. Croatian citizens deserve answers, and that's not funny, Mr. Djakic. That's not funny, Mr. Djakic. People deserve answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47270	Dear Mr. Maras, I apologize, just a moment. Mr. Djakić, I would kindly ask you not to enter your colleague Marasa's word while he's speaking, I think it's extremely rude and it's not appropriate for this House of the High, I ask you and I appeal to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47271	People deserve answers. Andrej Plenkovic needs an answer. This is no longer a problem for Zdravko Maric, this is not a problem Martina Dalic, this is the problem of Andrej Plenkovic. And he's incriminated by the behavior of his ministers. We want tomorrow's answer if this is true, we want tomorrow's answer to what happened in Agrokor and the Croatian public must know. It is impossible and unsustainable to ignore this situation from day to day, and that is what Prime Minister Plenkovic is doing. And we wonder why he does it, who he protects and who he hides. And if we don't get those answers, we're going to ask the question every day, here today is 7 o'clock, we broke up the debate over one law, we're going to ask every day, and we're going to look for an answer every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47272	I thank Mr. Maras. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47273	I thank Mr. Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues, two serious opposition clubs in the Croatian Parliament are doing a very dramatic situation here, which has very concerned the entire Croatian public to the extent that here are the people on the streets, so we here in the Parliament have to be afraid of such a dramatic situation. So a representative of the MOST Club and a representative of the SDP club, based on a post on Ivica Todorovic's blog, without anyone in Croatia knowing if it really is his bloc, who writes it, are seeking the resignation of the government and Andrej Plenkovic. When we talk about this meeting that Mr. Bulj mentioned, I would like to remind you that this meeting was initiated by Mr. Bozo Petrov, on which he was able to make clear everything he had at that meeting, who he was pressuring, who asked for a meeting in the government, how that meeting came about, it is not necessary to ask his colleague Dalic or his colleague Maric. All about Zdravko Marić, about his role, about Agrokor we had a whole day's debate in the Croatian Parliament, we exposed the views of certain clubs and as I recall after that debate, Marić was still the finance minister and that was the point of the fracture in which, after which, there was a reconfiguration of the government and after which MOST practically became an opposition. Therefore, all we had to say, we presented all the arguments we needed to make in the procedure concerning the request to step down, to remove Zdravko Maric from the office of the Minister of Finance. I believe that all the truth about the Law of Extraordinary Administration and the procedure of the extraordinary administration was finally shown by the state of Agrokor. People here, we raise tensions, create dramatics, and we need to ask the Agrockor employees how and how the government has acted. It is necessary to ask suppliers, numerous OPGs, small entrepreneurs how and how they experience the Law on Extraordinary Administration, they should be asked. The fact that we here at this level, reading daily people's blogs, create drama, is more about us than really about the problem that you're trying to show in this way. For me personally, and for many years I have been in politics, lex Agrokor as it is called, is the best intervention of any government in the Croatian economy. The most successful intervention. And instead of saving those people who made the intervention, who saved the Croatian economy because of the chaos that would have occurred in Agrokor, which allowed 56,000 employees to receive salaries. That allowed 150 000 other employees in the companies that are suppliers of Agrokora to continue to operate because of the fact that in Croatia they... , we call people here, which is why someone, and we don't know who, probably Ivica Todorovic, because someone on their blog, without being able to come to the public, in the media, in front of journalists, so they don't answer questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are here asking honest people who have done this as state officials, members of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, we call them to withdraw, to resign, to muddle them, to criminalise them, and I don't know everything I don't speak of them. Probably these posts on the blog will have their own court epilogue on private lawsuits. We'll wait and see about that, too. But, dear friends of the Bridge, you've been in that government for a long time, and you knew very well, what's going on, what's the situation in Agrokor, who's calling for the help of the state, which is why he's calling for the help of the state, to turn the board now, to collect cheap political points, asking for Marina Dalic or Zdravko Maric's resignation. Therefore, what we have done with the Law on Extraordinary Administration has, in my opinion, contributed to the stabilisation, financial and economic system of the Republic of Croatia and we in the HDZ can only be proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u47274	I thank Mr. Branko Bačić. Dear colleague Bulj, I would kindly ask you, you have the institute enough, and you can comment... Comrade Bull, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51076	Honorable MPs, MPs good morning. I see there's a lot of you calling for a break. I will only announce that the first item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 170. And this has come to an end, now we return to the agenda, as I said first point: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 170. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by three committees, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would now like to ask the proposing representative, the respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, Majda Buric, to give an additional explanation of the bill's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51078	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic and a warm welcome to all MPs and MPs. Here is a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The application of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Act of Persons with Disabilities entered into force on 1.1.2014, with its full application starting on 1.1.2015, when the quota of compulsory employment of persons with disabilities was introduced. The application of the law stressed the need for certain changes and supplements, with the aim of further improved professional rehabilitation, as well as employment of disabled persons. The proposed amendments and additions to the law relate to the following. One of the basic areas, which is governed by the law, is the area of professional rehabilitation, which includes different measures and activities, which are taken for the purpose of training and employment of persons with disabilities. The applicable law stipulates the right to make professional rehabilitation a person with disabilities, for which the competent authority of the artisan body has established the remaining working capacity. It follows from that legal provision that people with disabilities first have to pass the skill process, and only afterwards do they refer to rehabilitation and rehabilitation assessment at the centres for professional rehabilitation. This significantly slows down and makes it difficult to involve people with disabilities on the labour market, and also needlessly burdens the body with skills. In addition, in practice, an expert may not direct a person with disabilities to a rehabilitation assessment, and the findings and opinions of the body of art do not contain all the necessary data on the working opportunities of a disabled person. That is why amendments and additions to this law are proposed, to speed up and facilitate the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the professional rehabilitation process, in a way that they are directly directed to the rehabilitation centres. In this context, it is proposed that the right to professional rehabilitation can be achieved by a person with disabilities who meets the requirements for enrolment in an eyewitness of persons with disabilities. Based on the results of the rehabilitation evaluation or findings and opinions of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, Croatian Employment Service advisers will receive all information they need to prepare persons with disabilities for employment. In the report and opinion of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, details of the difficulties in the working functioning of persons with disabilities, how difficulties can be reduced and what are preserved working skills and abilities of persons with disabilities, and a proposal for the implementation of further professional rehabilitation services if necessary. Furthermore, the applicable law provides that the professional rehabilitation procedure is to be initiated and financed by a service provider that can be HZMO, HZZ, HZZO, social care centre, insurance company of local (regional) and regional self-government and employer and private client. Since, in addition to the above-mentioned service providers, professional rehabilitation services can also be ordered by the Office for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, it is proposed to extend the circle of the contracting authorities of this service in such a way that... the given body can be the contracting authority. A key role in the implementation of professional rehabilitation services has been played by centres for professional rehabilitation that are jointly established by the Republic of Croatia and local (regional) and regional self-government units. In the past procedures of the establishment of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, which are those in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek, all actions on behalf of the Republic of Croatia as founders were taken over by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which meant a more complex and long-term procedure. In order to further simplify and speed up the procedure for the exercise of founding rights and duties over the centres for professional rehabilitation of amendments and additions to this law, it is proposed that the founding rights and responsibilities on behalf of the Republic of Croatia be carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. In addition to professional rehabilitation, certain amendments and additions to the law are provided for in the field of work and employment of disabled persons. The applicable law stipulates that persons with disabilities can be employed in the open labour market or under special conditions, so we are talking about protection workshops, i.e. integration workshops, with the obligation of employers to ensure reasonable adaptation of the workplace. Amendments and additions to the law propose to precisely specify and further define the concept of reasonable adjustment in such a way as to include job adjustment as well as working conditions and organisation. The provision of effective and practical measures for disabled persons involves not only architectural or technical adjustments but also adjustments relating to the conditions and organisation of work such as work at home, redistribution of tasks, provision of additional training and such. In addition, it is necessary to prescribe the obligation to ensure reasonable adjustment and, when carrying out the tender procedure itself, to test and/or interview because persons with disabilities are already at that stage, facing obstacles to access to the labour market and therefore we consider this part of a reasonable adjustment and further detailing it extremely important. In order to encourage the employment of disabled persons, it has proved particularly important to introduce a quota employment system that has been in place as you know it since 1.1.2015 and obliges all employers from both the public and the real sector who employ at least 20 workers to employ a certain number of persons with disabilities in an appropriate workplace in appropriate working conditions, namely 3% of the total number of employees. Although the trend in employment of disabled persons over the last 10 years has been the greatest increase since the application of quota employment. This is confirmed by the HZZ data according to which in 2015, a total of 2613 persons with disabilities were employed from the Institute's records, which is 39.2% higher than in 2014. During 2016, a total of 2853 people with disabilities were employed from the Institute's records, which is 9.2% more than in 2015 and that a positive trend in the employment of disabled persons continues this year and this year confirms this data during the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 August 2017 from the records, when, where data show us that a total of 2 000 430 persons with disabilities were employed from the Institute's records. The obligations of quota employment of persons with disabilities from the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities have been excluded by newly established employers, at the time of the introduction into operation for up to 24 months from the start of work. Following the application of the law, it was observed that the concept of a newly established employer and thus a period of exemption from payment of compulsory, quota employment would be interpreted differently. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the laws are proposed to accurately specify the period during which the newly established employer does not have an obligation to employ persons with disabilities in a way that explicitly prescribes that this period of 24 months is that from the date of entry into the relevant register, or from the date of establishment under a special regulation, if it is the bodies of the State Administration. In addition to the employment of persons with disabilities, the quota obligation can also be met in a number of replacement ways, for example by receiving persons with disabilities to practice, rehabilitation or professional training for work, the scholarship of their regular education, the conclusion of business cooperation agreements with protective and integrated workshops, etc. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the law are explicitly prescribed that these other means of meeting the mandatory quota employment of persons with disabilities are considered a replacement quota. For those employers who fail to meet the quota or by hiring or by substituting the payment obligation, 30% of the minimum wage per month for each person with disabilities they were obliged to employ. In 2017, it was the amount of 982 kuna and 80 limes. It is important to stress that other EU Member States, such as Austria, Germany, Italy, Slovenia, etc., also regulate the quota employment system of persons with disabilities, with the amount of monetary compensation in the Republic of Slovenia significantly lower and is 30% minimum wage, as I said 982 kuna compared to, for example, 70% of the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia, which is 563 euros. The fulfilment of the cash compensation obligation shall be accompanied by an artisanal office based on the data from the JOPPD form by which employers are obliged to submit a report on the amount of the amount of the cash compensation with the aim of administrative disbursement of employers and taking into account the fact that the Office for Skills is able to monitor and fulfil the obligation of cash compensation through the employer’s own OIB. These amendments and additions propose to abolish the obligation to submit a report through the JOPPD form and propose to abolish the final form by submitting the JOPPD form for the month of December 2017. Furthermore, the applicable law stipulates that the funds paid from the basis of the cash compensation for failure are used for the purpose of payment of incentives and rewards as well as for the implementation of projects and programmes for the employment of persons with disabilities provided by the Institute of Engineering. Assets not used during the current year shall be transferred and transferred to the following year. At present, a significant amount of funds paid from the base of the cash compensation is neutralised around 369 million kuna. And the reason is that the system of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, although established in 1.1.2015, did not fully live because the law allowed only legal assumptions for the establishment of the system but its technical implementation came only later. Although the work of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation was scheduled to be established in 1.1.2015 due to objective circumstances, it was not until the end of 2015 or early 2016, which resulted in a lower use of incentives for the employment of persons with disabilities but also a smaller number of people with disabilities involved in the labour market. Also due to objective circumstances, projects and programmes for the employment of disabled persons have been missing and will require a certain period of time. Therefore, the real relationship of the collected and the funds from the base of the cash compensation will be determined only after the system of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons becomes fully effective. In addition, it is important to stress that incentives and rewards for the employment of people with disabilities for the payment currently used are not sufficient for the effective integration of persons with disabilities into the world of work. Effective integration of people with disabilities is integration through various professional rehabilitation services, which also confirms the experiences of other countries. For this very reason, these amendments and the amendments to the laws propose to extend the purpose of the funds collected from the base of the financial compensation so as to enable these funds to be used for the sustainability and development of the system of professional rehabilitation. This will ensure the stability of the system of professional rehabilitation but also better and more effective integration of people with disabilities on the labour market. In addition, it is proposed that the funds collected from the base of the cash compensation can also be used for incentives for the employment of disabled persons who, other than the ZOSI, are paid by other users established by the register of budgetary and non-financial users, as well as for projects and programmes for the employment of persons with disabilities carried out by other users established by the register of budgetary and non-financial users. The method of use and allocation of these funds collected from the base of monetary compensation will be determined by a specific decision, i.e. by a decision of the Minister responsible for Labour and Pension System. When it comes to employment under special conditions, persons with disabilities can be employed in integrated and protective workshops. Integrated workshops have been introduced as newspapers in the field of employment of disabled persons, and so far they are not registered in the Republic of Croatia and the number of protection workshops is currently five. It is Suvenir Arbor Syrac, Uriho, Des, Tekop Nova Pula and Lada d.o.o. We also have three task force protection units, i.e. private organisational units among individual employers in which persons with disabilities are the Central Professional School in Varazdin, Hrast export, Puklavec d.o.o. and IPA Biokalnik, paper packaging industry d.o.o. The applicable law lays down the conditions for obtaining the status of a protection workshop in the sense that it is every institution or company that employs at least 51% of people with disabilities in relation to the total number of employees and exclusively in the workplaces. It should be clarified here that protection jobs, that they are jobs that require the simplest work operations and usually are carried out by people with disabilities who have identified greater difficulties in working or persons with the most difficult forms of disability. The introduction of a quota obligation to employ persons with disabilities or the possibility of replacing the quota by means of a business cooperation contract has offered them a number of jobs. However, the practice has shown that protection workshops with such a high share of disabled persons, precisely in job protection, 51% of them, are not able to carry out all these tasks in quality time. In addition, the criteria of 51% of people with disabilities in job protection are difficult to achieve because of the natural outflow of people with disabilities. In view of these assumptions that need to be fulfilled that a person with disabilities can work in a job, as well as the job requirements themselves, it is not to be expected that all the vacant jobs will continue to be protective jobs. Also, limiting the factor is the fact that there are currently not enough persons with disabilities assessed by the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation as persons employed exclusively in job protection. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the law continue to retain the basic criterion by which the protection workshop must employ 51% of people with disabilities in relation to the total number of employees themselves, while the criterion of the number of persons employed in the workplaces proposes to be mitigated in a way that is 20%. So, under new conditions, protection workshops will still be obliged to employ 51% of people with disabilities compared to the total number of employees, but 20% of them will be in job protection. In this way we retain the Institute of Protection Jobs and prevent discrimination against people with the most difficult forms of disability but we also take into account restrictive circumstances in the business of protection workshops. In addition, these amendments and amendments to the law propose to comply with the Labour Act, which stipulates that one member of the Governing Council of the Institution must be a representative of the worker appointed and recalled by the Workers' Council or workers in the elections if the working council is not justified. In this respect, it proposes to amend the composition and increase the total number of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Arts, from 7 to 9 respectively, in order to meet the criteria for the worker representative to comply with the Labour Act and another representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to have an odd number of members. In addition, these amendments and additions to the law are more specifically determined by the work of the Institute of Arts and, among other things, the identification of disability. Namely, the Institute in the process of skillful and interdisciplinary approach determines the disability of a person who is being trained. The establishment of disability shall be carried out in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, or in accordance with the bio-psycho-social model, taking into account the damage to the organism as well as the functional capable person i.e. its limitations and potentials. In addition to these key amendments and amendments to the laws, a correction of certain provisions is also proposed for the sake of clarity and accuracy of expressions and new technical finishing. Finally, it is important to note that, in the very process of amending and supplementing this law, all relevant institutions as well as the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities were very actively involved, representatives of the Associations for Persons with Disabilities who were an extremely important partner to us. Some of their proposals, such as the proposal to exempt persons with disabilities from the obligation of quota employment, are not adopted solely because of the fact that they are not subject to the regulation of this law, but will certainly be considered and regulated in an appropriate manner when amending and supplementing sublegal acts, i.e. regulations themselves. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51079	Thank you to the secretary of state. We have four replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51080	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mrs Majdić, in your presentation, you mentioned, now I don't know, whether it's correct, as regards the quota, in employers, employment, you said 3%, in Art. 8. The law provides for a minimum of 2 to 6%. That part didn't touch, so I'm curious exactly what percentage you meant by 3%. And what I've come up to, anyway, is just to get something out of practice a little bit of attention on rehab terms, it's certainly a person in an eyewitness. Namely, in the eyewitness, the person has to have 90% of the body damage due to loss of vision, 70% for loss of hearing, 90 total body weight, not individually exceeding 70. Why am I telling you this? In fact, the practice has shown a lot, and we can see from the indicators that you have already made for 2016, where the drastic decline of persons with disabilities is, that employers prefer to pay a fine of 30% minimum wage in the previous month. Namely, why are they doing this? Because 70% means finding a person with 70% disability isn't easy and putting him on the right job. So these persons must, of course, make a clear contribution and the purpose of this law is that they are involved in the work of employers, and thus also in society. But they choose or certain external ones, as provided for in the law, which is a good thing, the external communities on which the quota can be met or rather paid the penalty. My proposal would actually be that, or we have a lot of our fellow citizens who have less than 70% disability, which can't be registered as an eyewitness. Are these primarily women, perhaps on whom she was done... So the removal of the uterus, which I had as the employer of the problem, where they cannot perform certain physical tasks, must not, of course, be done in accordance with the profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, maybe eventually you're thinking about the future, a certain sliding measure to include those with less than a percent disability, not just those who are... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51081	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51082	Thank you, Your Honor. What should be accepted and particularly highlighted is that the current law, which is currently prescribed 3%, of the total number of employees, and what you have stated, 2-6%, was in your law until 2014. In addition, recently at the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Committee on the Working Pension System and the Social Partnership, was sent a memo, with concrete figures, related to the employment obligation quota and in that letter itself, and I believe that you received it, too, stands the figure, of 10555 persons enrolled in the obvious, persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51083	Okay. Two replicas, a respected colleague of Liposchack's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51084	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with associates. I must say, at first, that I welcome this bill of law. In fact, any improvement, related to such a subject, is essential and welcome. What makes me particularly happy is that this proposal allows people with disabilities to be directly referred to in a rehabilitation assessment at the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation. Why? It was precisely because so far the legal solutions provided for the first artificialing of the competent body, i.e. the articulation process itself. And that's where there were actually a lot of problems, not only in this case, but also in the case of the child with disabilities, but I'm going to talk about it some other time. And the artisan itself could last too long and often be braked by day, that is, the ultimate goal. Since 2015, quota employment has also been introduced, where the employer, as you said, with more than 20 employees, has the obligation to employ a number of people with disabilities. I want to stress here that people who are employed in this way are not just quotas. Often, because of their disability, they are forced to invest even more effort and effort in doing their day - to - day work. What is saddening and saddening is that very often these persons are employed in jobs with inadequate professional equipment and underpaid jobs. As a bright example, I can give you an example of my fellow citizen, and a friend of Miljenko Vukic, who, despite his disability, has been doing his job neatly in the city administration of the city of Ogulin for years, has been running a parallel with the association of blind Ogulins through which he is currently opening new jobs through projects. He is also a regular participant of all major European and world athletic competitions for people with disabilities and prides of the Croatian Paralympic. And in the end, I'm just gonna say it again, people with disabilities aren't just quotas. It is up to us to give them the opportunity and most importantly to give them the opportunity in adequate jobs, which correspond to their professional preparation, not in a way that meets certain legal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51085	Okay. 3 replicas, esteemed colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51086	Thank you very much. The basic task of this law is to hire people with disabilities. The ministry and the government obviously want to play that role with this law. Because if you allow it to be 20% of the protection space in a protective workshop, you're destroying the concept of this law. Because clearly 50% of people with disabilities can be employed. But it's the aim of the safety workshop to be to those who need special places. Because someone who, for example, has damages to 30,40% of the spine and is enrolled in an eyewitness, doesn't need a specially adjusted workplace and it falls into these 50% disabled persons. I don't know why it's the government and the ministry's intensity to change in this way the definition of a protection workshop. Because its main role is that those of our fellow citizens, so those with disabilities who need to adapt to the workplace, that their jobs are adjusted to their abilities, we are now reducing that to 20%. Or it's an initiative to give these 369 million unallocated to those who don't need it. And that, at once, thousands of protection workshops are created in Croatia, from which people with disabilities will not benefit at all. What you're proposing now is the negation of the law and that's what you shouldn't have done. I don't see any reason or reason to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51087	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51088	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Gristle, that's not true. The intensity of this law is just to ease the conditions for acquiring a protection workshop. And what needs to be pointed out once again specifically is that 51% of people with disabilities and 20% of job protection. And what we should point out in this sense is that the people who are employed in Croatia in these protective places have contracts and are paid for it. And this is one of the good examples that Croatia can also boast in the context of the EU because in the EU people in protective jobs receive benefits and we in the Republic of Croatia have working contracts. So this is exactly the opposite of what you're saying, this makes it easier to get protection workshops and actually only changes the percentage of jobs and not the percentage that says how many people with disabilities should be involved and that remains 51%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51089	And the last replica, dear colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51090	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, following closely your exposure and in fact regarding the amendment and addition of the Professional Rehabilitation Act should be noted as follows. So it was adopted in 2013, it was amended in 2014 and again in 2015 and now we are going to change and supplement this law. So, what am I saying? You need to listen to all those people who care about this law. It is good that you also respected the opinions of all those who were with you and not only in the task force but also those who were in public consultation. As far as this public consultation is concerned, I'd like to ask you the following. So the lawyer for disabled persons says that certain associations of disabled persons in their employment do not have to respect that decision of quota employment and common sense requires, you have here in public consultation Association of persons with disabilities Imotski who have 26 employees, so for people with disabilities. Logically, if we hire assistants for people with disabilities, we'll paint how a paraplegic or quadriplegic will hire a paraplegic person to be his assistant. So you're looking for a person who's not a person with disabilities. That's what you need to think about. And in the end, you might have said, or I'm the one who heard that certain sublaws might regulate this part. If I've heard that correctly, it would be good to repeat it, precisely because of these associations for people with disabilities that we actually penalize because of quota employment, which they need because they get from projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51091	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51092	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. Yes, I've already pointed out in the opening statement that what you're talking about and these are associations for people with disabilities that it will be, that it's the subject of the regulation that solves that part and we've been very, very good at communicating with Mrs. Ombudsman for people with disabilities, and that's what's pointed out in the opening statement itself. So the subject you're talking about is not the subject of the law, but the rules and regulations will regulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51093	Thank you, too. And now we're moving on to committees. Excuse me, just a minute, we're moving on to the boards. Do any of the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague of Maras, chairman of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51094	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held at the 20th session on 22 September 2017 discussed this Proposal for a Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons for Disabilities and as a parent body. After the opening presentation of the motionary and the arguments which were approximately similar to what we heard here today, the committee held a debate, we discussed facilitating the acquisition of the status of a protection workshop which means no longer having 51% of people with disabilities in the protection jobs already 20, which is one of the most significant changes. Other things that make it easier or should allow for simpler employment of persons with disabilities of 250 thousand at the working age in Croatia. At this point, it is also pointed out that out of these 250 thousand only 7204, according to Croatian Employment Service data, they are looking for a job on HZZ which says not that everyone else is employed, or that they have no problem but is saying that this problem should be dealt with more systematically and try to avoid, or to avoid, a law that ultimately will not allow most of these people to have the same or even better job opportunities than they have so far. On this side, after the debate was held, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that it should conclude that the draft law and amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, P.Z.E. No. 170. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51095	Thank you. I'm opening the debate now, first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51096	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honors Secretary of State, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The Ministry cited the reasons for amending and supplementing the applicable law in the need to remove and address certain shortcomings and ambiguities observed during its application, i.e. to speed up and facilitate the inclusion of unemployed persons with disabilities in the professional rehabilitation process. The MOST Club will therefore support these changes, although this law is certainly insufficient to allow all persons professional rehabilitation and to offer them employment. It is therefore positive that by amending the law, it is proposed to directly refer persons with disabilities directly to the centres for professional rehabilitation to a rehabilitation assessment without the need for prior skill as provided for by the applicable law, which was the highest of time and patience. So far, people with disabilities had to first pass the skill process and only then have the decision of the experts referred to a rehabilitation assessment at the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, which significantly slowed its inclusion in the labour market. The proposed amendments allow direct references of persons to the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation and on the basis of the results of rehabilitation of the evaluation, HZZ advisers will receive all information necessary for the purpose of preparing persons with disabilities for employment. Furthermore, following the UN Recommendation on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to provide employment and work with support, I would like to point out once again the importance and need for a working assistant of persons with disabilities to be provided. Therefore, according to the applicable Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and the Employment Encouragement Regulations, work assistant services provided for in the form of professional support at work but still insufficient numbers. Therefore, the ministry's recommendation should be further developed and complemented by the regulation that regulates it. However, what is devastating is that only 3 out of 20 ministries, even less than a year ago, have fulfilled the quota employment obligation of disabled persons, namely the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs and the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, according to the 2016 Labour Report of the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities. The obligation of this quota employment system is all employers who employ at least 20 workers, the quota is set at 3% compared to the total number of employees. Although the employer cannot employ the required number of persons with disabilities, the prescribed quota may be fulfilled by the so-called ‘requirement’. the replacement quota. For example, by concluding one or more contracts of business cooperation with a person with a self-employed disability, by announcing a scholarship, etc. According to the report, the 8 720 quota-employees in the process last year, only 1 048 fulfilled this obligation. In particular, more than 4 060 paid cash for the non-employment of people with disabilities in the name of the fund in charge of nearly 179 million kunas last year. On the other hand, at the end of last year, there were 979 employers who hired more persons with disabilities than the prescribed quota or who hired them even though they did not have to do so both those companies and these employers should certainly highlight and promote media as a real example to others. And for the end of a few final words about the protection workshops. The law of professional rehabilitation of employment of disabled persons provides for the establishment of protection workshops with the aim of hiring people with disabilities who are not employed in the open labour market and who need the highest level of support. For the employment of these persons in protective workshops, employment in a workplace is a job tailored to the skills and needs of disabled persons. Today, five protection workshops and 3 protection units operate in Croatia where 509 persons are employed in total and should be noted that they are almost tenfold less than Germany or Macedonia, although we therefore believe that changes to the laws that would have been necessary for the status of a protection workshop to be acquired and an institution or a company that employs at least 20% of people with disabilities in the workplaces. The MOST Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51097	All right, we have four replicas. First of all, he's a respected colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51098	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, in your discussion, you mentioned the natural problem of hiring people and people with disabilities and what is particularly concerned is the data that we received from the Employment Office means from persons who are persons who are working and who can actively participate in the Employment Service, registered only 7000 and 3%, respectively, of the total number of people with disabilities. Which suggests that people do not register, or see how the state can help them and thus make it easier for them to work. It signals the most to me, that even with the law that we have, and with the improvements that we are going to bring now, that people are not aware there, nor is it in practice that this someone is easier to come by if they are disabled to a particular job. Or you didn't popularize it among employers. Because if people, and certainly more than three percent of them are registered at the Employment Service. So if it's at the Bureau, let's say it's registered now to some 250,000 people, and if we take the percentages that are disabled, they're more than 7,000. So people don't log in, because they don't see the possibility of achieving certain benefits or those benefits being presented, maybe even employers who could hire them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51099	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51100	Well, I agree with you completely. We can make perfect laws, but if we don't have people's consciousness through the media about this problem, it won't mean anything to us. I worked at school for 20 years, so I remember how much resistance we had in school alone when we received a disabled person, because parents were afraid that this person wouldn't be professional enough to work with their children. And then when they saw how professional that person was and how much the children loved her, the consciousness changed. If you need to... In laws, you need to change people's minds then you'll... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to improve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51101	Thank you. Second replica of the esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague, in your presentation, I'd like to point out that non-employment of persons with disabilities, by the ministries and other public institutions. I just want to tell you, maybe you don't know it, but here's no renegade to point out that one of the problems is so weak, I would say, employment, undefined reasonable adjustments. This law also solves this, because if you can't and you don't have the opportunity to adapt to a person with disabilities, to participate equally in tests, to enter into an institution that should be employed equally with others. And the individual adjustment, it causes such a huge cost to an employer who would be inappropriate, then you can't expect employment. Of course, in, I would say, in the circles of people with disabilities, the opinion prevails that despite undefined reasonable adjustments, there could still be a slightly greater number of employment of people with disabilities, but here I believe that these changes and additions of the law will be resolved and resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51103	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51104	I agree with you that not only do the ministries have no adjustment, but one of the most basic institutions as a school have no adjustment. I remember when she was a student who was in a wheelchair and my school didn't have an elevator. And since the physics and chemistry cabinets were upstairs, then me and the janitor carried that person up to the floor in our hands every hour. And we're full of words of education and curricular reform and we haven't solved the most basic things, like an elevator or things like that. So here, schools don't have access, let alone the ministry. And it needs to be solved and the situation will improve.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51105	3 replicas, esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51106	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you said employers don't pay. The truth is... A report almost half of those who need to pay because they don't hire people with disabilities, and they should. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't pay a fee. This law allows them to do it legally. Because if it's not in the JPD form, there's no way the Bureau can see that the employer didn't pay the quota contribution. It will be seen at the end through the OIB because with the JPD form you can see every month whether someone has paid or not. And I don't see why it's being abolished, given that the JPPD pattern is an electronic form, which has been in use for three years now. The employers are used to it. Only if we don't want employers who don't pay, they keep on paying. Because through the OIB, you can make up for it when at what time, I guess the Bureau will know what time they're going to do it, and with the JPPD pattern, you can know right away. Therefore, these four, nearly 4,000 employers, which 3100 employers, who do not pay or pay in part, will no longer pay at all. They will continue to deafen, nor will the Bureau have the opportunity to track them down, and then, with a solution, to charge them with what they owe to the Bureau. I don't see why it's done. The only thing we say all the time is that this government obviously goes hand in hand to employers, so that in this way it enables them to further enrich the back of workers, i.e. persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51107	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51108	Dear fellow Mrsic, if that is true, there are representatives of the government or the ministry who will probably respect this proposal, I personally believe that employers who do not pay who avoid being on a pillar of shame and in the media, and employers who have persons with disabilities and over the quota must be promoted to the media as an example of healthy business in the Republic of Croatia. So if this proposal of yours makes sense, I believe that the government or the ministry will respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51109	Thank you. And the last replica of my esteemed colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51110	Dear President of the Parliament. Your Honor, in your presentation, you mentioned the legal obligation of all employers who have over 20 employees to employ disabled persons in the 3% quota. According to data from the Employment Office at the moment there are about 7705 people with disabilities and that is cca 2.2% of the total unemployed. In the first three months of this year, 418 people with disabilities were employed. Most of them were employed in the city of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Primorje-Gorski County. Do you think it's fulfilling a legal obligation or maybe it's an outflow of healthy, young labour abroad?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51111	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51112	Dear colleague Kirin, I think both things are at stake. So you can see the disproportionateness in certain units of local self-government, richer cities have a much higher percentage and that again we say that every law and this law touches Croatian realities. So certain units of local self-government that have less resources can't fill it, richer cities can, but what's important is that in these units of local self-government we change people's consciousness that it's good, that the shifts happen and I believe here's the shift ten years ago and today to see and to go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51113	This is what we came to the end of the line. We now move on to the discussion of the HDZ Club of Representatives and the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing as we have already heard about the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. These are his other changes since his adoption in 2013. Persons with disabilities were generally not fully satisfied with this law. Although we must say he did bring improvement in the employment of persons. with disability, this is also seen from HZZ data. Much of it is also important that people with disabilities have started hiring, not only because of the application of this law, but also because of their education. We have to say that people with disabilities have been conscious lately, so they want to go further to school, which was not the case because they listened to their parents tell them that it might not be for them. With these amendments and additions to the law, I would say that people with disabilities will be made easier to break into the open labour market, and then easier to hire and under protective conditions. These few amendments, which the secretary of state has explained very extensively and in detail, are extremely important. Like that. as said, these changes will speed up and facilitate the inclusion of unemployed persons with disabilities in the process of professional rehabilitation. As far as professional rehabilitation is concerned, it is extremely important that it finally comes to life in the Republic of Croatia. As much as we bring in good regulations in terms of hiring a disabled person, so much is one regulation that we will have to change, which is the Pension Insurance Act that determines how much the benefits are during professional rehabilitation. It will need to be increased given that the persons with disabilities themselves when you refer them to a professional rehabilitation system do not want to simply go because often this fee is less than sick and therefore avoids professional rehabilitation, and thus their future employment is very, very questionable. In order for the system of professional rehabilitation to be implemented in the best possible way, we are extremely important centres for professional rehabilitation, which are finally given a certain level of efficiency, we will give them a certain part of the funding from this fee because it was not realized that what was imagined when this law was passed, and this is that the centres for professional rehabilitation will be able to finance from their services, it is simply not possible. And here these changes will allow them to start working in the best way possible so that they can cover their regions and can implement people with disabilities through a system of professional rehabilitation. Furthermore, it is extremely important to have quota employment. And by passing this law in 2013, I would say that it caused boom in the open labour market, since employers knew nothing about it and many, I would say, did not want to know anything, and unfortunately some still today. Through quota employment, therefore, an employer who does not meet quota employment does not employ a disabled person, so he does not use any other replacement quota that the law provides for must pay the fee that our employers are on not so long ago and I believe that you have all had the opportunity to hear that said it was an imposition. I share the satisfaction that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry have taken the view that this fee will not be abolished or reduced but that employers can if they do not want it and cannot pay the choice of a series of quotas offered by the law and that they can thus fulfil their legal obligation. And those newly founded will be freed from paying this obligation. We think it's logical until they say they don't stand on their feet. And what we have to say is that the offer of people with disabilities regarding their education is in pretty bad shape. And education is what we're going to have to make sure that people with disabilities don't get educated anymore for jobs that are absolutely not wanted on the labour market. Unfortunately, it's still happening today. As much as the system facilitates and enables people with disabilities to function in society and so in the education system so much is the person with disabilities himself, I would say they must start and realize that only their quality education and their employment can contribute to their quality life. As far as protection workshops and these 20% employment obligations are concerned, 51% of people with disabilities remain. However, 20% in the workplaces and for that reason and not as I said earlier, partly because the reasonable adjustment was not established by this law. The intensity is also what I think and many people with disabilities, as well as protection workshops, that each job is a job protection. And that's what we were saying when we passed this law, but now, until the reasonable adjustment system is functioning, it was simply not possible to lift the general protection jobs and say that all 51% of jobs are protected because we also have to allow the protection workshops a certain period of adjustment. When this law was passed in 2013, something was to happen which would be extremely bad for the position of persons with disabilities and their employment, which is the abolition of the protection workshops. Unfortunately, we have fought that, with severe suffering, unfortunately, but we have fought to keep the protection workshops, there are few as you have heard, as the secretary of state said, only a few in the Republic of Croatia but have opportunities to establish. And here I am looking forward to finally, soon, having the first integration workshop in the Republic of Croatia, it will be our popular Hedona from the Cross, so people with disabilities have decided on that kind of employment through the system of integration workshops. As for further employment of persons with disabilities, I think it is extremely important to note how important it is that people with disabilities are employed as much as possible in the open labour market and then that part of people with disabilities who can't find a job on the open labour market to be employed in protective or integrated workshops. And therefore, of course, professional rehabilitation is extremely important, so for several years in Croatia, it has been possible for those with disabilities who have not had the opportunity to work anywhere in the workplaces and through virtual workshops in the framework of a protection workshop to prepare for their new job and I must tell you that a large part of the people with disabilities who have passed the rehabilitation in the virtual workshop system are being employed right on the open labour market. Almost 60% of them. I believe that this law, as I have already mentioned, will bring people with disabilities what they wanted and that this law will finally, at last, make me particularly happy, and that is what the secretary of state and noted, finally enables the Office of Arts to determine disability. Since its application from 2014 to today, we have no possibility and no one in the Republic of Croatia except for Croatian military disableds has a record of being a disabled person. This is what we have finally made possible by these amendments and additions to the Institute of Art, at first there will be a conviction that someone with disabilities and ultimately for a certain time, we expect that this will be a solution that every person with disabilities will be able to prove their status. The establishment of disability is not only important for the employment of persons with disabilities, it is important for the exercise of rights in all other systems. I believe that we will finally be able to even know how many people with disabilities we have in the Republic of Croatia because then we will see the difference between physical damage and disability. It is not necessary that any physical damage caused disability, so I believe that these changes and complements are exclusively for the benefit of people with disabilities, protective integration workshops and all employers in the open labour market. And here, at the end of my presentation, I want to say once again thank you to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resolute Ministry for recognising that this law is the first law that needs to be changed and that applies to persons with disabilities. The HDZ Club supports changes and additions to this law in first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51115	Thank you very much, very much, very much. There are no replicas at its presentation and we continue on behalf of the HDS Representatives Club, HSLS, HDSSB, representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51116	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I speak on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. Under a law called the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I've already discussed some of this law on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, so I'm going to be relatively brief. I'm always interested in one law in what is the intention of this law and what messages it sends, not this one, but every law. It's here if I can read the intention of easier hiring people with disabilities and this law should regulate it. In addition, the message would be to the public the adoption of this law or its basic provisions or such as it is or even better that will arise after the second reading, what kind of state do we want? This law has a much greater meaning than employment itself. It brings a message of whether we have given up on the social state, whether we have accepted the large and main characteristics of the market, exclusively market economy and terror markets, brings a message about what kind of state we are or what we want to be. That's why I like it, he left here with a colleague of Maras who said that the state can help people with disabilities, that's a message that seems very important to me because helping someone with disabilities means helping someone who is at a certain level damaged and giving him the opportunity to in his human abilities, and which... What's important is to say, they don't have to be less in certain segments than those that are so-called. No disability, no disability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll just point out the fact that, in time, the Nobel Prize for Economics was given to an American who suffered from schizophrenia. So I come here immediately to the idea and to the meaning of disability as such. We have to do everything through this law, that certain, I say certain biological dysfunction, doesn't mean that this person is less valuable and that it can't be as valuable to society as to one who doesn't have that dysfunction. The disability can also be based on mental function or mental disturbances. The psychics I'd say were cleavages in a certain part. The example that I mentioned earlier suggests that this does not necessarily have to be a handicap, but must be an incentive. If you want, I can set an example of painters who are hyperrealists. The way they create images, none of us can create it because it doesn't have such a psychic structure that it can. That doesn't mean they're sick or disabled. However, what disability brings, surely under circumstances, when it is not regulated in the right way, by the right attitude of citizens and fellow citizens towards such people, brings very often social isolation, it has a significant impact on the quality of life and, in fact, represents, in a certain way, so-called. healthy environments. The question is how healthy and reasonable and moral and sensitive that environment is in a human sense. That's why every law of this kind is supported and supported. And every good idea, every good idea, just before I heard from my colleague Mrsic that it is not wise to remove a particular form, where it is controlled how those who are obliged to act under this law meet their obligations. I fully support this colleague in that, that there is no point in removing any detail, that would send a message or make a commitment to such people, that it is a very serious thing and that there is no one right to play with it. I especially want to say a few sentences about the problem of the art of these people. That's what I was talking about on the board. Unfortunately, the number of witches alone, the number of witches alone, is not a sufficient factor that would lead us to believe that the problem has been solved. Skillful persons with disabilities must make up the best experts in all areas, because a man is very complex and the disability is in itself very complex. Physical disability can have a profound effect on mental function, and mental function can affect general disability. That's why you need to take care of yourself, I've told you that, about which people witch. They can't be artists of people who don't have professional experience in a particular area, nor can it be a place just to hire doctors who have passed some course and who, according to the art schemes, every man, every person with disabilities is a special story and because of that, I think it's very important, that they work there either occasionally or constantly anyway, people who have experience and clinical and each other in the assessment of disability. If that happens, I assure you, that the grades of people who have been on the art field will be such that there will be mistakes and then, but will bring a lot of laundry savings, much more pleasure and much better functioning of the complete system. I'm not just saying this, I'm just saying it from experience because I've been faced with the facts of unfortunately the commission for the best reason they don't understand the problem. This is just as much as a note. The party advocates' club in front of which we speak will support this law, perhaps we are going with which amendment and I would like to implement here in this change of law the problems of justice, sociality, empathy to the satisfaction of people with disabilities, to the satisfaction of all of us because this law concerns all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51117	Thank you very much to Agent Goran Dodig. We have two replicas on his exhibit. The first replica is from Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Dodig, in your presentation, you have in some way caused fear that, by removing this form for employers, it will come to the conclusion that certain employers do not pay the fee that is laid down by law. You need to know that this is not going to happen, since the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities through the OIB have very simple information about all employers and can check who paid the fee and who didn't. And believe me, they take very good care of it, we have insight into the fact that they're very careful about who hasn't paid and they're sending warnings, etc. So there's no fear of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51119	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51120	I accept if it is so there's no reason not to believe you, but listening to my colleague Mrsic, I thought he was worried about it. And it seems to me that here we all want to do something for people with disabilities, so I don't see this as a party shooting but simply as a wish to make everyone as good a law as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51121	Thank you very much. The next replica to the presentation of Representative Dodig as a replica from Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51122	My colleague Dodig, we disagree in a lot of things, and here we agree that I would sign your discussion from the beginning to the end and it is not true that by removing the JOPPD pattern that everything will remain the same because, according to the OIB, you can control it, but by the JOPPD form, you can sanction it because the JOPPD form is a form of the Tax Administration that has forced collection mechanisms. And I don't see why this item so payment of quotas is being thrown out of the JOPPD form. Therefore, the JOPPD form is electronic, it does not do any damage to the employer, it is automatic, therefore there is no reason, unless it wants to be granted to certain employers who are now not paying with this control of the OIB of the Institute, sending notices, JOPPD, tax, control and everything else again 3100 or does not meet or partially meet. And now we're removing another control mechanism that's very simple, which is on a monthly basis. What makes the Bureau know that someone doesn't pay, or is it necessary to hire another 30, 40 people in an office that will then go through all the OIBs every day and see if that employer paid or didn't pay? Very simple JOPPD pattern you can extract it electronically, it gives you APIS. What's going to happen now? What's going to happen now? What's going to have a special program from the OIB where they're going to ask the employers who paid for it, or that's the problem. I don't see why the government does it because nothing, so very simply APIS gives you a list that day when someone paid or didn't, unless you go to the employer's hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51123	Thank you very much for representing Miranda Mrsic. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51124	My colleague Mrssic, I understand you only at the wrong address you wrote, I accept that, I would like to be as safe as possible and as best as possible. So I accept the fact that you've been working on this problem, that you know it better than I do, that your intentions are good and there's no reason not to respect it, as far as I'm concerned, and whatever.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51125	Thank you very much for your response to the replica. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS is Representative Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51126	Thank you, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys and other representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will, of course, accept any law that leads to facilitating the integration of persons with disabilities into society and the implementation of professional rehabilitation and thus this proposal to amend and supplement the law. In fact, some of the things that are improving these changes are acceptable, above all it proposes to extend the purpose of the funds collected with the basis of a monetary reward for those employers who do not have a quota that can also be used for the sustainability and development of the system of professional rehabilitation itself. In fact, what is mentioned in this proposal and we see from statistics that almost 40% of people with disabilities are employed than in 2014 while 2016 is already 9.2. Obviously, and that's what I've come up with earlier in the replica, to get a certain pool, and we've seen and we've heard here that the total is about 10.5 thousand people, and here we spoke in 2015, 2600, then 2853 in 2016, 2014. 1800 therefore surely that the first wave of the law itself was good and the first wave was filled, of course now we must move on to how to make other things, that the more people involved there and the meaning of that law is. What I have and as a recent and employer was a problem and what I want here is highlighted are the problems that happen in practice. Namely, in the eyewitness as a basic let’s say a document based on which persons and persons who recognise disability can acquire the conditions for, obtaining the terms of employment of the person from the fulfillment of the quota and certain reliefs says that there are persons who, of course, recognise the disabled by different regulations and persons with disabilities, who have at least 60% of the physical impairment due to loss, or functional lower extremity disorder, 70% of the physical impairment due to loss, or 90% of the total physical damage in the case of several different physical damages, with no less than 70% individually. I, as an employer, had a very difficult problem with a company of over 120 employees. By the way, in the replica and the law, it states in Articles 8 to 6% on the number of employees if it is more than 20 that the quota has to be met, but colleagues warned from the ministry, or pointed out that 3%, the regulation defines it as a minimum that it is very difficult to find depending on the activity of a particular company. To go to a larpurartism or to hire a person only to hire them will not do anyone any good, and at least because she must feel that she contributes, she must know there that because she will work and contribute to the company, whether public or private, not only because she is disabled, or has a certain reduced physical, or working capacity because she does not have complete incompetence. And then we bring in, especially with companies that do some and physical jobs, manual jobs, so let's say offices where there aren't, many private companies in particular have no availability if we're talking about the location itself, the headquarters of the company, are not available to people with disabilities, so that's already the first obstacle to employment. It may sound banal, but that's right. Then, of course, it might be the law and, in the future, predict it, so for those who want to meet it and have no idea that certain reliefs or incentives are given to remove these obstacles, we talk about private ones, public institutions have, above all, that but even some public companies do not have an easier approach, so that is one direction to go. And then we come to a situation, both private and public, which is easier to pay a fine that is 30% of the minimum wage amount for the period for which the quota was to be met. And that's why I'm saying it's commendable that it's expanding the scope of what it's done to use those funds that are primarily used to cancel out the very reliefs that employers who hire but those in the account are doing if they're watching, so I'd better pay 30% of the minimum wage than I can now do something with a man just because that's how the law prescribed that I have it. So my goal may be, so here we have reached some limit of 70% disability. We have and this is the same colleague well noticed that not all physical damages are not disability but that we have certain physical damages that have a more significant percentage of the reduction in working ability of up to 50%, which are not covered by these. I'm not saying that they should have the same relief but I as an employer had a lot of employees of my own who because of physical labor had to be here under... operational procedures and have reduced workability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's no relief on them, the employer doesn't know what to do with them, God forbid they're on a set, they're certainly not going to be extended to the contract, and even if six months, someone has to wait to get back to work at the same time because of course you can't forbid someone who can't do a particular job that he's qualified to do, especially if we're talking about cleaners or other manual occupations. So in that sphere, it's a lot of our fellow citizens who may not have entered the eyewitness, who have a problem especially when we talk about structures. When we talk about administrative affairs here, of course, then there's a matter of profession. And that is why the question of that rehabilitation professionally is that they are just qualified for those jobs that they can do and that is the meaning, one of the most important meanings of this law because everyone has, of course, that these are accounting jobs, administrative, legal, human or any other business in any company that implies office work, provided that I have already said that it is possible for this person and that it can come to the job itself, it may also sound banal but it is a serious assumption that this law should then be given to us much more, much more. Of course you don't stop at that. Because when the professional rehabilitation is over, it doesn't mean we've got the finished man. We know that the experience of kudikamo is sometimes much more important than the paper itself. This means that we try and it is stated in the law of professional training that it is also included and that it can also be completed with the quota, to see a step further how these persons can gain a certain working experience and advantage on the market that can indeed contribute equally to the development of a particular company in which they are created and, of course, the purpose of their integration into society itself. And in fact, in that direction, we should think about it and, of course, once again, the HNS Club will support these changes, and even any changes that contribute to the improvement and standard of our citizens are welcome, and here I hope, I am glad that we have removed that doubt in the percentages of the number of employees compared to the number of workers, so that's regulation 3... Fixed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is absolutely commendable, but I hope that these specific suggestions that come from the field will be considered too, which we simply encounter in the implementation of such difficulties regardless of the good intentions we go to try as many of these people as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51127	Thank you very much for representing Stephen Curai. At his presentation, we have one replica from MP Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51128	My dear colleague, you are also an entrepreneur and I'm wondering if the institution is in charge of implementing this law has ever received any initiative to help your company adjust their jobs so that they can hire people with disabilities because by law, you can. So if you're hiring a person with a disability to build even an elevator, so if there's stairs and a ramp, so you can get it from an office and you can get it completely free because that's what law enforcement is, which is why odds are paid, quotas are not paid to punish employers, penalties are imposed on those who don't pay, but on the other hand, it's the intensity that all these funds are returned to employers to adjust their jobs and that they can employ more persons with disabilities. So I'm wondering if you've ever been contacted by an office and have you been offered to adjust your company's workplace to a disabled person? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51129	Thank you very much for representing Miranda Mrsic. The answer to the line. Representative Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51130	Thank you. My colleague Mrsić, therefore, in my personal experience that this law has come into force means that for 3, 4 years, I have not received any such memos that have been made available to them, what we have contacted certain associations that gather persons with disabilities and through them and through competitions, or they have sent us a number of our members from among whom we have chosen one who has also completed the conditions in the eyewitness and has absolutely been incorporated in the company itself, so he could contribute. But this part, the answer to your question, so we didn't get in the form of a memo, the information on my desk didn't come and maybe there was some topic that it was, that it was the cost or mail or paper that made it possible for everyone to get on some wider platform from HGK or craft chamber to include all employers and especially public companies and it absolutely agrees with them that they should do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51131	Thank you very much, very much, very much. We are now continuing to present on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would be more pleased if you discussed today's report on the work of the employment office for people with disabilities and professional rehabilitation than about kidnapping to change the law. I'd be happy to change the law if they found that the law didn't work and the law itself didn't produce any effects, but that's not true. The law produced effects and produced very significant effects. We have hired more persons with disabilities, they are better and easier to hire so that, in the light of the draft amendments to this law, I miss the crucial part, which is that the report on what and how this law has been shown in practice, and how this law has been done and as far as the employers themselves are concerned, but also what this law has done for persons with disabilities. So there's no record of what the effects are, which is why we're changing this law, which is why we're changing all of this, whether to improve the employment of people with disabilities or to sort of go hand in hand to employers. There are therefore, in the bill of law and certain things which are mandatory and which are good to change but 2/3 of these changes will not bring any better conditions for hiring people with disabilities, nor will they improve the system itself. What I expected from the Government and from the RES is some significant change that would then allow the whole system to be established as best as possible because the whole system is conceived in the way it is in the Republic of Austria, where in the Republic of Austria you have a very well-developed system of professional rehabilitation and that is the second main objective of this law, which is to establish a system of professional rehabilitation in the Republic of Austria that was good one 20 or 30 years ago and then we don't know why, for which reason, simply that system practically disappeared. And people with disabilities left themselves in the wind of the labour market and did not protect them, and because of this law, it was passed. The law is important because employers are aware that they need to hire people with disabilities and it is for certain employers and it has won success, I must say that it has won success in the large employers whose owners are foreigners. I won't mention the names now that I'm not doing that ad, but the entry into force of this law, those great employers who do the same in their own countries, even without forcing the law because it's something that is socially acceptable, have hired a large number of people with disabilities. So, the aim of this law in society is to raise awareness of employers that it is good for society to hire a person with disabilities, that it will be one of the best workers because it has proved that persons with disabilities are people who overheat in their workplace, that they want to work, that they are days from the best workers and on the other hand employers improve the climate in their working environment. So these were the intensities of the law, I'm sorry that in this explanation of this law we're changing it, it's not. It is totally unacceptable that after 3 years of application of this law around 3100, 3200 employers partially pay compensation, because they do not employ a sufficient number of people with disabilities and that this number is practically not moving since 2015. And then instead of working on it, employers pay that quota, we break the obligation to be a JOPPD form. There's counsel Shuker who introduced the OIB, well done. Some order has been introduced into the country and the JOPPD is an instrument that has introduced order in payment and I see no reason why it is, therefore, the payment of the quota being thrown out of the JOPPD forms. And again, it will lead to an even greater non-payment of obligations to employers under this law. I don't see a cut, since it's an electronic form, that employers don't get any expense, fill out POPP forms, and only if they want to go hand in hand to employers, who obviously don't want to pay and don't want to hire people with disabilities. The second frantic data is that on the day of 13.9 this year, 369 million 202 thousand 372 kuna 45 liras of neutral funds on the account of the office. It's something that's inadmissible. Because these funds are meant for employers, for those who meet the quota, that what I have repeatedly stressed, that they are intended, for employers who are socially responsible, to allow them to adapt jobs to people with disabilities. But not just that. I expected that here, based on the resources we didn't spend, we would allow these funds to be given to schools, so that people with disabilities can adapt to schools, to pass the law, and from these funds we would scholarship people with disabilities, to a known employer, because in this way we would raise their level of education and that these funds do not stand, these funds only correspond to the Minister of Finance because they are in the account and receive interest when they are placed somewhere by the banks or the CNB. So that's something the government obviously didn't want to deal with, and it's not because obviously, I was hoping, because of that, when I heard that the law was changing, that it would be one of the reasons that we have, which is at our disposal, we'd spend the best we can on people with disabilities. As far as the workshops themselves are concerned, it is absolutely unacceptable for me to do what is done. The role of the protection workshop is very clear. This employs people with disabilities and people who need special jobs, tailored to their psychophysical abilities. What I'm doing right now is back on the hands of the employers. Croatia does not need 2,000 protection workshops, which will happen with this law. Because if we reduce the number of protection jobs, and we know that protection workshops enjoy special tax treatment, to enjoy special reliefs when employers do business with them, that we will get fictitious protection of the workshop, where people who are disabled will work, because as I have already mentioned spines 30, 40, 50, 60 70% you are a person with disabilities, but you do not need a tailored job. You will not work in a protective workshop, you will work with another employer, and this will create new protection workshops, fictitious, which will allow these unfair employers to earn extra profits on the back of disabled people, persons with disabilities, and to be unfair competition for employers who do their job fairly and hire people with disabilities. So I appeal to the ministry, that these things that are listed in the 2 readings are thrown out and that they think about why they introduced it into the law itself. Of course there are good things, it's one thing to clearly define that the company that started working, that it has a period... a period of 24 months, in order to apply this law to this company and on the other hand, it is a better definition of substitute quotas, because it is something that will also allow for the promotion of employment of persons with disabilities to be promoted as much as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This last, therefore, last amendment that the worker's representative must be in the board of directors and compliance with the law, I would not comment at all. As for the quotas for the association, and if they are not defined by this law, I am absolutely against it, to exempt the associations from this law. Because associations are the ones who gather people with disabilities and they should be the first to show how this law applies, but I totally agree that what is a colleague of Babic, if I listened well, that if you have assistants, who are there, that they are exempt from the number on which the quota is paid. That's another pair of freaks, so that's a different story. So associations must be the first to implement this law, and that does not need to be amended because the institution can assess by its decision which number of jobs are the ones to which this law applies. So I think that the law has been failed, the amendments to the law are missed, it will not bring any better to people with disabilities, it will allow employers to continue to avoid paying quotas, and that these funds will be accumulated in the account and will not be spent on what should be spent, which is to improve the work and life of persons with disabilities. Thank you. Nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51133	Thank you, Agent Miranda Mrsic. At his exhibition we have two replicas, the real replica of the representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51134	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Mrsic, I'd have a lot to say to you right now, but I just don't have time, so I'll just be a little while. The State Secretary will probably explain to you in the final address why it is not true that the form will bring a hit to employers, not disabled persons. You were the minister when the law was passed in 2013, you should have strengthened the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities to start working immediately so some things might be different, unfortunately you did not. It's just amazing to me that you may not have asked, no one was talking about getting rid of all the paying associations, but only those associations of people with disabilities doing social services, only those associations were talking about them, and that's what needs to be done. Can't someone who hires 100 personal assistants have such a commitment because it's simply not possible. Associations don't have systematic funding. As far as the protection workshops are concerned, colleague Mrsic, so remember that they should not have been and you know very well that and that we have fought hard to keep them and that this reduction is not what you say. This will very soon lead us to all jobs within one protection workshop as well as protection jobs. But since there was no reasonable adjustment that would allow all employers and even protection workshops to work properly, simply this is the only way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51135	Thank you. Replicate reply by Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51136	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lukačić. Well, you didn't exactly fight in 2016 when former Minister Šikic wanted to abolish the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, you know that it was an intensities at the time, that it was an emergency for the witches to return to the Pension Insurance Office, you didn't say a word then against it. Now praise the Institute, I am glad that the Institute has held up and that probably no one will ever have the idea to put an end to it and to cut down on its part - time work. Clearly, when something starts at zero, then you can't expect it to work in full glory. It's not even now three years behind the beginning of work yet in full glory, especially this part of art. But the artisan, I listened to you neatly, but the artisan is something that is important for the institute, and for the first time we've raised our salaries to the level of the one they should have and the profession to raise where they should have. And you can't convince me that protective workshops like you say will lead to these protection workshops becoming all of a sudden beautiful, wonderful, wonderful. And you and I both know how hard it is to maintain a single safety workshop, and with this, you're creating an inflation of protective workshops. I'm not sure how this would apply to your employer URIHO unless it was their idea to do so. Therefore, this will lead to inflation of protective workshops that will not actually be a protection workshop but will thus be deceived by the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51137	Thank you very much. And a replica from the representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51138	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mrsic. I listened carefully to your expert debate, a little truth is it's startled me by your assessment that two-thirds of this bill doesn't help people with disabilities to be employed, so two-thirds of the law doesn't do it. In that sense, you pulled the parallel, so you said it was more convenient for entrepreneurs, at least for those entrepreneurs who are trying to abuse the whole legal proposal and in the sense that you said when not publishing the JOPPD forms that they could then hide what they didn't pay. And it seems to me that if it is so that this law stands on the side of the employer, and it does not help the employment of persons and disabilities then it turns out that it is a missed story because the law is real... was on the side of each other and employers to have the motivation to hire persons with disabilities, and eventually to people with disabilities to find a job because you mention this amount that surprised me too, too much money remained unused and that's the whole missing story. If you can still comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51139	Thank you very much for your representative. Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51140	That what I said and in my presentation, I agree and completely with your facility that and then this 329 million is too much money on the account of the Bureau and that I expected these amendments to the law to go in order for these funds to be spent. These are not budget funds, these are funds in a special account of institutions that are again intended to return to employers. I expected it to expand in a way that could return to educational institutions, adjust kindergartens, adapt schools, return to employers for job adjustment, and that's the balance. So you will be paying the funds but we will not take them into the budget but we will return them back to other employers who want to hire people with disabilities. And by removing the JOPPD forms, so you can't see it, and you can see the JOPPD pattern monthly whether or not someone has paid it. APIS can give us a report on whether the employer is paying or not. According to the OIB, I don't believe it, so according to the OIB, the Bureau will have to have their own system where they're going to have to go after the OIB, again, or it's the urgency to hire new 20, 30 people in the office who'll then control it instead of getting a list from the APIS where it tells you right then they had an obligation so much and so much, it didn't pay it that much and so much. And it's e-mailed, so very simple. I don't see why this is done unless you want to please all employers, I don't believe or certain employers who don't pay and we see that they don't pay, but are, already, the institution is already, but the law has been implemented for 3 years, and again it's those 3100 that partially pay or don't pay. So I expected the law to go in that direction, not in reverse, to be even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51141	Thank you, Agent Mrsic. In accordance with Article 184, the government's representative is now looking for a word and this is Mrs Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my intention and need to say a few words in particular about the JOPPD pattern mentioned so much. So let's solve that mystery. It is therefore exclusively about the administrative discharge of entrepreneurs. And if someone really has something against it, then it's sad. Given the JOPPD pattern, the following should be highlighted. It serves exclusively as a reporting system, not as a control system. The control system is still running the ZOSI, so the Bureau and that's what the Bureau is doing. Therefore, in the explanation that has arrived at the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, unfortunately you were not on that committee,... You could have been a non-member. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51143	Okay, please, please, and Mr. Mrsic don't be in the dialogue right now, you have the elements later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51144	This letter therefore states that the number of solutions issued is the obligation to pay cash compensation in 2017 4181. In addition, 9,000 and 189 are employers who are bonds of quota employment and they employ 9,000 120 people with disabilities. There is therefore no mystery related to the administrative discharge of our employers and it goes exclusively with a positive intention and nothing else. In addition, looking at the rules that came into force in 2014 and having to do with the questions that were raised here earlier, I wondered when the rule of encouragement for the employment of persons with disabilities came into effect. This happened in 1.4.2014, and that rule was signed by then by Minister Mr. Mrsic, who had just asked Mr. Curaj whether or not Mr. Curaj had contacted him while he was an employer with a question about whether you needed any funds, etc. It is in this 2014 regulation that you signed that the employer addresses the ZOSI, or agency, with his own initiative. Besides, I'd like to say next. There has been a lot of talk about raising awareness about people with disabilities, however, I absolutely think that we all agree on the need to raise awareness on a continuous basis about people with disabilities, about their needs, possibilities, work skills, etc. But what surprised me then is that in such a high House and the highest House as the Croatian Parliament in the heat of speech instead of mentioning people with disabilities, the word of disabled people sometimes has a little negative connotation, so I think that I really should continue to work on raising awareness about people with disabilities. And it has often been mentioned that the payment of quotas, the payment of quotas in ministries that do not employ enough persons with disabilities, should be stressed here that this law, i.e. amendments and additions of laws, is going in this direction to be extended and defined precisely in that sense that persons with disabilities and during the tendering process, i.e. writing itself, written examinations or interviews, will have the conditions to be allowed, for example. a person who has motor problems of ability to access this written exam in a way that is adapted to the timing of the exams that it is not today. And I think that's exactly one of the reasons why we have a smaller number of people with disabilities in the ministries, i.e. the state administration, since we all know very well what testing looks like and how it's done. Here's a thank you, so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51145	At the presentation of State Secretary Majda Buric, we have one replica, which is a replica from representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51146	The secretary of state, something for a bonton, in the Assembly doesn't address MPs, but well, you'll learn. Administrative discharge, what administrative discharge? Have you ever seen a JOPPD pattern? Have you ever had a chance to see what a JOPPD pattern looks like? Obviously you're not. Because that's the bottom of the screen one form where the employer, the greatest effort to click the mouse is to mark in the JOPPD that for this and that employer it is mandatory to pay the quota. Because it's an administrative discharge? There's no way, so there's just a desire to obviously please employers because what, now that section in that JOPPD form won't be, what administrative discharge? Who? And on the other hand, you yourself said that it was a reporting system that very simply provides you with a report to the institution who did not pay, who was partially paid and based on this JOPPD forms are given solutions out and you go to the OIB. Obviously you want to hire more people at the office, obviously easier for the party, well, that's your way of working and working. The ministries are not meant for the state, let the state adapt itself to the ministry. They're meant for employers. And in a rule that writes exactly but nothing prevents the Bureau from going to employers and offering its services to employers, since 2014, so you must know that the Institute started work on 1.1.2015, that in 2016 the second Government came and that we are now 2 years under other leadership, that the Institute could change that that he wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51147	Thank you, counsel. Answer to his replica, State Secretary Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51148	Thank you. Here, Mr. Mrs., I believe that you have the best intentions, but what needs to be determined is that you haven't strengthened either the ZOSI or the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation at your time, even though I believe you had a good intention. Unfortunately, however, they are not strengthened at that time, what this government of Andreja Plenkovic is doing is just stronger centres for professional rehabilitation and institutions, in addition to that, it should be said Can I go on? [[Intruder Hajdash-Dončić: Please, representatives and MPs, please allow.]] So, what's amazing to me, once again, I'm going to say, that you haven't strengthened the centres for professional rehabilitation or the ZOSI itself, and you're attacking it, and besides, I think that you really need to take a realistic look at the situation and all the blames that have been inherited and that the ZOSI cannot be solved overnight, but what is evident is that the problems are very, very systematically solved and that the Institute is strengthened and that the centres themselves for professional rehabilitation of these changes and the additions of the laws are strengthened and that is the purpose and that is the main objective of course of easier employment and labour market conditions for people with disabilities. And once again, I'm going to ask, what was the 1.4.2014 and what rule was passed and what did it say? It says exactly that part that the employer is intensifying ZOSI, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51149	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. We continue to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, next on behalf of GLASA and HSU Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51150	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, so as not to accidentally make a mistake because it is human but we cannot be like this, let's say under adrenaline and accept any mistake as a deliberate mistake. But I'll say something, so let's let the people who want to. Since 2004, when we passed the first Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, we have had no luck with this system. We're not lucky not because we didn't mean it badly, but we have some opposition and certain blockades all the time. The system wasn't set up badly in 2004. And it wasn't dysfunctional until 2014, but you know well that they are from workers' salaries, so the contribution was paid somewhere around a billion and 200 million in 10 years and in the function of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people was spent somewhere around 600 million. 600 million down the country. Whose funds? Employers' funds. And nothing to anyone. That fact, that position was found by Minister Mrsic and our coalition government. Okay, we said let's try quota employment, let's, let's change some things that pay the one who hires doesn't pay the one who doesn't hire. We have possible compensation methods, i.e., substituting employment, we have a whole range of new measures but an attempt to change access. Of course, there was an unfortunate institution, or an art centre, for which the government received international EU funds. It's a craftsman's office that's being followed by obstructions. Total obstruction. I know and I can call, the former Minister of Labour and Pension System was then the head of all HZMO of her medical staff, i.e., the witches and the beginning disagreed. And she was at the inauguration of that art center was an obstruction of maximum. And don't ask today why so many items were transferred in that year, or we have unsolved ones. Well done, later that stabilized, people came to their senses, the system sort of works. Not good enough, because we only have four centers, we should have 10 already, given the neutral means. Yes, my dear mistress, I can wave my head too, that we'll miss the witches, too, we'll miss the quality people, because the assessment of the remaining work ability, it's no ordinary art. I think at this point, this law, generally unnecessary. Why do I mean it? Well done with good intentions, I respect good intentions. But we haven't cleared up what we could do with the existing law and what its final achievements are. We didn't even try. JOPPD reporting to who? Who cares if it's a mouse-clicking move? Who's got a problem with that? You have all the data, automatically ahead of you. So who's got the choice? Whoever has the information, whoever doesn't have it, who has to ask someone else to make a harder decision. So, you have it today, why do you give it up? What I miss if I go to the novel of this law, look he's just as well decorated, coded, administratively, bureaucraticly beautiful, so that I come as weak as he is beautiful, of beauty. And I'd like you to explain some of the terms. Some concepts as a reasonable adjustment, in what, how, where? The remaining work ability, the art of what? So, we're going to now, according to the proposal of this law, of people, automatically, to shorten the process of art, of their ability to work, according to which workplace? According to the imaginary workplace? General category invalidity can be determined by skill. But the capacity for professional rehabilitation and the remaining work capacity for what? Gentlemen, I've been working on it, I've been working on it, I've been involved in medical commissions, I've been a safety engineer and I've been working on it, I've been working at the shipyard, I know how it's going. The remaining work capacity must be determined by something that is suitable or that we want to professionally rehabilitate. We can't, by heart, practice someone's disability towards an imaginary workplace. Next, I'd like you to put me on the terms of what that means to be a protected workplace? That's not new. That's not new. A protected workplace stands in the law. And that remark goes equally to former Minister Mrsic, because things need to be explained, a protected workplace. Is it for that person with the disability, who we've adapted to the workplace to her disability, is it a protected workplace? Yes, it is. Whether without adjustment, we have a job that corresponds to the remaining work capacity. So it doesn't absolutely affect disability, either species, or degree, is it a protected workplace? But we have to explain it in the law. There's no absolute protection. There's no glass bell under which we'll put the worker. And the worker, i.e., a pardon employer, does not hire and priorities persons with disabilities, he employs workers. Therefore, in order for a person with disabilities to obtain the status of a worker, permanently employed or employed at a specified time, it must meet certain conditions, whether the conditions regarding professional training, all health skills, etc. And of course, that's when a person with disabilities gets hired. We can't hire a person with disabilities if we have a job that further disrupts his health. So, I'd also like the profession, the profession that deals with professional rehabilitation, to say more about this law, it's good that this law in provoking reading, so it's the best thing, because we have time to still conflict, discuss and from it through conflict of opinion, through... to create and agree on something good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As it is, offering solutions that will certainly be good, and with so many questionnaires, I don't think we're going to get the necessary consent we should have in this field. In this field, it should indeed be the agreement of all actors on the political scene. Because people with disabilities deserve it. I've given up my pain, and I'll always give up. In 2004, Tekop Nova's protection workshop opened in Pula, and it was difficult and there was 51% word and even to call in protected jobs even though that was not what it was called in 2004. It was difficult to create a climate in local self-government that they participate in funding and not only in funding in subsidies to a protective facility, but rather in providing them with jobs to make them feel strong, good and efficient so to those who make goods that go through the market not at dumped prices, not because they are persons with disabilities net of quality and good goods. And it took a long time for utility companies to start ordering protective suits, various other supplies in that facility. But thank God he lives there today and 25 people earn their bread. It's not great, it's not great, but it's better than at shopping malls and it's pretty air-conditioned and last year they were opened by the ministry's efforts to isolate the ministry and the local community of new spaces. I think it's a good example of concern for people with disabilities and we've also opened a centre in Pula, so all the preconditions for the centre's functioning have been created. I think one such non-administrative legal approach should be more humane and see how to create the necessary social climates towards them. There are good things here and there are good things in the law, I do not dispute that there is a good intention, but at this point we must as a club of GLAS and HSU be quite reserved according to this law, see where it will move on. And what I'm saying is, I think it's completely unnecessary for us to put nine members into the board of directors, I think it's unnecessary. I don't think there must be two members on the proposal of the Minister of Competent and the work of two members on the proposal of the Minister for Social Policy, can be one or why must there be three representatives in front of the Economic and Social Council? Isn't it enough to be a union representative and an employer? Why do we have to keep increasing these administrative bodies like 11 people making better decisions for us by five or seven people? The important thing is that they're professional and they're benevolent, and it doesn't matter what their number is. It can happen that two ministry representatives don't think the same way, so they're gonna get away with it. So for the best of all, I suggest you, you can do it a little bit, I don't think there was such a practice that there used to be two representatives from one ministry in the administrative bodies of institutions and funds. So, finally once again, I am sorry that this system of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people that there is not enough sensitivity for him in Croatian society, that a lot of money has been collected that did not end up where it should be. It's okay to return it to employers, but only to projects, job adaptations, to projects hiring people with disabilities, it's okay, but they have to draw really have to make projects that deserve funding because we now take everyone who doesn't pay, and now we give to those who are willing to adapt jobs and adapt them to the needs of people with disabilities. I'm sorry that in 2004, so for 13 years we haven't made a bigger step, because this indicator that we have 369 million kunas, and everyone's crying that they don't have the money to create a job, and as a member of the Immunological Institute's Immunology Committee, I know that there's a million dollars worth of equipment out there in Bezje. You know what? For the production of water for injections. So we don't produce water for injections in Croatia, and neither do ampoules. The equipment has been there since 2013. We could have had five employees, maybe there could have been one or two people with disabilities. So we need to question whether these are our final options, I think as a society we can and must give more to people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51151	Thank you very much, Mr. Sylvana Hrelja. We have four replicas on his exhibit. The first replica is from representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51152	Thank you very much. A colleague of Hrelja you know that in 2014, 2015 we founded four Institutes for Professional Rehabilitation Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. I am sorry that this has not developed enough but, obviously, that the spirit of Minister Šikić and through this law is being implemented somewhere because here in this law we see nothing that will help people with disabilities but will probably not help employers, I see no reason other than this abolishing of the JOPPD forms so that people don't have to pay for it and that they can still cheat on the state because 3100 don't pay and we simply haven't managed to get them with a JOPPD form, and now that we do, they'll probably not pay more. However, what defines me most and what you have pointed out is that we will now skip art, so I say that it is some kind of spirit of Minister Šikic in this law we will skip art and we will send people directly to professional rehabilitation without even knowing who we will rehabilitate for, how many of them we have, so someone who has residual work skills, which we will rehabilitate instead of continuing the path that Austria has, so with Austria, so with these professional rehabilitation centres are also related schools, so companies are tied up, so the employers are bound and through them are trained as an employer for certain well-known jobs. Obviously, by this law, we're jumping one step and we don't even know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51153	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51154	Let me read it wrong, but I don't believe it. I think it's the intensity of this law to speed up the process, at least that's what it says and go straight to the art. But I've set up each other's enquiries, artificially compared to what? Compared to what? Compared to what presupposed workplace? Because it was easy to determine the disability of the general type or general disability, it is relatively simple to do so, however, when we are skilled in professional rehabilitation and employment, we need to be skilled in relation to something specific where we intend that person whether it is an unemployed person with a disability who should be in the eye of the Employment Service, whether we are looking for the person who died in the work that was sent to us by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. So it may happen that they send already with the idea but we need to know that the art is going against the assumed, or the offered workplace, otherwise the processes will be blocked, we're going to artificially versus what? We can't say we're now reporting 500 people and we have 20 jobs or 20 possible solutions. I'm just asking a questionr and I think I've got it right that he wants to speed up the process, at least that's what the law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51155	Thank you. Next replica representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51156	I'll look around, I'd have a lot to say, but since I don't have time just to go back to this system of art you've set up and the obstruction you mentioned. I'm glad, I'm so glad you brought this up because when the law was passed we spoke, my colleague Mrsic said earlier we increased our salaries to the witches, we talked and warned that it wouldn't be enough that the witches didn't want to work for their salary and that we would, for the salary at the office, and that we would have a problem. That's what happened. They moved to work for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and more than 50,000 items from other systems, social care, the education system was waiting for them, and unfortunately some people died while they were waiting for the art of exercising the rights of np. On a personal disability. As for the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, they're conducting a professional rehabilitation, they're not witches. A warlock is a unique body of art, it's two, it's not the same. The Centres for Professional Rehabilitation, unfortunately by law when it was passed, were not well established as well as the institution and there were foundations of any kind, it is not true that Mrsic said that it had started from the beginning, there was a fund for professional rehabilitation that had already had some good intentions and suggestions on how to move forward. It could've been done a lot more, it didn't work out, so here I believe that by at least these changes until we've passed some whole new law, we're going to fix what we can fix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51157	Thank you, MPs, Ljubi Lukačić. The reply to the replica by Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51158	Ma esteemed colleague Lukačić, you know as well as I do that the only witches who were in a permanent working relationship and who could have prevented the center of art were HZMO witches, all the other institutions had contractual relations with the witches. Therefore, they did not skill for defenders, nor for the social, nor for health insurance. Therefore, they were the only ones who could pass. Of course he was a rebel and their boss was Ms. Sikic's later minister and that's a fact, we can't get away from it. That's all I'm talking about. And as for, of course, art is conducted by a unique body of art, but for what? For what? According to what? If I tell you again, if it's about determining general disability, yes, no problem but if it's about continuing professional rehabilitation, employment, job adaptation, etc., then we need to know the goal we're going towards, we need to know the offer we have. So, of course, you're right here, nobody's doing any outside of them this art, but I've just asked why, according to what, we have to have a orientation, we have to compare the health status of a person, the remaining work capacity to the demands of a job. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51159	Thank you. Next is the replica of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51160	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, here I have received a message from the people who are following this debate and then say that we are not at all discussing and touching the main problem of people with disabilities, which is that practically when they get hired to lose the right to a personal disability. Here's the mention of this woman, she sends me a message, mentions Miranda Mrsic where she says there are still unused funds to co-finance the employment of people with disabilities, and as a key reason why these funds remain unused, she gives that reason to abolish this personal disability and that they themselves are practically forcing such persons to remain in working incompetent because if they lose that right once, then it's a big problem. So here, maybe it's one thought that should be taken into account and see if people should go in that direction, even though they are employed, to keep that personal disability, because they also have their disability practically.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51161	Thank you, Agent Never Grmoya. The reply to the replica by Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51162	I would prefer if you had referred this replica to Mrsic, then I think we should find a measure and not offer each other but eventually find a measure between the two rights of persons with disabilities. If I can justify myself in some way, I know that we left when the person with disabilities got a job, left to receive part of the pension if they had previously had conditions for retirement, I once made that part of myself a long time ago, but I say, I am not amnesting anyone or blaming anyone. I'm sure that when new processes are introduced that there will be mistakes, but that's why we're here to change things, and I think that in this area, the main need is for continuity and upgrade policies, and not for me to be nicer and smarter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51163	Thank you. And the last replica of a representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51164	Mr. Hrelja, you have also touched the governing bodies of certain institutions in your debate, and I disagree with you here. Whether the minister proposes two, one or three, or one minister suggests two and two, it is irrelevant if the problem is resolved. Our problem is what things are solved. Of the 250,000 people, only 7000 registered on the stock market as people with disabilities. That's saying something, so there's a problem here, that's where we need to work things out, and that's where we need to focus the most. And the money collected as compensation for those who do not meet their obligation may need to be higher for those who do not because people are now calculating that they may even be paid something to be below the quota that the law requires them to do, so that institutional resolution and the number of these are not important. It's important that people understand what the problem is, it's important to sew awareness in our country about these problems and that people with disabilities can do the same quality of certain jobs as those with no disability to focus on protection jobs, that's the thing, I would like to see a little more social debate and the ministry initiate that some of the Stigmes develop that clearly still exist in Croatia, unfortunately today, we are going back to big steps and that our people don't understand at all what the government wants to suggest about the family and that these much more complex things that are even less if they don't have experience known, as only then I would say, to clarify. So that's one complex social issue that we can't just solve and if it's two or one, that's absolutely irrelevant to me right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51165	Thank you. Replica response, Agent Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51166	I can see that we agree in 805 of what you said, the only thing that is this detail, but I don't care about that detail, because the size of the administrative bodies of the institution is also a burden and financially, and even if they don't have a fee, they have some other cost, if nothing else from the system of their home jobs in some ministry, and therefore, I'm the advocate of having to rationalize both financially and financially because the waste of human potentials on some things, where a decision can make one, put all of it, I think it's unnecessary, simply unnecessary, and we can go through with 7 members of the administrative council, we don't have to have nine, but I'll still ask you one thing question. I'm okay with the board being the one making the payments, in this case it's the employers. For the second time in another, there are workers in another board of directors when they go or contribute or pay out of wages, here they go to the expense, previously there is a salary contribution, and now there is a payment due to the failure of the quota and the pay of the employer. So, of course, they need to be inside, and they need to be aware that they can adapt jobs and spend some of that money because they require the realization of the employment of people with disabilities. I don't think unions or ministries will hire them that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51167	Thank you. This ended with the replicas, as well as the presentations on behalf of the club of representatives, since colleagues Hrg and colleagues Maras agreed to replace but not identity but only to replace the order of speech, so now individually, representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51168	Thank you very much. Here, I am opening this debate with what I have essentially started in the replica and what I think is the taste of the problem today of hiring people with disabilities in Croatia, which is social awareness, the impact of those who are responsible and so are we in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, most of those who run the state, and I mean the government, of course, which is the operational executive authority, and we need to be aware that everything, every intention, every gesture, every message that we say here, or which our government, for example, suggests, or we representatives here in the Parliament, we discuss, reflects on our society. Dana, of course we are all relieved by the announcement of the new family law and the idea of Minister Murganić that the family, as defined in the opening article of the law, is the only family that makes, mother, father and children, mother with child or father with child who do not live together. So citizens are devastated by messages like this. What does that mean, if the family doesn't have children, they're not family. How many grandparents, no parents? They guard them, they raise them, they help them get on their feet, they're not family, and we need to be aware, it's not a meaningless thing. I'd like someone to get out of HDZ right now and say no, that's not my attitude. I don't think so, it'll change. It's okay. And those messages are them, it's the theme, Mrs. Love, it's really the subject, because that's what it all comes from. Of the kind of things and social values that we represent here, which the government represents all arises, including this topic. And then it may be clear to you, which is why, of the 250,000 people on the Croatian market who are not working, who are working, have reported that they have certain protection, only 3% of them report being disabled. Which is why people with disabilities say, when you talk to them, that it's awfully hard to find a job, that employers sometimes reluctantly hire people with disabilities. All of this comes from those values that we represent here. All those problems. And that's not something we should be sharing, it's fundamental human values, European values, which we should be representing here. And until that changes, something's gonna be hard to change. This is why such guffs, Mrs. Murganic, today, the proposal of this law in the initial yet stage, but it should never stand on paper at all. So you just can't give it away. I, too, ask all HDZ representatives to fence from it, as it has been fenced throughout today, the entire Croatian public. All those well-intentioned free-thinking people who realize what family is and what family is not. Now, when we get to this topic, I'm grateful to the ministry for sending me the data and getting a little bit of a head start on the issues, to see how much the companies are doing, which don't meet their obligations, given the legal assumptions. They are about 9200 in Croatia, the first year of 2015. 8500, 2nd year 2016 8720. What concerns, for example, is that in the past year, when it was possible to analyze the whole year, even 4060 does not settle this fee and does not meet the requirements of the law. It means 50%. Those who meet the requirements, companies, bonds, which meet the quota by hiring people with disabilities, by law, are out of these 8720, only 1048 last year, which means 12%. Let's ask ourselves why it is. But even those others who might have to, I'd say, make up for this fee that's scheduled if you don't meet that quota, 4000 of them don't pay anything. I'm asking myself a question, where's the state, who controls it. Which is why no one controls these people and makes them have the obligation they have, so that they have more resources to encourage these on the other hand that have protected jobs, protection jobs. That way we won't get anywhere. This is my open question here, what will the ministry do, with these 50% that neither fulfils the quota nor pays the fee. That's 50%. And then when you see the data, there's something even more vague, so in 2015 it's 152 million kuna, 2016. 188 and half don't pay. And in the end, you see that you can actually have twice as much money. So there wouldn't be 369 million dollars in the fund now. There'd be over 700 million kunas. They could be even stronger to encourage the employment of people with disabilities. I'm immediately asking the ministry, and I'm going to initiate as chairman of the board, a special thematic debate, to see who they are, which is why they're not being controlled, and that's why there's no legal obligation for those companies or institutions to have. What is also worrying is that in the public sector, the state, those who should be an example in law enforcement, bonds, public sector, 2617 taxpayers, 427 meet. 427 is at a speed estimate of 13 to 14%. And what are we talking about? We've passed laws, ministries. Is the pension system at the Ministry of Labour a quota satisfied? Here, give us the answer right now, do you, as promoters, respect the quota you have set and which you give to everyone else in Croatia. You've got to get out of here. And one more thing I want to say very clearly here. One of the major problems in this area is, the area of the problem of people with mental disorders, who are very difficult to establish in general the percentage of disability, which are waiting in the unique body of art, at 9, 10 months to assess their percentage of disability, I'm saying it firsthand, I've talked to people who are dealing with it, so someone who has disabilities takes him 10 months to determine who has a percentage at all. And on the other hand, when a person with mental disorders comes into a unique body of art, it's being examined and evaluated by a pediatrician, for example, so someone doesn't even deal with or treat a person with mental disorders at all. So how is that possible? In which way these persons can then adequately assess what is the degree, the percentage of disability, which is the assessment of functionality, etc. Every day these people have problems, otherwise the hardest thing to do is to hire a person who has an estimated disability, who is a person with mental disorders because people have unfortunately, unfortunately quite often the biggest problem of hiring such a person. And we have to do this thing to help these people and we have to do concrete things. So the ministry has to practically force and force what it has to do, if the fees are too low or too high, and we need to measure every year to see how successful we are. And most importantly, I will return to the beginning, which values as the highest institution in this country are being sent from here, which values and messages are being sent by the Croatian Government. And so once again, I am extremely unhappy that the messages from the Family Law that came out of the government today come out in the light of the day, and I hope that the prime minister and all the people who will think about it will not be too much to analyze, bring certain conclusions and fence from it and very quickly correct that error and send a clear message that this is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51169	Thank you, Agent Gordan Maras. We have three replicas on his display. The first is a replica from MP Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51170	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So when you ask me what my family is, Mr. Maras, it's my wife, my five children in a narrow sense, and I'm spreading with my grandparents, aunts and uncles. In Croatian traditional values, the family has always been the backbone of the identity of spiritual restoration and historical survival and even the development of modern Croatian society. What you are now talking about, although the subject is the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, you have referred to Minister Murganic's statement, and it is related to the Family Law that you know that during your government he suspends the Constitutional Court's decision, and he has made so many difficulties in family legal life primarily for children that he, as such, had to be made. The government had to show itself to the Constitutional Court and tell if it was going to change and supplement this law or go with the new law, which it did. Of course, one working group was formed professionally, scientificly, from different associations, different implementations to bring as much as possible a better Family Law. The family is defined as a legal concept relating to this law by determining who is considered a family member for the purpose of applying this Family Law. and family members are mothers, fathers and their children, think of the biological family and are adopted together and have been considered family members because of the effects of adoption of these adoptions, a parent who does not live with the child and other relatives by the blood of grandmothers, grandparents, aunts, uncles or in the case. A stepdaughter, a stepmom, a stepdad if they live together. The waist, so I'm saying that this has been passed for international legal and constitutional protection what you're talking about, and the profession says that the first form of family is... made by father, mother and children [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51171	Thank you. Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51172	Thank you very much. Mr. Babic, we each have our own story and family, but your family with five children, my family with two children is in the same rank as the parents' family who don't have children, that's family. The family is where they love you, who you live with, who you share fate with every day, build life, help each other, etc. There are many things that define family and cannot be defined by family in a way that the family is, for example, grandparents, children who do not have parents. How many are there? So the law must not allow itself in this way to open up a story in a way that ignores a lot of people who are not, for example, in a position to have children and does not restrict them in this way legally. That's all I'm talking about. So family is what I think is the most valuable thing we have in life, but also people without children must not be excluded from the law. You understand that the failure happened, the failure happened, you have to fence yourself from it, say it's not true, it's a mistake, it's just that I'm talking about. That's all I'm talking about. So I'm not talking about past family laws or futures, etc. or, for example, family is, and when people live in the same sex community, it's the same family, they don't have children of the same family. So don't make people of first and second order and don't touch my family. I know what my family is, you're not going to write to me now, not specifically about you, but about the country what family is. Each of us knows what's his and who's his family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51173	Thank you, Agent Maras. I say this is Parliament, but I ask everyone in principle to try as much and as much as possible to stick to the subject. We are discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. But the debate is wide. The next replica to the presentation of representatives of Gordan Maras is a replica from MP Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51174	Thank you very much. First of all it's not fair, it's not fair today when we talk about hiring people with disabilities you're turning the subject at the beginning and at the end of your debate, it's not fair, but let's be honest, it's good. As far as this number of employers is concerned, I agree with you, there should certainly be as many employers as possible who, if they haven't paid a fee to process them. And the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is doing exactly that. Those who have not paid against them will be subject to administrative procedure. It would be good, it wouldn't be bad at all what you said to organise a thematic session so we could talk more about hiring people with disabilities. However, you mentioned both the ministries and the Croatian Parliament, so public bodies that are required to employ. I don't know if you've heard of it, but I'm also in my debate and I've already told someone in the replica, so the very problem of reasonable adjustment is one of the problems that they haven't been hired by this law, and this is what we want to resolve to impose a reasonable adjustment obligation. So someone needs a little bit, I'll tell you for example, I see time running out, but here's just one example. When you and I enter the building of this High House, we stop and the door opens, then you and I enter on equal terms, and when the doors aren't like that, then you will easily open them and I will find it difficult. That's the kind of door, that's a reasonable adjustment. And many other examples of testing and all about hiring people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51175	Thank you very much for the replica. The answer to the replica, Representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lukacic, I don't think it's fair, I think this is a place where we have to open up themes to make our society better, that it's very connected to each other. I'm very familiar with the subject here, I've been talking about some problems. And trust me, I'm going to make sure that things like this don't happen in the next few years. So half or half of those who have an obligation to neither hire nor pay, so I now take it as my obligation to warn each day or every time I do, and that next year we don't have such examples. Just as I understand my obligation to expand in society values that I think are European, that they are modern, that they will help our society to be better and that it is all connected to each other. As for this particular topic, you know that, and I think we will all agree in the Croatian Parliament, that we will all try everything together to make the situation better. But let's try to create a more tolerant society, try to create a society of modern values that will allow our people to live freely without restrictions and without feeling less valuable. Unfortunately, the messages of Minister Murganic today make one part of people feel less valuable in the Republic of Croatia and that is what must be said here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51177	Thank you. And the last replica of the presentation of representatives of Gordan Maras is the replica of representative Mark Sladoliev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Maras, you have touched important topics in your debate, but there is one unsettled topic left, and this is a question of property and income censorship in people with disabilities, not only for people with disabilities but for extras for other people's care and help. So you have a situation where I don't know the man who lives in Ogulin has a disabled child, has some space that rents, these are very low prices, and he loses his right to other people's care and help. You have cases like this all over Croatia. What do you think of this subject? So I referred Minister Murganic a few days ago to the question of how many such persons are so that we can count on what that amount is in the state budget that could move on to such things, I think it's a question that we should also open in our debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51179	Here we welcome students and high school students from Split before responding to the replica. So now the answer to the line, please, sir, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51180	Not just students and students, but professors and teachers, so I wouldn't forget them, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, Mr. Sladolev, the property censorship is for me and the income censorship is something that should be applied to me as a rule in most of the things that we regulate by law, laws because it's not the same to people in Ogulin where I lived for two years, or it's been two years, I haven't slept there in two years, but I went to work every day and I know how hard it is to live there. We have now seen, unfortunately, these floods and they are not the same in Zagreb. On this side, our ministry should take account, and I hope that the proposals that are related to both income and property censorship will finally begin to arrive because there is too much injustice in Croatia which unfortunately has not been corrected for too long. And I once again use the opportunity here to get the State Secretary to answer one simple question, and that is whether the ministry proposed by this law respects the provision within this law. It would be good if the answer were yes, I'd like to be honest with you because we have to get out of here. So it would be good if the answer were to see that according to this law, a ministry that is competently law-abiding and I don't know how many people work there, probably a few hundred that has a quota prescribed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51181	I'd like to thank Agent Gordan Maras. We continue with individual debates. The next debate is from MP Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let's get back to this law. I think people with disabilities, to get away from the topic when they're being debated because it's very rare to argue, and then it's very good to stick to the subject absolutely. In preparation for this debate, I have actually consulted with the president of one of the better and more active associations of persons with disabilities in Croatia, with Mr. Gataric, president of the Association of Persons with Disabilities in Križevci, probably already a colleague of Lukačić talked about it, but it is worth repeating. I asked him how he felt about the law, how the association felt about the law and how it should be set up under this law. To get a little closer, it's about a association that employs about 46 people, which in the company it has established, which, through various programs, seems to me, 16 people with disabilities, other people work in principle or directly in helping people with disabilities or working alongside people with disabilities. So it's about an association that can say a lot and that can give us a lot of good examples when we talk about hiring and rehabilitating people with disabilities. What is important for the emphasis and what I want to make here is, in fact, on behalf of this association, says Gataric, there is no objection to the proposed amendments to the law, except by adding one small proposal in Article 19(3), where it is said about the means for integrated workshops to be provided by founders. The proposal may include local self-government where such workshops are established. Why am I saying that? Because in principle, local self-government has a very strong interest in taking care of people with disabilities and helping them. Let's face it, it's very hard to hire people with no disability, let alone people with disabilities. It's our reality, it's reality, and we need to be aware of that. And this part of the integration workshop provides one new possibility to further strengthen the employment of disabled people, to involve the whole community in the establishment of such workshops, to involve persons with disabilities and to mean, the law will enable it, to help them absolutely and maximum their employment and to actually set a good example for entrepreneurs that people with disabilities can do their job and the law is already regulated that they will also have certain benefits if they employ people with disabilities. Employment of persons with disabilities must actually be freed from all giving to the state. Short and clear. That's my personal attitude. Because I think it's much better, more valuable to get rid of giving than to help people with disabilities from budget funds, it's twice as good. Because people with disabilities in such a situation naturally become more important to themselves, more satisfied, and on the other hand they are not at the expense of society. And that's why I think there should be absolutely help involved, not only for the state but for the local self-government. They say there's been a lot of talk here about professional rehabilitation and employment, there's been a lot of talk about art. There was criticism on the proposal of this law and therefore, what I got from that association, is one of the things to note that it is a really big problem waiting for people with disabilities to get that opinion. Now it's said that in practice it's been waiting 3 months, recently it's been 5 months, this law, as far as I understand it, it's going to be a significantly shortened process. And the Association of Persons with Disabilities welcomes this reduction and should not think otherwise, let us now let some complicated things that we put on ourselves to make life impossible for people. The laws must be simple, they must be adapted to those for which they are intended and must be enforceable. In any case, I welcome in particular, so this concept and the establishment of integrated workshops, we are ready for such a programme, we may be able to be first in the Croatian state, make a good pilot project in the bang and serve as an example, therefore, and others who will go a similar way. Why did I say that local self-government should be involved in that part of the founder's role? It doesn't have to be a financial character, it can be a security of space, insurance of conditions, release of certain duties, that's the role a local self-government can play. You have a situation where the law makes you have to charge the company created by an association of people with disabilities such as the example of the Hedon Cruise Chocolatery, where the city has to use its entrepreneurship centre to actually calculate the cost of renting space to one company because the law makes him do so. If by law we decide that local self-government can be in such a founding work with that share, then we've done a double job, we've made it possible for local self-government not to do so, and we've made it possible for the company, the company, the integration workshop or any other company to provide one big help. For these reasons and everything else that is written in this law, colleague Dodig has already declared himself on behalf of our club, that we absolutely support the law and that we think that he is good we just have to implement him in practice and we have to implement him in practice because often times the laws that are passed and being good, but then they don't go further, so there's a problem and then we move on to another action when some law isn't implemented, then we go to law changes instead of implementing him. Here's me, anyway, supporting this bill and we're happy with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51183	Thank you, counsel. We have two replicas on his display. The first replica is from Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Zeljko Rainer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51184	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Hrg. Of course, I agree with the good part of what you said and I don't think there's anyone who won't support this law. However, I would refer to this regardless of the fact that my colleague Lukacic said that we rarely have a chance here to discuss the problems of professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities and in general people with disabilities. As the topic has spread significantly, I think some things have to be said after all. Say it because it was said here earlier, no one will tell me what the family is. Oh, he will. Of course he will, and the law will determine, the law we bring. Because if under the flossules, that people feel free, etc. We don't define things. So how's society gonna work? How the state works, if we don't at least determine the terms of what's what. So we can't act like it's none of our business or under the firm, again say some kind of strong liberal attitude, not define certain things, as defined by the Family Act. The provision under discussion does not at all restrict the circle of persons who enjoy the right to respect family life, in the context of neither international legal nor constitutional legal protection. So I don't see why it's a problem. Especially when it comes to another subject, a very important topic, a subject of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51185	Thank you. The answer to the replica of MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51186	Thank you very much, actually I'll just comment very briefly. Of course, the family is the foundation of society and the fact is that we in Croatian politics, especially those who see it a little more liberally, are doing everything we can to break the foundations of society. Then we'll wonder later why some things happen to us. It's a fact state, it's continuous, because today everything that's normal is showing that it's not normal anymore, everything that's not normal, it's showing that it's normal. Somehow, a man who lives in harmony with some of the standards of behavior that we've been raised for often feels stupid to himself. So that everything should be discussed, but absolutely what you have said, these topics should not be discussed when discussing an extremely sensitive population of Croatian society, persons with disabilities. They do not deserve any other topic to be imposed by taking advantage of the media space of the constituency, in order to talk about something else. When it comes to order, we will discuss and discuss it and express our views.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51187	The last replica is the replica of Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well colleague Hrg, I almost fully agree with your presentation, but I want to say that we already have in the law that... the workshop can be established individually or jointly by local regional self-government units, together with the association. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here, I think for... No problem at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said in my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, and this is my special pleasure, that Križevacka Hedona will be the first integral workshop in the Republic of Croatia, they announced and I believe it will do so. And that's proof that people with disabilities in a small environment, where it was much harder to hire people with disabilities, are still employed. And what's just before, and about that, my colleague Grmoya mentioned that it should be resolved, that people with disabilities, who are employed, and who have a personal disability, and many of them were in Hedona, who lived on a personal disability, I mean, that it was realized that it might be necessary to fix it in a certain way, because many people with disabilities, including their families, were unfortunately using this right and out of fear that they couldn't keep their jobs they didn't want to hire. However, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act is currently in the consultation phase, and it provides for people with disabilities, when employed, to remain a personal disability and not to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51189	Thank you very much. Replica response, Agent Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51190	Thank you very much. Comrade Lukačić, here we often meet at these activities and events and that we really think, practically the same thing. I'm very glad that you've just confirmed what you've already said about Cruise Hedon, because I'm kind of looking at these people from the Association of Persons with Disabilities. The people who have volunteers, who have established an association, who have joined that association, have often made it so often, come with such good entrepreneurial ideas, with so much energy, with the ferocity that we can be us who may not have someone damaged and we are not officially disabled, we can in some way be a little envious to them and it just comes but when they come up with an idea, when they get some little incentive on the side, it's amazing how much energy is released in realising it, they never give up. And that's why it's very important that you said yourself that it can already be now, so I've mentioned to me what's mentioned in this part of Article 19(3), if it's already standing, absolutely, it might be good to just be highlighted in this kind of founding part that local self-government is not excluded, that it's easier for associations or some other activities so that these people get an even bigger extra incentive and that they can do even more. And here's what we're going to do is we're going to do what we promised our association that we're going to do everything in our power, and I believe that the ministry is going to be there, and it's going to be a very important factor in making this integral workshop as soon as possible, the spaces are already being prepared, and they're being arranged, and it's going to be there soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51191	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate is from Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51192	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So during today's debate, it was suggested that all clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament support this law, of course, with certain adjustments that are and if possible by the competent ministry and here present state secretaries that I welcome with my associates, especially from Ms. Benci's Office of Arts. It's a good thing they're here together. Namely, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation adopted in 2013 experienced its changes and changes, so it was evident that some things were not working, so 2013, 2014, 2015. The fact is also that precisely because of these things is HZZ, and because of these indiscretions that were related to the law, a statement has been made that is very indicative of me. Therefore, only the experience of HZZ in the application of this Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities points to this complexity and one long-term in the process of including in the procedures of professional rehabilitation of unemployed persons from the very records of institutions. The Institute further states that according to the current experience of applying the biggest difficulty in conducting the professional rehabilitation process in the fact that in 2016 no disabled persons from the register of the regional office in Zagreb, nor the other regional office was included in the virtual workshop and work centre as the most common programs of professional rehabilitation. And that's what we should talk about today. And Mr. Hrg said it very well. He made some of his observations, and he suggests that employers themselves should be added to any contribution when it comes to hiring people with disabilities. And in addition to this, I can say that from the data provided by the Ministry of Demography, today the family, youth and social policy is the number of 507,000 people with disabilities, so it is a large number of people with disabilities who are the state, the competent ministry should try to introduce themselves into the labour market and because of this social exclusion of the disabled. Under the applicable law, the right to professional rehabilitation is acquired by persons with disabilities who have been identified by the competent authority as having ceased their ability to work. Analoglytically, this person undergoes the very skillful process, and only by the decision of the experts is the rehabilitation of the assessment at the centre for professional rehabilitation. Why does this matter? Because it slows down the inclusion of persons with disabilities on the labour market, but it also burdens the body of art needlessly, since we know how many items they currently have. The Centre for Rehabilitation and HZZ shall receive relevant information necessary for the purpose of preparing a person with disabilities for employment. The task of the centre is to train persons with disabilities to work systematically and in line with labour market needs, but also to provide assistance, professional assistance, advisory to all employers when they are employed. Now I am going to say something about this current law, which means that people with disabilities can be employed in the open labour market or under special conditions under the obligation of the employer to ensure a reasonable adjustment of the job we have been listening to here today, which is a reasonable adjustment of the workplace, to introduce quota employment rates under the obligation of the employer both in the public and in the private sector. It is prescribed that the funds are paid from the basis of the cash compensation used for the purpose of payment and incentives and projects themselves, and the applicable law itself, the conditions for obtaining the status of the protection workshop on which the secretary of state is concerned, both in its replica and in its opening statement, are very well stated where at least 51% of people with disabilities are employed in relation to the total number of employees, and exclusively in the workplaces. Now, due to the amendment of the amendments to this law, some improvements are proposed, so the improvements I have seen both in the public debate and in the public consultation have mostly been made to associations of persons with disabilities and the Ombudsman of persons with disabilities. There were certain questions that were logical and I see that you and my replica answered me because it is deeply concerned by the Association of Persons with Disabilities. And my colleague Mrsic was saying today that disabled associations should be preceded by this, in fact, being an example of quota employment, but he also seemed to have said that assistants who serve as help to disabled people should be excluded from it and we said that sublegal acts would actually get rid of what I think is very good and in this public consultation itself are visible that, that it was the most interested associations of persons with disabilities. So this proposed law, not to repeat myself because of my colleague Lukacic speaking on behalf of the club, is speeding up and facilitating the inclusion of unemployed persons with disabilities in the professional rehabilitation process in such a way that they are directly directed to the centres for professional rehabilitation and that they are given direct guidance and based on the results of rehabilitation... Advisers, for example, to HZZ, to actually get all the information related to the preparation of disabled persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The circle of orderrs is expanding, which is also good, a service of professional rehabilitation, to simplify and speed up the procedure for the exercise of founding rights and responsibilities. And this is also good and Mr. Hrg was saying that you could include local self-government units that I have absolutely no objections to that part, but in this case now because of the flexibility and efficiency of business instead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia being the Ministry of Labour and Pension Systems. The notion of reasonable adjustment is specified which is definitely good, and there has been a lot of discussion today and some provisions with the employment quota for people with disabilities are specified, and it is good that for new employers there is one reasonable adjustment of 24 months which I think is very good. The abolition of the JOPPD pattern obligations was today in the debate that it was not good and that part should not be abolished but I think it is good and if the ministry has made a certain analysis not to administer additionally I think it is not as bad as some other things related to compliance with the Labour Protection Act, which is very important again because it is in, not to be in collegiate with the Professional Rehabilitation Act. Of course, according to people with disabilities, and I said that this number is almost half a million of my personal opinion is that this number is far less and that we are going to deal with this government with the restricted ministries as well as with people with disabilities dealing with this number. Isolated decent funding from the state budget, maybe not by those most needed but by those who have, for example, taken advantage of, say, certain holes in the law that are not good. If that number were revised, what was said in the public space could also increase the assistance for other people's care, other people's assistance and him, personal disabilityes, perhaps there could also be talk about the Law on Inclusive Adjectives. So you're thinking about helping people really get the ones that need it. From my conversation with persons with disabilities they are for it and they are willing to take action to do, let's say that's the revision of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51193	Thank you very much for representing Ante Babic for the debate. At his hearing, we have no replicas, so I now ask Secretary of State Majda Buric for the final word on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51194	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a short, first of all, I want to thank everyone for the precise and constructive and thorough discussion. What's very good is that we continue all of this through another reading, so first of all, I want to say that we keep in mind everything that's said, in the second reading, we move on. What we want and on what these amendments and amendments to the law are based on is exactly the attitude and opinion of the profession, of course consulting, as I said in the opening speech with associations dealing with persons with disabilities, namely Mrs. Attorney General etc.. So I also believe in constructive debate and in second reading. What I think is particularly important here is the few definitions that I have presented in the opening presentation, but it is not a waste to repeat them since you asked for it yourself. It is a term, i.e. a syntagma of reasonable adaptation, and it is once again worth mentioning that it is a reasonable adjustment, that we further specify it in this law and further define it in the light of the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities. And the simplest thing is to explain it in a way that it is, when we talk about a reasonable adjustment really is the same conditions, both for persons with disabilities and for everyone else, and that's what Mrs. Lukacic said a little while ago very vividly. I believe that a reasonable adjustment will greatly facilitate the procedure and employment and everything else. The workplace, therefore, is the workplace that involves the simplest operations. In addition, I believe that it is necessary to once again highlight and underline and that quota employment is what applies to three categories, it is employment related to 3% of employees, employment of people with disabilities in the size of 3% of employees. The second category is the payment of a fee of 30% of the lowest prescribed salary. And the third category is the replacement way I talked about it. And all of this together can also be balanced, i.e. to mix all of these three categories, and all of this is considered to be the fulfillment of the quota. Therefore, all three categories, if they are accepted and executed, are considered to be a quota fulfillment. Not to be too long, I really think that we've turned very, very hard, or exhausted these amendments and the addition of the law, in any case I repeat again, we're taking note of all your comments and I'll see you when I read these amendments and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51195	Thank you very much to the secretary of state, Mrs. Majdi Buric. There are no replicas on its exhibit, and I am also concluding a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, First Reading, P.Z. No. 170. We will vote when the terms are obtained and I will set a break by 15 hours when we continue with the Final Proposal of the Law on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the area of posting of workers, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 130. Thank you. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51196	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 170. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 94 votes in favour of, 8 abstentions, 7 votes against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Honorable MPs, MPs good morning. I see there's a lot of you calling for a break. I will only announce that the first item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 170.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51199	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic and a warm welcome to all MPs and MPs. Here is a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The application of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Act of Persons with Disabilities entered into force on 1.1.2014, with its full application starting on 1.1.2015, when the quota of compulsory employment of persons with disabilities was introduced. The application of the law stressed the need for certain changes and supplements, with the aim of further improved professional rehabilitation, as well as employment of disabled persons. The proposed amendments and additions to the law relate to the following. One of the basic areas, which is governed by the law, is the area of professional rehabilitation, which includes different measures and activities, which are taken for the purpose of training and employment of persons with disabilities. The applicable law stipulates the right to make professional rehabilitation a person with disabilities, for which the competent authority of the artisan body has established the remaining working capacity. It follows from that legal provision that people with disabilities first have to pass the skill process, and only afterwards do they refer to rehabilitation and rehabilitation assessment at the centres for professional rehabilitation. This significantly slows down and makes it difficult to involve people with disabilities on the labour market, and also needlessly burdens the body with skills. In addition, in practice, an expert may not direct a person with disabilities to a rehabilitation assessment, and the findings and opinions of the body of art do not contain all the necessary data on the working opportunities of a disabled person. That is why amendments and additions to this law are proposed, to speed up and facilitate the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the professional rehabilitation process, in a way that they are directly directed to the rehabilitation centres. In this context, it is proposed that the right to professional rehabilitation can be achieved by a person with disabilities who meets the requirements for enrolment in an eyewitness of persons with disabilities. Based on the results of the rehabilitation evaluation or findings and opinions of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, Croatian Employment Service advisers will receive all information they need to prepare persons with disabilities for employment. In the report and opinion of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, details of the difficulties in the working functioning of persons with disabilities, how difficulties can be reduced and what are preserved working skills and abilities of persons with disabilities, and a proposal for the implementation of further professional rehabilitation services if necessary. Furthermore, the applicable law provides that the professional rehabilitation procedure is to be initiated and financed by a service provider that can be HZMO, HZZ, HZZO, social care centre, insurance company of local (regional) and regional self-government and employer and private client. Since, in addition to the above-mentioned service providers, professional rehabilitation services can also be ordered by the Office for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, it is proposed to extend the circle of the contracting authorities of this service in such a way that... the given body can be the contracting authority. A key role in the implementation of professional rehabilitation services has been played by centres for professional rehabilitation that are jointly established by the Republic of Croatia and local (regional) and regional self-government units. In the past procedures of the establishment of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, which are those in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek, all actions on behalf of the Republic of Croatia as founders were taken over by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which meant a more complex and long-term procedure. In order to further simplify and speed up the procedure for the exercise of founding rights and duties over the centres for professional rehabilitation of amendments and additions to this law, it is proposed that the founding rights and responsibilities on behalf of the Republic of Croatia be carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. In addition to professional rehabilitation, certain amendments and additions to the law are provided for in the field of work and employment of disabled persons. The applicable law stipulates that persons with disabilities can be employed in the open labour market or under special conditions, so we are talking about protection workshops, i.e. integration workshops, with the obligation of employers to ensure reasonable adaptation of the workplace. Amendments and additions to the law propose to precisely specify and further define the concept of reasonable adjustment in such a way as to include job adjustment as well as working conditions and organisation. The provision of effective and practical measures for disabled persons involves not only architectural or technical adjustments but also adjustments relating to the conditions and organisation of work such as work at home, redistribution of tasks, provision of additional training and such. In addition, it is necessary to prescribe the obligation to ensure reasonable adjustment and, when carrying out the tender procedure itself, to test and/or interview because persons with disabilities are already at that stage, facing obstacles to access to the labour market and therefore we consider this part of a reasonable adjustment and further detailing it extremely important. In order to encourage the employment of disabled persons, it has proved particularly important to introduce a quota employment system that has been in place as you know it since 1.1.2015 and obliges all employers from both the public and the real sector who employ at least 20 workers to employ a certain number of persons with disabilities in an appropriate workplace in appropriate working conditions, namely 3% of the total number of employees. Although the trend in employment of disabled persons over the last 10 years has been the greatest increase since the application of quota employment. This is confirmed by the HZZ data according to which in 2015, a total of 2613 persons with disabilities were employed from the Institute's records, which is 39.2% higher than in 2014. During 2016, a total of 2853 people with disabilities were employed from the Institute's records, which is 9.2% more than in 2015 and that a positive trend in the employment of disabled persons continues this year and this year confirms this data during the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 August 2017 from the records, when, where data show us that a total of 2 000 430 persons with disabilities were employed from the Institute's records. The obligations of quota employment of persons with disabilities from the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities have been excluded by newly established employers, at the time of the introduction into operation for up to 24 months from the start of work. Following the application of the law, it was observed that the concept of a newly established employer and thus a period of exemption from payment of compulsory, quota employment would be interpreted differently. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the laws are proposed to accurately specify the period during which the newly established employer does not have an obligation to employ persons with disabilities in a way that explicitly prescribes that this period of 24 months is that from the date of entry into the relevant register, or from the date of establishment under a special regulation, if it is the bodies of the State Administration. In addition to the employment of persons with disabilities, the quota obligation can also be met in a number of replacement ways, for example by receiving persons with disabilities to practice, rehabilitation or professional training for work, the scholarship of their regular education, the conclusion of business cooperation agreements with protective and integrated workshops, etc. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the law are explicitly prescribed that these other means of meeting the mandatory quota employment of persons with disabilities are considered a replacement quota. For those employers who fail to meet the quota or by hiring or by substituting the payment obligation, 30% of the minimum wage per month for each person with disabilities they were obliged to employ. In 2017, it was the amount of 982 kuna and 80 limes. It is important to stress that other EU Member States, such as Austria, Germany, Italy, Slovenia, etc., also regulate the quota employment system of persons with disabilities, with the amount of monetary compensation in the Republic of Slovenia significantly lower and is 30% minimum wage, as I said 982 kuna compared to, for example, 70% of the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia, which is 563 euros. The fulfilment of the cash compensation obligation shall be accompanied by an artisanal office based on the data from the JOPPD form by which employers are obliged to submit a report on the amount of the amount of the cash compensation with the aim of administrative disbursement of employers and taking into account the fact that the Office for Skills is able to monitor and fulfil the obligation of cash compensation through the employer’s own OIB. These amendments and additions propose to abolish the obligation to submit a report through the JOPPD form and propose to abolish the final form by submitting the JOPPD form for the month of December 2017. Furthermore, the applicable law stipulates that the funds paid from the basis of the cash compensation for failure are used for the purpose of payment of incentives and rewards as well as for the implementation of projects and programmes for the employment of persons with disabilities provided by the Institute of Engineering. Assets not used during the current year shall be transferred and transferred to the following year. At present, a significant amount of funds paid from the base of the cash compensation is neutralised around 369 million kuna. And the reason is that the system of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, although established in 1.1.2015, did not fully live because the law allowed only legal assumptions for the establishment of the system but its technical implementation came only later. Although the work of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation was scheduled to be established in 1.1.2015 due to objective circumstances, it was not until the end of 2015 or early 2016, which resulted in a lower use of incentives for the employment of persons with disabilities but also a smaller number of people with disabilities involved in the labour market. Also due to objective circumstances, projects and programmes for the employment of disabled persons have been missing and will require a certain period of time. Therefore, the real relationship of the collected and the funds from the base of the cash compensation will be determined only after the system of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons becomes fully effective. In addition, it is important to stress that incentives and rewards for the employment of people with disabilities for the payment currently used are not sufficient for the effective integration of persons with disabilities into the world of work. Effective integration of people with disabilities is integration through various professional rehabilitation services, which also confirms the experiences of other countries. For this very reason, these amendments and the amendments to the laws propose to extend the purpose of the funds collected from the base of the financial compensation so as to enable these funds to be used for the sustainability and development of the system of professional rehabilitation. This will ensure the stability of the system of professional rehabilitation but also better and more effective integration of people with disabilities on the labour market. In addition, it is proposed that the funds collected from the base of the cash compensation can also be used for incentives for the employment of disabled persons who, other than the ZOSI, are paid by other users established by the register of budgetary and non-financial users, as well as for projects and programmes for the employment of persons with disabilities carried out by other users established by the register of budgetary and non-financial users. The method of use and allocation of these funds collected from the base of monetary compensation will be determined by a specific decision, i.e. by a decision of the Minister responsible for Labour and Pension System. When it comes to employment under special conditions, persons with disabilities can be employed in integrated and protective workshops. Integrated workshops have been introduced as newspapers in the field of employment of disabled persons, and so far they are not registered in the Republic of Croatia and the number of protection workshops is currently five. It is Suvenir Arbor Syrac, Uriho, Des, Tekop Nova Pula and Lada d.o.o. We also have three task force protection units, i.e. private organisational units among individual employers in which persons with disabilities are the Central Professional School in Varazdin, Hrast export, Puklavec d.o.o. and IPA Biokalnik, paper packaging industry d.o.o. The applicable law lays down the conditions for obtaining the status of a protection workshop in the sense that it is every institution or company that employs at least 51% of people with disabilities in relation to the total number of employees and exclusively in the workplaces. It should be clarified here that protection jobs, that they are jobs that require the simplest work operations and usually are carried out by people with disabilities who have identified greater difficulties in working or persons with the most difficult forms of disability. The introduction of a quota obligation to employ persons with disabilities or the possibility of replacing the quota by means of a business cooperation contract has offered them a number of jobs. However, the practice has shown that protection workshops with such a high share of disabled persons, precisely in job protection, 51% of them, are not able to carry out all these tasks in quality time. In addition, the criteria of 51% of people with disabilities in job protection are difficult to achieve because of the natural outflow of people with disabilities. In view of these assumptions that need to be fulfilled that a person with disabilities can work in a job, as well as the job requirements themselves, it is not to be expected that all the vacant jobs will continue to be protective jobs. Also, limiting the factor is the fact that there are currently not enough persons with disabilities assessed by the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation as persons employed exclusively in job protection. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the law continue to retain the basic criterion by which the protection workshop must employ 51% of people with disabilities in relation to the total number of employees themselves, while the criterion of the number of persons employed in the workplaces proposes to be mitigated in a way that is 20%. So, under new conditions, protection workshops will still be obliged to employ 51% of people with disabilities compared to the total number of employees, but 20% of them will be in job protection. In this way we retain the Institute of Protection Jobs and prevent discrimination against people with the most difficult forms of disability but we also take into account restrictive circumstances in the business of protection workshops. In addition, these amendments and amendments to the law propose to comply with the Labour Act, which stipulates that one member of the Governing Council of the Institution must be a representative of the worker appointed and recalled by the Workers' Council or workers in the elections if the working council is not justified. In this respect, it proposes to amend the composition and increase the total number of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Arts, from 7 to 9 respectively, in order to meet the criteria for the worker representative to comply with the Labour Act and another representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to have an odd number of members. In addition, these amendments and additions to the law are more specifically determined by the work of the Institute of Arts and, among other things, the identification of disability. Namely, the Institute in the process of skillful and interdisciplinary approach determines the disability of a person who is being trained. The establishment of disability shall be carried out in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, or in accordance with the bio-psycho-social model, taking into account the damage to the organism as well as the functional capable person i.e. its limitations and potentials. In addition to these key amendments and amendments to the laws, a correction of certain provisions is also proposed for the sake of clarity and accuracy of expressions and new technical finishing. Finally, it is important to note that, in the very process of amending and supplementing this law, all relevant institutions as well as the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities were very actively involved, representatives of the Associations for Persons with Disabilities who were an extremely important partner to us. Some of their proposals, such as the proposal to exempt persons with disabilities from the obligation of quota employment, are not adopted solely because of the fact that they are not subject to the regulation of this law, but will certainly be considered and regulated in an appropriate manner when amending and supplementing sublegal acts, i.e. regulations themselves. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51200	Thank you to the secretary of state. We have four replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51201	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mrs Majdić, in your presentation, you mentioned, now I don't know, whether it's correct, as regards the quota, in employers, employment, you said 3%, in Art. 8. The law provides for a minimum of 2 to 6%. That part didn't touch, so I'm curious exactly what percentage you meant by 3%. And what I've come up to, anyway, is just to get something out of practice a little bit of attention on rehab terms, it's certainly a person in an eyewitness. Namely, in the eyewitness, the person has to have 90% of the body damage due to loss of vision, 70% for loss of hearing, 90 total body weight, not individually exceeding 70. Why am I telling you this? In fact, the practice has shown a lot, and we can see from the indicators that you have already made for 2016, where the drastic decline of persons with disabilities is, that employers prefer to pay a fine of 30% minimum wage in the previous month. Namely, why are they doing this? Because 70% means finding a person with 70% disability isn't easy and putting him on the right job. So these persons must, of course, make a clear contribution and the purpose of this law is that they are involved in the work of employers, and thus also in society. But they choose or certain external ones, as provided for in the law, which is a good thing, the external communities on which the quota can be met or rather paid the penalty. My proposal would actually be that, or we have a lot of our fellow citizens who have less than 70% disability, which can't be registered as an eyewitness. Are these primarily women, perhaps on whom she was done... So the removal of the uterus, which I had as the employer of the problem, where they cannot perform certain physical tasks, must not, of course, be done in accordance with the profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, maybe eventually you're thinking about the future, a certain sliding measure to include those with less than a percent disability, not just those who are... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51202	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51203	Thank you, Your Honor. What should be accepted and particularly highlighted is that the current law, which is currently prescribed 3%, of the total number of employees, and what you have stated, 2-6%, was in your law until 2014. In addition, recently at the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Committee on the Working Pension System and the Social Partnership, was sent a memo, with concrete figures, related to the employment obligation quota and in that letter itself, and I believe that you received it, too, stands the figure, of 10555 persons enrolled in the obvious, persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51204	Okay. Two replicas, a respected colleague of Liposchack's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51205	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with associates. I must say, at first, that I welcome this bill of law. In fact, any improvement, related to such a subject, is essential and welcome. What makes me particularly happy is that this proposal allows people with disabilities to be directly referred to in a rehabilitation assessment at the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation. Why? It was precisely because so far the legal solutions provided for the first artificialing of the competent body, i.e. the articulation process itself. And that's where there were actually a lot of problems, not only in this case, but also in the case of the child with disabilities, but I'm going to talk about it some other time. And the artisan itself could last too long and often be braked by day, that is, the ultimate goal. Since 2015, quota employment has also been introduced, where the employer, as you said, with more than 20 employees, has the obligation to employ a number of people with disabilities. I want to stress here that people who are employed in this way are not just quotas. Often, because of their disability, they are forced to invest even more effort and effort in doing their day - to - day work. What is saddening and saddening is that very often these persons are employed in jobs with inadequate professional equipment and underpaid jobs. As a bright example, I can give you an example of my fellow citizen, and a friend of Miljenko Vukic, who, despite his disability, has been doing his job neatly in the city administration of the city of Ogulin for years, has been running a parallel with the association of blind Ogulins through which he is currently opening new jobs through projects. He is also a regular participant of all major European and world athletic competitions for people with disabilities and prides of the Croatian Paralympic. And in the end, I'm just gonna say it again, people with disabilities aren't just quotas. It is up to us to give them the opportunity and most importantly to give them the opportunity in adequate jobs, which correspond to their professional preparation, not in a way that meets certain legal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51206	Okay. 3 replicas, esteemed colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51207	Thank you very much. The basic task of this law is to hire people with disabilities. The ministry and the government obviously want to play that role with this law. Because if you allow it to be 20% of the protection space in a protective workshop, you're destroying the concept of this law. Because clearly 50% of people with disabilities can be employed. But it's the aim of the safety workshop to be to those who need special places. Because someone who, for example, has damages to 30,40% of the spine and is enrolled in an eyewitness, doesn't need a specially adjusted workplace and it falls into these 50% disabled persons. I don't know why it's the government and the ministry's intensity to change in this way the definition of a protection workshop. Because its main role is that those of our fellow citizens, so those with disabilities who need to adapt to the workplace, that their jobs are adjusted to their abilities, we are now reducing that to 20%. Or it's an initiative to give these 369 million unallocated to those who don't need it. And that, at once, thousands of protection workshops are created in Croatia, from which people with disabilities will not benefit at all. What you're proposing now is the negation of the law and that's what you shouldn't have done. I don't see any reason or reason to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51208	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51209	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Gristle, that's not true. The intensity of this law is just to ease the conditions for acquiring a protection workshop. And what needs to be pointed out once again specifically is that 51% of people with disabilities and 20% of job protection. And what we should point out in this sense is that the people who are employed in Croatia in these protective places have contracts and are paid for it. And this is one of the good examples that Croatia can also boast in the context of the EU because in the EU people in protective jobs receive benefits and we in the Republic of Croatia have working contracts. So this is exactly the opposite of what you're saying, this makes it easier to get protection workshops and actually only changes the percentage of jobs and not the percentage that says how many people with disabilities should be involved and that remains 51%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51210	And the last replica, dear colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51211	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, following closely your exposure and in fact regarding the amendment and addition of the Professional Rehabilitation Act should be noted as follows. So it was adopted in 2013, it was amended in 2014 and again in 2015 and now we are going to change and supplement this law. So, what am I saying? You need to listen to all those people who care about this law. It is good that you also respected the opinions of all those who were with you and not only in the task force but also those who were in public consultation. As far as this public consultation is concerned, I'd like to ask you the following. So the lawyer for disabled persons says that certain associations of disabled persons in their employment do not have to respect that decision of quota employment and common sense requires, you have here in public consultation Association of persons with disabilities Imotski who have 26 employees, so for people with disabilities. Logically, if we hire assistants for people with disabilities, we'll paint how a paraplegic or quadriplegic will hire a paraplegic person to be his assistant. So you're looking for a person who's not a person with disabilities. That's what you need to think about. And in the end, you might have said, or I'm the one who heard that certain sublaws might regulate this part. If I've heard that correctly, it would be good to repeat it, precisely because of these associations for people with disabilities that we actually penalize because of quota employment, which they need because they get from projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51212	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51213	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. Yes, I've already pointed out in the opening statement that what you're talking about and these are associations for people with disabilities that it will be, that it's the subject of the regulation that solves that part and we've been very, very good at communicating with Mrs. Ombudsman for people with disabilities, and that's what's pointed out in the opening statement itself. So the subject you're talking about is not the subject of the law, but the rules and regulations will regulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51214	Thank you, too. And now we're moving on to committees. Excuse me, just a minute, we're moving on to the boards. Do any of the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague of Maras, chairman of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held at the 20th session on 22 September 2017 discussed this Proposal for a Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons for Disabilities and as a parent body. After the opening presentation of the motionary and the arguments which were approximately similar to what we heard here today, the committee held a debate, we discussed facilitating the acquisition of the status of a protection workshop which means no longer having 51% of people with disabilities in the protection jobs already 20, which is one of the most significant changes. Other things that make it easier or should allow for simpler employment of persons with disabilities of 250 thousand at the working age in Croatia. At this point, it is also pointed out that out of these 250 thousand only 7204, according to Croatian Employment Service data, they are looking for a job on HZZ which says not that everyone else is employed, or that they have no problem but is saying that this problem should be dealt with more systematically and try to avoid, or to avoid, a law that ultimately will not allow most of these people to have the same or even better job opportunities than they have so far. On this side, after the debate was held, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that it should conclude that the draft law and amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, P.Z.E. No. 170. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51216	Thank you. I'm opening the debate now, first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51217	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honors Secretary of State, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The Ministry cited the reasons for amending and supplementing the applicable law in the need to remove and address certain shortcomings and ambiguities observed during its application, i.e. to speed up and facilitate the inclusion of unemployed persons with disabilities in the professional rehabilitation process. The MOST Club will therefore support these changes, although this law is certainly insufficient to allow all persons professional rehabilitation and to offer them employment. It is therefore positive that by amending the law, it is proposed to directly refer persons with disabilities directly to the centres for professional rehabilitation to a rehabilitation assessment without the need for prior skill as provided for by the applicable law, which was the highest of time and patience. So far, people with disabilities had to first pass the skill process and only then have the decision of the experts referred to a rehabilitation assessment at the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, which significantly slowed its inclusion in the labour market. The proposed amendments allow direct references of persons to the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation and on the basis of the results of rehabilitation of the evaluation, HZZ advisers will receive all information necessary for the purpose of preparing persons with disabilities for employment. Furthermore, following the UN Recommendation on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to provide employment and work with support, I would like to point out once again the importance and need for a working assistant of persons with disabilities to be provided. Therefore, according to the applicable Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and the Employment Encouragement Regulations, work assistant services provided for in the form of professional support at work but still insufficient numbers. Therefore, the ministry's recommendation should be further developed and complemented by the regulation that regulates it. However, what is devastating is that only 3 out of 20 ministries, even less than a year ago, have fulfilled the quota employment obligation of disabled persons, namely the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs and the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, according to the 2016 Labour Report of the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities. The obligation of this quota employment system is all employers who employ at least 20 workers, the quota is set at 3% compared to the total number of employees. Although the employer cannot employ the required number of persons with disabilities, the prescribed quota may be fulfilled by the so-called ‘requirement’. the replacement quota. For example, by concluding one or more contracts of business cooperation with a person with a self-employed disability, by announcing a scholarship, etc. According to the report, the 8 720 quota-employees in the process last year, only 1 048 fulfilled this obligation. In particular, more than 4 060 paid cash for the non-employment of people with disabilities in the name of the fund in charge of nearly 179 million kunas last year. On the other hand, at the end of last year, there were 979 employers who hired more persons with disabilities than the prescribed quota or who hired them even though they did not have to do so both those companies and these employers should certainly highlight and promote media as a real example to others. And for the end of a few final words about the protection workshops. The law of professional rehabilitation of employment of disabled persons provides for the establishment of protection workshops with the aim of hiring people with disabilities who are not employed in the open labour market and who need the highest level of support. For the employment of these persons in protective workshops, employment in a workplace is a job tailored to the skills and needs of disabled persons. Today, five protection workshops and 3 protection units operate in Croatia where 509 persons are employed in total and should be noted that they are almost tenfold less than Germany or Macedonia, although we therefore believe that changes to the laws that would have been necessary for the status of a protection workshop to be acquired and an institution or a company that employs at least 20% of people with disabilities in the workplaces. The MOST Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51218	All right, we have four replicas. First of all, he's a respected colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51219	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, in your discussion, you mentioned the natural problem of hiring people and people with disabilities and what is particularly concerned is the data that we received from the Employment Office means from persons who are persons who are working and who can actively participate in the Employment Service, registered only 7000 and 3%, respectively, of the total number of people with disabilities. Which suggests that people do not register, or see how the state can help them and thus make it easier for them to work. It signals the most to me, that even with the law that we have, and with the improvements that we are going to bring now, that people are not aware there, nor is it in practice that this someone is easier to come by if they are disabled to a particular job. Or you didn't popularize it among employers. Because if people, and certainly more than three percent of them are registered at the Employment Service. So if it's at the Bureau, let's say it's registered now to some 250,000 people, and if we take the percentages that are disabled, they're more than 7,000. So people don't log in, because they don't see the possibility of achieving certain benefits or those benefits being presented, maybe even employers who could hire them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51220	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51221	Well, I agree with you completely. We can make perfect laws, but if we don't have people's consciousness through the media about this problem, it won't mean anything to us. I worked at school for 20 years, so I remember how much resistance we had in school alone when we received a disabled person, because parents were afraid that this person wouldn't be professional enough to work with their children. And then when they saw how professional that person was and how much the children loved her, the consciousness changed. If you need to... In laws, you need to change people's minds then you'll... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to improve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51222	Thank you. Second replica of the esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague, in your presentation, I'd like to point out that non-employment of persons with disabilities, by the ministries and other public institutions. I just want to tell you, maybe you don't know it, but here's no renegade to point out that one of the problems is so weak, I would say, employment, undefined reasonable adjustments. This law also solves this, because if you can't and you don't have the opportunity to adapt to a person with disabilities, to participate equally in tests, to enter into an institution that should be employed equally with others. And the individual adjustment, it causes such a huge cost to an employer who would be inappropriate, then you can't expect employment. Of course, in, I would say, in the circles of people with disabilities, the opinion prevails that despite undefined reasonable adjustments, there could still be a slightly greater number of employment of people with disabilities, but here I believe that these changes and additions of the law will be resolved and resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51224	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51225	I agree with you that not only do the ministries have no adjustment, but one of the most basic institutions as a school have no adjustment. I remember when she was a student who was in a wheelchair and my school didn't have an elevator. And since the physics and chemistry cabinets were upstairs, then me and the janitor carried that person up to the floor in our hands every hour. And we're full of words of education and curricular reform and we haven't solved the most basic things, like an elevator or things like that. So here, schools don't have access, let alone the ministry. And it needs to be solved and the situation will improve.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51226	3 replicas, esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51227	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you said employers don't pay. The truth is... A report almost half of those who need to pay because they don't hire people with disabilities, and they should. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't pay a fee. This law allows them to do it legally. Because if it's not in the JPD form, there's no way the Bureau can see that the employer didn't pay the quota contribution. It will be seen at the end through the OIB because with the JPD form you can see every month whether someone has paid or not. And I don't see why it's being abolished, given that the JPPD pattern is an electronic form, which has been in use for three years now. The employers are used to it. Only if we don't want employers who don't pay, they keep on paying. Because through the OIB, you can make up for it when at what time, I guess the Bureau will know what time they're going to do it, and with the JPPD pattern, you can know right away. Therefore, these four, nearly 4,000 employers, which 3100 employers, who do not pay or pay in part, will no longer pay at all. They will continue to deafen, nor will the Bureau have the opportunity to track them down, and then, with a solution, to charge them with what they owe to the Bureau. I don't see why it's done. The only thing we say all the time is that this government obviously goes hand in hand to employers, so that in this way it enables them to further enrich the back of workers, i.e. persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51228	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51229	Dear fellow Mrsic, if that is true, there are representatives of the government or the ministry who will probably respect this proposal, I personally believe that employers who do not pay who avoid being on a pillar of shame and in the media, and employers who have persons with disabilities and over the quota must be promoted to the media as an example of healthy business in the Republic of Croatia. So if this proposal of yours makes sense, I believe that the government or the ministry will respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51230	Thank you. And the last replica of my esteemed colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51231	Dear President of the Parliament. Your Honor, in your presentation, you mentioned the legal obligation of all employers who have over 20 employees to employ disabled persons in the 3% quota. According to data from the Employment Office at the moment there are about 7705 people with disabilities and that is cca 2.2% of the total unemployed. In the first three months of this year, 418 people with disabilities were employed. Most of them were employed in the city of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Primorje-Gorski County. Do you think it's fulfilling a legal obligation or maybe it's an outflow of healthy, young labour abroad?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51232	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51233	Dear colleague Kirin, I think both things are at stake. So you can see the disproportionateness in certain units of local self-government, richer cities have a much higher percentage and that again we say that every law and this law touches Croatian realities. So certain units of local self-government that have less resources can't fill it, richer cities can, but what's important is that in these units of local self-government we change people's consciousness that it's good, that the shifts happen and I believe here's the shift ten years ago and today to see and to go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51234	This is what we came to the end of the line. We now move on to the discussion of the HDZ Club of Representatives and the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing as we have already heard about the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. These are his other changes since his adoption in 2013. Persons with disabilities were generally not fully satisfied with this law. Although we must say he did bring improvement in the employment of persons. with disability, this is also seen from HZZ data. Much of it is also important that people with disabilities have started hiring, not only because of the application of this law, but also because of their education. We have to say that people with disabilities have been conscious lately, so they want to go further to school, which was not the case because they listened to their parents tell them that it might not be for them. With these amendments and additions to the law, I would say that people with disabilities will be made easier to break into the open labour market, and then easier to hire and under protective conditions. These few amendments, which the secretary of state has explained very extensively and in detail, are extremely important. Like that. as said, these changes will speed up and facilitate the inclusion of unemployed persons with disabilities in the process of professional rehabilitation. As far as professional rehabilitation is concerned, it is extremely important that it finally comes to life in the Republic of Croatia. As much as we bring in good regulations in terms of hiring a disabled person, so much is one regulation that we will have to change, which is the Pension Insurance Act that determines how much the benefits are during professional rehabilitation. It will need to be increased given that the persons with disabilities themselves when you refer them to a professional rehabilitation system do not want to simply go because often this fee is less than sick and therefore avoids professional rehabilitation, and thus their future employment is very, very questionable. In order for the system of professional rehabilitation to be implemented in the best possible way, we are extremely important centres for professional rehabilitation, which are finally given a certain level of efficiency, we will give them a certain part of the funding from this fee because it was not realized that what was imagined when this law was passed, and this is that the centres for professional rehabilitation will be able to finance from their services, it is simply not possible. And here these changes will allow them to start working in the best way possible so that they can cover their regions and can implement people with disabilities through a system of professional rehabilitation. Furthermore, it is extremely important to have quota employment. And by passing this law in 2013, I would say that it caused boom in the open labour market, since employers knew nothing about it and many, I would say, did not want to know anything, and unfortunately some still today. Through quota employment, therefore, an employer who does not meet quota employment does not employ a disabled person, so he does not use any other replacement quota that the law provides for must pay the fee that our employers are on not so long ago and I believe that you have all had the opportunity to hear that said it was an imposition. I share the satisfaction that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry have taken the view that this fee will not be abolished or reduced but that employers can if they do not want it and cannot pay the choice of a series of quotas offered by the law and that they can thus fulfil their legal obligation. And those newly founded will be freed from paying this obligation. We think it's logical until they say they don't stand on their feet. And what we have to say is that the offer of people with disabilities regarding their education is in pretty bad shape. And education is what we're going to have to make sure that people with disabilities don't get educated anymore for jobs that are absolutely not wanted on the labour market. Unfortunately, it's still happening today. As much as the system facilitates and enables people with disabilities to function in society and so in the education system so much is the person with disabilities himself, I would say they must start and realize that only their quality education and their employment can contribute to their quality life. As far as protection workshops and these 20% employment obligations are concerned, 51% of people with disabilities remain. However, 20% in the workplaces and for that reason and not as I said earlier, partly because the reasonable adjustment was not established by this law. The intensity is also what I think and many people with disabilities, as well as protection workshops, that each job is a job protection. And that's what we were saying when we passed this law, but now, until the reasonable adjustment system is functioning, it was simply not possible to lift the general protection jobs and say that all 51% of jobs are protected because we also have to allow the protection workshops a certain period of adjustment. When this law was passed in 2013, something was to happen which would be extremely bad for the position of persons with disabilities and their employment, which is the abolition of the protection workshops. Unfortunately, we have fought that, with severe suffering, unfortunately, but we have fought to keep the protection workshops, there are few as you have heard, as the secretary of state said, only a few in the Republic of Croatia but have opportunities to establish. And here I am looking forward to finally, soon, having the first integration workshop in the Republic of Croatia, it will be our popular Hedona from the Cross, so people with disabilities have decided on that kind of employment through the system of integration workshops. As for further employment of persons with disabilities, I think it is extremely important to note how important it is that people with disabilities are employed as much as possible in the open labour market and then that part of people with disabilities who can't find a job on the open labour market to be employed in protective or integrated workshops. And therefore, of course, professional rehabilitation is extremely important, so for several years in Croatia, it has been possible for those with disabilities who have not had the opportunity to work anywhere in the workplaces and through virtual workshops in the framework of a protection workshop to prepare for their new job and I must tell you that a large part of the people with disabilities who have passed the rehabilitation in the virtual workshop system are being employed right on the open labour market. Almost 60% of them. I believe that this law, as I have already mentioned, will bring people with disabilities what they wanted and that this law will finally, at last, make me particularly happy, and that is what the secretary of state and noted, finally enables the Office of Arts to determine disability. Since its application from 2014 to today, we have no possibility and no one in the Republic of Croatia except for Croatian military disableds has a record of being a disabled person. This is what we have finally made possible by these amendments and additions to the Institute of Art, at first there will be a conviction that someone with disabilities and ultimately for a certain time, we expect that this will be a solution that every person with disabilities will be able to prove their status. The establishment of disability is not only important for the employment of persons with disabilities, it is important for the exercise of rights in all other systems. I believe that we will finally be able to even know how many people with disabilities we have in the Republic of Croatia because then we will see the difference between physical damage and disability. It is not necessary that any physical damage caused disability, so I believe that these changes and complements are exclusively for the benefit of people with disabilities, protective integration workshops and all employers in the open labour market. And here, at the end of my presentation, I want to say once again thank you to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resolute Ministry for recognising that this law is the first law that needs to be changed and that applies to persons with disabilities. The HDZ Club supports changes and additions to this law in first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51236	Thank you very much, very much, very much. There are no replicas at its presentation and we continue on behalf of the HDS Representatives Club, HSLS, HDSSB, representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51237	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I speak on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. Under a law called the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I've already discussed some of this law on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, so I'm going to be relatively brief. I'm always interested in one law in what is the intention of this law and what messages it sends, not this one, but every law. It's here if I can read the intention of easier hiring people with disabilities and this law should regulate it. In addition, the message would be to the public the adoption of this law or its basic provisions or such as it is or even better that will arise after the second reading, what kind of state do we want? This law has a much greater meaning than employment itself. It brings a message of whether we have given up on the social state, whether we have accepted the large and main characteristics of the market, exclusively market economy and terror markets, brings a message about what kind of state we are or what we want to be. That's why I like it, he left here with a colleague of Maras who said that the state can help people with disabilities, that's a message that seems very important to me because helping someone with disabilities means helping someone who is at a certain level damaged and giving him the opportunity to in his human abilities, and which... What's important is to say, they don't have to be less in certain segments than those that are so-called. No disability, no disability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll just point out the fact that, in time, the Nobel Prize for Economics was given to an American who suffered from schizophrenia. So I come here immediately to the idea and to the meaning of disability as such. We have to do everything through this law, that certain, I say certain biological dysfunction, doesn't mean that this person is less valuable and that it can't be as valuable to society as to one who doesn't have that dysfunction. The disability can also be based on mental function or mental disturbances. The psychics I'd say were cleavages in a certain part. The example that I mentioned earlier suggests that this does not necessarily have to be a handicap, but must be an incentive. If you want, I can set an example of painters who are hyperrealists. The way they create images, none of us can create it because it doesn't have such a psychic structure that it can. That doesn't mean they're sick or disabled. However, what disability brings, surely under circumstances, when it is not regulated in the right way, by the right attitude of citizens and fellow citizens towards such people, brings very often social isolation, it has a significant impact on the quality of life and, in fact, represents, in a certain way, so-called. healthy environments. The question is how healthy and reasonable and moral and sensitive that environment is in a human sense. That's why every law of this kind is supported and supported. And every good idea, every good idea, just before I heard from my colleague Mrsic that it is not wise to remove a particular form, where it is controlled how those who are obliged to act under this law meet their obligations. I fully support this colleague in that, that there is no point in removing any detail, that would send a message or make a commitment to such people, that it is a very serious thing and that there is no one right to play with it. I especially want to say a few sentences about the problem of the art of these people. That's what I was talking about on the board. Unfortunately, the number of witches alone, the number of witches alone, is not a sufficient factor that would lead us to believe that the problem has been solved. Skillful persons with disabilities must make up the best experts in all areas, because a man is very complex and the disability is in itself very complex. Physical disability can have a profound effect on mental function, and mental function can affect general disability. That's why you need to take care of yourself, I've told you that, about which people witch. They can't be artists of people who don't have professional experience in a particular area, nor can it be a place just to hire doctors who have passed some course and who, according to the art schemes, every man, every person with disabilities is a special story and because of that, I think it's very important, that they work there either occasionally or constantly anyway, people who have experience and clinical and each other in the assessment of disability. If that happens, I assure you, that the grades of people who have been on the art field will be such that there will be mistakes and then, but will bring a lot of laundry savings, much more pleasure and much better functioning of the complete system. I'm not just saying this, I'm just saying it from experience because I've been faced with the facts of unfortunately the commission for the best reason they don't understand the problem. This is just as much as a note. The party advocates' club in front of which we speak will support this law, perhaps we are going with which amendment and I would like to implement here in this change of law the problems of justice, sociality, empathy to the satisfaction of people with disabilities, to the satisfaction of all of us because this law concerns all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51238	Thank you very much to Agent Goran Dodig. We have two replicas on his exhibit. The first replica is from Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Dodig, in your presentation, you have in some way caused fear that, by removing this form for employers, it will come to the conclusion that certain employers do not pay the fee that is laid down by law. You need to know that this is not going to happen, since the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities through the OIB have very simple information about all employers and can check who paid the fee and who didn't. And believe me, they take very good care of it, we have insight into the fact that they're very careful about who hasn't paid and they're sending warnings, etc. So there's no fear of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51240	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51241	I accept if it is so there's no reason not to believe you, but listening to my colleague Mrsic, I thought he was worried about it. And it seems to me that here we all want to do something for people with disabilities, so I don't see this as a party shooting but simply as a wish to make everyone as good a law as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51242	Thank you very much. The next replica to the presentation of Representative Dodig as a replica from Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51243	My colleague Dodig, we disagree in a lot of things, and here we agree that I would sign your discussion from the beginning to the end and it is not true that by removing the JOPPD pattern that everything will remain the same because, according to the OIB, you can control it, but by the JOPPD form, you can sanction it because the JOPPD form is a form of the Tax Administration that has forced collection mechanisms. And I don't see why this item so payment of quotas is being thrown out of the JOPPD form. Therefore, the JOPPD form is electronic, it does not do any damage to the employer, it is automatic, therefore there is no reason, unless it wants to be granted to certain employers who are now not paying with this control of the OIB of the Institute, sending notices, JOPPD, tax, control and everything else again 3100 or does not meet or partially meet. And now we're removing another control mechanism that's very simple, which is on a monthly basis. What makes the Bureau know that someone doesn't pay, or is it necessary to hire another 30, 40 people in an office that will then go through all the OIBs every day and see if that employer paid or didn't pay? Very simple JOPPD pattern you can extract it electronically, it gives you APIS. What's going to happen now? What's going to happen now? What's going to have a special program from the OIB where they're going to ask the employers who paid for it, or that's the problem. I don't see why the government does it because nothing, so very simply APIS gives you a list that day when someone paid or didn't, unless you go to the employer's hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51244	Thank you very much for representing Miranda Mrsic. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51245	My colleague Mrssic, I understand you only at the wrong address you wrote, I accept that, I would like to be as safe as possible and as best as possible. So I accept the fact that you've been working on this problem, that you know it better than I do, that your intentions are good and there's no reason not to respect it, as far as I'm concerned, and whatever.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51246	Thank you very much for your response to the replica. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS is Representative Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51247	Thank you, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys and other representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will, of course, accept any law that leads to facilitating the integration of persons with disabilities into society and the implementation of professional rehabilitation and thus this proposal to amend and supplement the law. In fact, some of the things that are improving these changes are acceptable, above all it proposes to extend the purpose of the funds collected with the basis of a monetary reward for those employers who do not have a quota that can also be used for the sustainability and development of the system of professional rehabilitation itself. In fact, what is mentioned in this proposal and we see from statistics that almost 40% of people with disabilities are employed than in 2014 while 2016 is already 9.2. Obviously, and that's what I've come up with earlier in the replica, to get a certain pool, and we've seen and we've heard here that the total is about 10.5 thousand people, and here we spoke in 2015, 2600, then 2853 in 2016, 2014. 1800 therefore surely that the first wave of the law itself was good and the first wave was filled, of course now we must move on to how to make other things, that the more people involved there and the meaning of that law is. What I have and as a recent and employer was a problem and what I want here is highlighted are the problems that happen in practice. Namely, in the eyewitness as a basic let’s say a document based on which persons and persons who recognise disability can acquire the conditions for, obtaining the terms of employment of the person from the fulfillment of the quota and certain reliefs says that there are persons who, of course, recognise the disabled by different regulations and persons with disabilities, who have at least 60% of the physical impairment due to loss, or functional lower extremity disorder, 70% of the physical impairment due to loss, or 90% of the total physical damage in the case of several different physical damages, with no less than 70% individually. I, as an employer, had a very difficult problem with a company of over 120 employees. By the way, in the replica and the law, it states in Articles 8 to 6% on the number of employees if it is more than 20 that the quota has to be met, but colleagues warned from the ministry, or pointed out that 3%, the regulation defines it as a minimum that it is very difficult to find depending on the activity of a particular company. To go to a larpurartism or to hire a person only to hire them will not do anyone any good, and at least because she must feel that she contributes, she must know there that because she will work and contribute to the company, whether public or private, not only because she is disabled, or has a certain reduced physical, or working capacity because she does not have complete incompetence. And then we bring in, especially with companies that do some and physical jobs, manual jobs, so let's say offices where there aren't, many private companies in particular have no availability if we're talking about the location itself, the headquarters of the company, are not available to people with disabilities, so that's already the first obstacle to employment. It may sound banal, but that's right. Then, of course, it might be the law and, in the future, predict it, so for those who want to meet it and have no idea that certain reliefs or incentives are given to remove these obstacles, we talk about private ones, public institutions have, above all, that but even some public companies do not have an easier approach, so that is one direction to go. And then we come to a situation, both private and public, which is easier to pay a fine that is 30% of the minimum wage amount for the period for which the quota was to be met. And that's why I'm saying it's commendable that it's expanding the scope of what it's done to use those funds that are primarily used to cancel out the very reliefs that employers who hire but those in the account are doing if they're watching, so I'd better pay 30% of the minimum wage than I can now do something with a man just because that's how the law prescribed that I have it. So my goal may be, so here we have reached some limit of 70% disability. We have and this is the same colleague well noticed that not all physical damages are not disability but that we have certain physical damages that have a more significant percentage of the reduction in working ability of up to 50%, which are not covered by these. I'm not saying that they should have the same relief but I as an employer had a lot of employees of my own who because of physical labor had to be here under... operational procedures and have reduced workability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's no relief on them, the employer doesn't know what to do with them, God forbid they're on a set, they're certainly not going to be extended to the contract, and even if six months, someone has to wait to get back to work at the same time because of course you can't forbid someone who can't do a particular job that he's qualified to do, especially if we're talking about cleaners or other manual occupations. So in that sphere, it's a lot of our fellow citizens who may not have entered the eyewitness, who have a problem especially when we talk about structures. When we talk about administrative affairs here, of course, then there's a matter of profession. And that is why the question of that rehabilitation professionally is that they are just qualified for those jobs that they can do and that is the meaning, one of the most important meanings of this law because everyone has, of course, that these are accounting jobs, administrative, legal, human or any other business in any company that implies office work, provided that I have already said that it is possible for this person and that it can come to the job itself, it may also sound banal but it is a serious assumption that this law should then be given to us much more, much more. Of course you don't stop at that. Because when the professional rehabilitation is over, it doesn't mean we've got the finished man. We know that the experience of kudikamo is sometimes much more important than the paper itself. This means that we try and it is stated in the law of professional training that it is also included and that it can also be completed with the quota, to see a step further how these persons can gain a certain working experience and advantage on the market that can indeed contribute equally to the development of a particular company in which they are created and, of course, the purpose of their integration into society itself. And in fact, in that direction, we should think about it and, of course, once again, the HNS Club will support these changes, and even any changes that contribute to the improvement and standard of our citizens are welcome, and here I hope, I am glad that we have removed that doubt in the percentages of the number of employees compared to the number of workers, so that's regulation 3... Fixed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is absolutely commendable, but I hope that these specific suggestions that come from the field will be considered too, which we simply encounter in the implementation of such difficulties regardless of the good intentions we go to try as many of these people as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51248	Thank you very much for representing Stephen Curai. At his presentation, we have one replica from MP Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51249	My dear colleague, you are also an entrepreneur and I'm wondering if the institution is in charge of implementing this law has ever received any initiative to help your company adjust their jobs so that they can hire people with disabilities because by law, you can. So if you're hiring a person with a disability to build even an elevator, so if there's stairs and a ramp, so you can get it from an office and you can get it completely free because that's what law enforcement is, which is why odds are paid, quotas are not paid to punish employers, penalties are imposed on those who don't pay, but on the other hand, it's the intensity that all these funds are returned to employers to adjust their jobs and that they can employ more persons with disabilities. So I'm wondering if you've ever been contacted by an office and have you been offered to adjust your company's workplace to a disabled person? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51250	Thank you very much for representing Miranda Mrsic. The answer to the line. Representative Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51251	Thank you. My colleague Mrsić, therefore, in my personal experience that this law has come into force means that for 3, 4 years, I have not received any such memos that have been made available to them, what we have contacted certain associations that gather persons with disabilities and through them and through competitions, or they have sent us a number of our members from among whom we have chosen one who has also completed the conditions in the eyewitness and has absolutely been incorporated in the company itself, so he could contribute. But this part, the answer to your question, so we didn't get in the form of a memo, the information on my desk didn't come and maybe there was some topic that it was, that it was the cost or mail or paper that made it possible for everyone to get on some wider platform from HGK or craft chamber to include all employers and especially public companies and it absolutely agrees with them that they should do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51252	Thank you very much, very much, very much. We are now continuing to present on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would be more pleased if you discussed today's report on the work of the employment office for people with disabilities and professional rehabilitation than about kidnapping to change the law. I'd be happy to change the law if they found that the law didn't work and the law itself didn't produce any effects, but that's not true. The law produced effects and produced very significant effects. We have hired more persons with disabilities, they are better and easier to hire so that, in the light of the draft amendments to this law, I miss the crucial part, which is that the report on what and how this law has been shown in practice, and how this law has been done and as far as the employers themselves are concerned, but also what this law has done for persons with disabilities. So there's no record of what the effects are, which is why we're changing this law, which is why we're changing all of this, whether to improve the employment of people with disabilities or to sort of go hand in hand to employers. There are therefore, in the bill of law and certain things which are mandatory and which are good to change but 2/3 of these changes will not bring any better conditions for hiring people with disabilities, nor will they improve the system itself. What I expected from the Government and from the RES is some significant change that would then allow the whole system to be established as best as possible because the whole system is conceived in the way it is in the Republic of Austria, where in the Republic of Austria you have a very well-developed system of professional rehabilitation and that is the second main objective of this law, which is to establish a system of professional rehabilitation in the Republic of Austria that was good one 20 or 30 years ago and then we don't know why, for which reason, simply that system practically disappeared. And people with disabilities left themselves in the wind of the labour market and did not protect them, and because of this law, it was passed. The law is important because employers are aware that they need to hire people with disabilities and it is for certain employers and it has won success, I must say that it has won success in the large employers whose owners are foreigners. I won't mention the names now that I'm not doing that ad, but the entry into force of this law, those great employers who do the same in their own countries, even without forcing the law because it's something that is socially acceptable, have hired a large number of people with disabilities. So, the aim of this law in society is to raise awareness of employers that it is good for society to hire a person with disabilities, that it will be one of the best workers because it has proved that persons with disabilities are people who overheat in their workplace, that they want to work, that they are days from the best workers and on the other hand employers improve the climate in their working environment. So these were the intensities of the law, I'm sorry that in this explanation of this law we're changing it, it's not. It is totally unacceptable that after 3 years of application of this law around 3100, 3200 employers partially pay compensation, because they do not employ a sufficient number of people with disabilities and that this number is practically not moving since 2015. And then instead of working on it, employers pay that quota, we break the obligation to be a JOPPD form. There's counsel Shuker who introduced the OIB, well done. Some order has been introduced into the country and the JOPPD is an instrument that has introduced order in payment and I see no reason why it is, therefore, the payment of the quota being thrown out of the JOPPD forms. And again, it will lead to an even greater non-payment of obligations to employers under this law. I don't see a cut, since it's an electronic form, that employers don't get any expense, fill out POPP forms, and only if they want to go hand in hand to employers, who obviously don't want to pay and don't want to hire people with disabilities. The second frantic data is that on the day of 13.9 this year, 369 million 202 thousand 372 kuna 45 liras of neutral funds on the account of the office. It's something that's inadmissible. Because these funds are meant for employers, for those who meet the quota, that what I have repeatedly stressed, that they are intended, for employers who are socially responsible, to allow them to adapt jobs to people with disabilities. But not just that. I expected that here, based on the resources we didn't spend, we would allow these funds to be given to schools, so that people with disabilities can adapt to schools, to pass the law, and from these funds we would scholarship people with disabilities, to a known employer, because in this way we would raise their level of education and that these funds do not stand, these funds only correspond to the Minister of Finance because they are in the account and receive interest when they are placed somewhere by the banks or the CNB. So that's something the government obviously didn't want to deal with, and it's not because obviously, I was hoping, because of that, when I heard that the law was changing, that it would be one of the reasons that we have, which is at our disposal, we'd spend the best we can on people with disabilities. As far as the workshops themselves are concerned, it is absolutely unacceptable for me to do what is done. The role of the protection workshop is very clear. This employs people with disabilities and people who need special jobs, tailored to their psychophysical abilities. What I'm doing right now is back on the hands of the employers. Croatia does not need 2,000 protection workshops, which will happen with this law. Because if we reduce the number of protection jobs, and we know that protection workshops enjoy special tax treatment, to enjoy special reliefs when employers do business with them, that we will get fictitious protection of the workshop, where people who are disabled will work, because as I have already mentioned spines 30, 40, 50, 60 70% you are a person with disabilities, but you do not need a tailored job. You will not work in a protective workshop, you will work with another employer, and this will create new protection workshops, fictitious, which will allow these unfair employers to earn extra profits on the back of disabled people, persons with disabilities, and to be unfair competition for employers who do their job fairly and hire people with disabilities. So I appeal to the ministry, that these things that are listed in the 2 readings are thrown out and that they think about why they introduced it into the law itself. Of course there are good things, it's one thing to clearly define that the company that started working, that it has a period... a period of 24 months, in order to apply this law to this company and on the other hand, it is a better definition of substitute quotas, because it is something that will also allow for the promotion of employment of persons with disabilities to be promoted as much as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This last, therefore, last amendment that the worker's representative must be in the board of directors and compliance with the law, I would not comment at all. As for the quotas for the association, and if they are not defined by this law, I am absolutely against it, to exempt the associations from this law. Because associations are the ones who gather people with disabilities and they should be the first to show how this law applies, but I totally agree that what is a colleague of Babic, if I listened well, that if you have assistants, who are there, that they are exempt from the number on which the quota is paid. That's another pair of freaks, so that's a different story. So associations must be the first to implement this law, and that does not need to be amended because the institution can assess by its decision which number of jobs are the ones to which this law applies. So I think that the law has been failed, the amendments to the law are missed, it will not bring any better to people with disabilities, it will allow employers to continue to avoid paying quotas, and that these funds will be accumulated in the account and will not be spent on what should be spent, which is to improve the work and life of persons with disabilities. Thank you. Nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51254	Thank you, Agent Miranda Mrsic. At his exhibition we have two replicas, the real replica of the representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51255	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Mrsic, I'd have a lot to say to you right now, but I just don't have time, so I'll just be a little while. The State Secretary will probably explain to you in the final address why it is not true that the form will bring a hit to employers, not disabled persons. You were the minister when the law was passed in 2013, you should have strengthened the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities to start working immediately so some things might be different, unfortunately you did not. It's just amazing to me that you may not have asked, no one was talking about getting rid of all the paying associations, but only those associations of people with disabilities doing social services, only those associations were talking about them, and that's what needs to be done. Can't someone who hires 100 personal assistants have such a commitment because it's simply not possible. Associations don't have systematic funding. As far as the protection workshops are concerned, colleague Mrsic, so remember that they should not have been and you know very well that and that we have fought hard to keep them and that this reduction is not what you say. This will very soon lead us to all jobs within one protection workshop as well as protection jobs. But since there was no reasonable adjustment that would allow all employers and even protection workshops to work properly, simply this is the only way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51256	Thank you. Replicate reply by Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51257	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lukačić. Well, you didn't exactly fight in 2016 when former Minister Šikic wanted to abolish the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, you know that it was an intensities at the time, that it was an emergency for the witches to return to the Pension Insurance Office, you didn't say a word then against it. Now praise the Institute, I am glad that the Institute has held up and that probably no one will ever have the idea to put an end to it and to cut down on its part - time work. Clearly, when something starts at zero, then you can't expect it to work in full glory. It's not even now three years behind the beginning of work yet in full glory, especially this part of art. But the artisan, I listened to you neatly, but the artisan is something that is important for the institute, and for the first time we've raised our salaries to the level of the one they should have and the profession to raise where they should have. And you can't convince me that protective workshops like you say will lead to these protection workshops becoming all of a sudden beautiful, wonderful, wonderful. And you and I both know how hard it is to maintain a single safety workshop, and with this, you're creating an inflation of protective workshops. I'm not sure how this would apply to your employer URIHO unless it was their idea to do so. Therefore, this will lead to inflation of protective workshops that will not actually be a protection workshop but will thus be deceived by the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51258	Thank you very much. And a replica from the representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51259	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mrsic. I listened carefully to your expert debate, a little truth is it's startled me by your assessment that two-thirds of this bill doesn't help people with disabilities to be employed, so two-thirds of the law doesn't do it. In that sense, you pulled the parallel, so you said it was more convenient for entrepreneurs, at least for those entrepreneurs who are trying to abuse the whole legal proposal and in the sense that you said when not publishing the JOPPD forms that they could then hide what they didn't pay. And it seems to me that if it is so that this law stands on the side of the employer, and it does not help the employment of persons and disabilities then it turns out that it is a missed story because the law is real... was on the side of each other and employers to have the motivation to hire persons with disabilities, and eventually to people with disabilities to find a job because you mention this amount that surprised me too, too much money remained unused and that's the whole missing story. If you can still comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51260	Thank you very much for your representative. Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51261	That what I said and in my presentation, I agree and completely with your facility that and then this 329 million is too much money on the account of the Bureau and that I expected these amendments to the law to go in order for these funds to be spent. These are not budget funds, these are funds in a special account of institutions that are again intended to return to employers. I expected it to expand in a way that could return to educational institutions, adjust kindergartens, adapt schools, return to employers for job adjustment, and that's the balance. So you will be paying the funds but we will not take them into the budget but we will return them back to other employers who want to hire people with disabilities. And by removing the JOPPD forms, so you can't see it, and you can see the JOPPD pattern monthly whether or not someone has paid it. APIS can give us a report on whether the employer is paying or not. According to the OIB, I don't believe it, so according to the OIB, the Bureau will have to have their own system where they're going to have to go after the OIB, again, or it's the urgency to hire new 20, 30 people in the office who'll then control it instead of getting a list from the APIS where it tells you right then they had an obligation so much and so much, it didn't pay it that much and so much. And it's e-mailed, so very simple. I don't see why this is done unless you want to please all employers, I don't believe or certain employers who don't pay and we see that they don't pay, but are, already, the institution is already, but the law has been implemented for 3 years, and again it's those 3100 that partially pay or don't pay. So I expected the law to go in that direction, not in reverse, to be even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51262	Thank you, Agent Mrsic. In accordance with Article 184, the government's representative is now looking for a word and this is Mrs Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my intention and need to say a few words in particular about the JOPPD pattern mentioned so much. So let's solve that mystery. It is therefore exclusively about the administrative discharge of entrepreneurs. And if someone really has something against it, then it's sad. Given the JOPPD pattern, the following should be highlighted. It serves exclusively as a reporting system, not as a control system. The control system is still running the ZOSI, so the Bureau and that's what the Bureau is doing. Therefore, in the explanation that has arrived at the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, unfortunately you were not on that committee,... You could have been a non-member. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51264	Okay, please, please, and Mr. Mrsic don't be in the dialogue right now, you have the elements later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51265	This letter therefore states that the number of solutions issued is the obligation to pay cash compensation in 2017 4181. In addition, 9,000 and 189 are employers who are bonds of quota employment and they employ 9,000 120 people with disabilities. There is therefore no mystery related to the administrative discharge of our employers and it goes exclusively with a positive intention and nothing else. In addition, looking at the rules that came into force in 2014 and having to do with the questions that were raised here earlier, I wondered when the rule of encouragement for the employment of persons with disabilities came into effect. This happened in 1.4.2014, and that rule was signed by then by Minister Mr. Mrsic, who had just asked Mr. Curaj whether or not Mr. Curaj had contacted him while he was an employer with a question about whether you needed any funds, etc. It is in this 2014 regulation that you signed that the employer addresses the ZOSI, or agency, with his own initiative. Besides, I'd like to say next. There has been a lot of talk about raising awareness about people with disabilities, however, I absolutely think that we all agree on the need to raise awareness on a continuous basis about people with disabilities, about their needs, possibilities, work skills, etc. But what surprised me then is that in such a high House and the highest House as the Croatian Parliament in the heat of speech instead of mentioning people with disabilities, the word of disabled people sometimes has a little negative connotation, so I think that I really should continue to work on raising awareness about people with disabilities. And it has often been mentioned that the payment of quotas, the payment of quotas in ministries that do not employ enough persons with disabilities, should be stressed here that this law, i.e. amendments and additions of laws, is going in this direction to be extended and defined precisely in that sense that persons with disabilities and during the tendering process, i.e. writing itself, written examinations or interviews, will have the conditions to be allowed, for example. a person who has motor problems of ability to access this written exam in a way that is adapted to the timing of the exams that it is not today. And I think that's exactly one of the reasons why we have a smaller number of people with disabilities in the ministries, i.e. the state administration, since we all know very well what testing looks like and how it's done. Here's a thank you, so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51266	At the presentation of State Secretary Majda Buric, we have one replica, which is a replica from representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51267	The secretary of state, something for a bonton, in the Assembly doesn't address MPs, but well, you'll learn. Administrative discharge, what administrative discharge? Have you ever seen a JOPPD pattern? Have you ever had a chance to see what a JOPPD pattern looks like? Obviously you're not. Because that's the bottom of the screen one form where the employer, the greatest effort to click the mouse is to mark in the JOPPD that for this and that employer it is mandatory to pay the quota. Because it's an administrative discharge? There's no way, so there's just a desire to obviously please employers because what, now that section in that JOPPD form won't be, what administrative discharge? Who? And on the other hand, you yourself said that it was a reporting system that very simply provides you with a report to the institution who did not pay, who was partially paid and based on this JOPPD forms are given solutions out and you go to the OIB. Obviously you want to hire more people at the office, obviously easier for the party, well, that's your way of working and working. The ministries are not meant for the state, let the state adapt itself to the ministry. They're meant for employers. And in a rule that writes exactly but nothing prevents the Bureau from going to employers and offering its services to employers, since 2014, so you must know that the Institute started work on 1.1.2015, that in 2016 the second Government came and that we are now 2 years under other leadership, that the Institute could change that that he wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51268	Thank you, counsel. Answer to his replica, State Secretary Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51269	Thank you. Here, Mr. Mrs., I believe that you have the best intentions, but what needs to be determined is that you haven't strengthened either the ZOSI or the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation at your time, even though I believe you had a good intention. Unfortunately, however, they are not strengthened at that time, what this government of Andreja Plenkovic is doing is just stronger centres for professional rehabilitation and institutions, in addition to that, it should be said Can I go on? [[Intruder Hajdash-Dončić: Please, representatives and MPs, please allow.]] So, what's amazing to me, once again, I'm going to say, that you haven't strengthened the centres for professional rehabilitation or the ZOSI itself, and you're attacking it, and besides, I think that you really need to take a realistic look at the situation and all the blames that have been inherited and that the ZOSI cannot be solved overnight, but what is evident is that the problems are very, very systematically solved and that the Institute is strengthened and that the centres themselves for professional rehabilitation of these changes and the additions of the laws are strengthened and that is the purpose and that is the main objective of course of easier employment and labour market conditions for people with disabilities. And once again, I'm going to ask, what was the 1.4.2014 and what rule was passed and what did it say? It says exactly that part that the employer is intensifying ZOSI, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51270	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. We continue to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, next on behalf of GLASA and HSU Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51271	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, so as not to accidentally make a mistake because it is human but we cannot be like this, let's say under adrenaline and accept any mistake as a deliberate mistake. But I'll say something, so let's let the people who want to. Since 2004, when we passed the first Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, we have had no luck with this system. We're not lucky not because we didn't mean it badly, but we have some opposition and certain blockades all the time. The system wasn't set up badly in 2004. And it wasn't dysfunctional until 2014, but you know well that they are from workers' salaries, so the contribution was paid somewhere around a billion and 200 million in 10 years and in the function of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people was spent somewhere around 600 million. 600 million down the country. Whose funds? Employers' funds. And nothing to anyone. That fact, that position was found by Minister Mrsic and our coalition government. Okay, we said let's try quota employment, let's, let's change some things that pay the one who hires doesn't pay the one who doesn't hire. We have possible compensation methods, i.e., substituting employment, we have a whole range of new measures but an attempt to change access. Of course, there was an unfortunate institution, or an art centre, for which the government received international EU funds. It's a craftsman's office that's being followed by obstructions. Total obstruction. I know and I can call, the former Minister of Labour and Pension System was then the head of all HZMO of her medical staff, i.e., the witches and the beginning disagreed. And she was at the inauguration of that art center was an obstruction of maximum. And don't ask today why so many items were transferred in that year, or we have unsolved ones. Well done, later that stabilized, people came to their senses, the system sort of works. Not good enough, because we only have four centers, we should have 10 already, given the neutral means. Yes, my dear mistress, I can wave my head too, that we'll miss the witches, too, we'll miss the quality people, because the assessment of the remaining work ability, it's no ordinary art. I think at this point, this law, generally unnecessary. Why do I mean it? Well done with good intentions, I respect good intentions. But we haven't cleared up what we could do with the existing law and what its final achievements are. We didn't even try. JOPPD reporting to who? Who cares if it's a mouse-clicking move? Who's got a problem with that? You have all the data, automatically ahead of you. So who's got the choice? Whoever has the information, whoever doesn't have it, who has to ask someone else to make a harder decision. So, you have it today, why do you give it up? What I miss if I go to the novel of this law, look he's just as well decorated, coded, administratively, bureaucraticly beautiful, so that I come as weak as he is beautiful, of beauty. And I'd like you to explain some of the terms. Some concepts as a reasonable adjustment, in what, how, where? The remaining work ability, the art of what? So, we're going to now, according to the proposal of this law, of people, automatically, to shorten the process of art, of their ability to work, according to which workplace? According to the imaginary workplace? General category invalidity can be determined by skill. But the capacity for professional rehabilitation and the remaining work capacity for what? Gentlemen, I've been working on it, I've been working on it, I've been involved in medical commissions, I've been a safety engineer and I've been working on it, I've been working at the shipyard, I know how it's going. The remaining work capacity must be determined by something that is suitable or that we want to professionally rehabilitate. We can't, by heart, practice someone's disability towards an imaginary workplace. Next, I'd like you to put me on the terms of what that means to be a protected workplace? That's not new. That's not new. A protected workplace stands in the law. And that remark goes equally to former Minister Mrsic, because things need to be explained, a protected workplace. Is it for that person with the disability, who we've adapted to the workplace to her disability, is it a protected workplace? Yes, it is. Whether without adjustment, we have a job that corresponds to the remaining work capacity. So it doesn't absolutely affect disability, either species, or degree, is it a protected workplace? But we have to explain it in the law. There's no absolute protection. There's no glass bell under which we'll put the worker. And the worker, i.e., a pardon employer, does not hire and priorities persons with disabilities, he employs workers. Therefore, in order for a person with disabilities to obtain the status of a worker, permanently employed or employed at a specified time, it must meet certain conditions, whether the conditions regarding professional training, all health skills, etc. And of course, that's when a person with disabilities gets hired. We can't hire a person with disabilities if we have a job that further disrupts his health. So, I'd also like the profession, the profession that deals with professional rehabilitation, to say more about this law, it's good that this law in provoking reading, so it's the best thing, because we have time to still conflict, discuss and from it through conflict of opinion, through... to create and agree on something good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As it is, offering solutions that will certainly be good, and with so many questionnaires, I don't think we're going to get the necessary consent we should have in this field. In this field, it should indeed be the agreement of all actors on the political scene. Because people with disabilities deserve it. I've given up my pain, and I'll always give up. In 2004, Tekop Nova's protection workshop opened in Pula, and it was difficult and there was 51% word and even to call in protected jobs even though that was not what it was called in 2004. It was difficult to create a climate in local self-government that they participate in funding and not only in funding in subsidies to a protective facility, but rather in providing them with jobs to make them feel strong, good and efficient so to those who make goods that go through the market not at dumped prices, not because they are persons with disabilities net of quality and good goods. And it took a long time for utility companies to start ordering protective suits, various other supplies in that facility. But thank God he lives there today and 25 people earn their bread. It's not great, it's not great, but it's better than at shopping malls and it's pretty air-conditioned and last year they were opened by the ministry's efforts to isolate the ministry and the local community of new spaces. I think it's a good example of concern for people with disabilities and we've also opened a centre in Pula, so all the preconditions for the centre's functioning have been created. I think one such non-administrative legal approach should be more humane and see how to create the necessary social climates towards them. There are good things here and there are good things in the law, I do not dispute that there is a good intention, but at this point we must as a club of GLAS and HSU be quite reserved according to this law, see where it will move on. And what I'm saying is, I think it's completely unnecessary for us to put nine members into the board of directors, I think it's unnecessary. I don't think there must be two members on the proposal of the Minister of Competent and the work of two members on the proposal of the Minister for Social Policy, can be one or why must there be three representatives in front of the Economic and Social Council? Isn't it enough to be a union representative and an employer? Why do we have to keep increasing these administrative bodies like 11 people making better decisions for us by five or seven people? The important thing is that they're professional and they're benevolent, and it doesn't matter what their number is. It can happen that two ministry representatives don't think the same way, so they're gonna get away with it. So for the best of all, I suggest you, you can do it a little bit, I don't think there was such a practice that there used to be two representatives from one ministry in the administrative bodies of institutions and funds. So, finally once again, I am sorry that this system of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people that there is not enough sensitivity for him in Croatian society, that a lot of money has been collected that did not end up where it should be. It's okay to return it to employers, but only to projects, job adaptations, to projects hiring people with disabilities, it's okay, but they have to draw really have to make projects that deserve funding because we now take everyone who doesn't pay, and now we give to those who are willing to adapt jobs and adapt them to the needs of people with disabilities. I'm sorry that in 2004, so for 13 years we haven't made a bigger step, because this indicator that we have 369 million kunas, and everyone's crying that they don't have the money to create a job, and as a member of the Immunological Institute's Immunology Committee, I know that there's a million dollars worth of equipment out there in Bezje. You know what? For the production of water for injections. So we don't produce water for injections in Croatia, and neither do ampoules. The equipment has been there since 2013. We could have had five employees, maybe there could have been one or two people with disabilities. So we need to question whether these are our final options, I think as a society we can and must give more to people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51272	Thank you very much, Mr. Sylvana Hrelja. We have four replicas on his exhibit. The first replica is from representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51273	Thank you very much. A colleague of Hrelja you know that in 2014, 2015 we founded four Institutes for Professional Rehabilitation Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. I am sorry that this has not developed enough but, obviously, that the spirit of Minister Šikić and through this law is being implemented somewhere because here in this law we see nothing that will help people with disabilities but will probably not help employers, I see no reason other than this abolishing of the JOPPD forms so that people don't have to pay for it and that they can still cheat on the state because 3100 don't pay and we simply haven't managed to get them with a JOPPD form, and now that we do, they'll probably not pay more. However, what defines me most and what you have pointed out is that we will now skip art, so I say that it is some kind of spirit of Minister Šikic in this law we will skip art and we will send people directly to professional rehabilitation without even knowing who we will rehabilitate for, how many of them we have, so someone who has residual work skills, which we will rehabilitate instead of continuing the path that Austria has, so with Austria, so with these professional rehabilitation centres are also related schools, so companies are tied up, so the employers are bound and through them are trained as an employer for certain well-known jobs. Obviously, by this law, we're jumping one step and we don't even know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51274	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51275	Let me read it wrong, but I don't believe it. I think it's the intensity of this law to speed up the process, at least that's what it says and go straight to the art. But I've set up each other's enquiries, artificially compared to what? Compared to what? Compared to what presupposed workplace? Because it was easy to determine the disability of the general type or general disability, it is relatively simple to do so, however, when we are skilled in professional rehabilitation and employment, we need to be skilled in relation to something specific where we intend that person whether it is an unemployed person with a disability who should be in the eye of the Employment Service, whether we are looking for the person who died in the work that was sent to us by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. So it may happen that they send already with the idea but we need to know that the art is going against the assumed, or the offered workplace, otherwise the processes will be blocked, we're going to artificially versus what? We can't say we're now reporting 500 people and we have 20 jobs or 20 possible solutions. I'm just asking a questionr and I think I've got it right that he wants to speed up the process, at least that's what the law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51276	Thank you. Next replica representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51277	I'll look around, I'd have a lot to say, but since I don't have time just to go back to this system of art you've set up and the obstruction you mentioned. I'm glad, I'm so glad you brought this up because when the law was passed we spoke, my colleague Mrsic said earlier we increased our salaries to the witches, we talked and warned that it wouldn't be enough that the witches didn't want to work for their salary and that we would, for the salary at the office, and that we would have a problem. That's what happened. They moved to work for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and more than 50,000 items from other systems, social care, the education system was waiting for them, and unfortunately some people died while they were waiting for the art of exercising the rights of np. On a personal disability. As for the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, they're conducting a professional rehabilitation, they're not witches. A warlock is a unique body of art, it's two, it's not the same. The Centres for Professional Rehabilitation, unfortunately by law when it was passed, were not well established as well as the institution and there were foundations of any kind, it is not true that Mrsic said that it had started from the beginning, there was a fund for professional rehabilitation that had already had some good intentions and suggestions on how to move forward. It could've been done a lot more, it didn't work out, so here I believe that by at least these changes until we've passed some whole new law, we're going to fix what we can fix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51278	Thank you, MPs, Ljubi Lukačić. The reply to the replica by Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51279	Ma esteemed colleague Lukačić, you know as well as I do that the only witches who were in a permanent working relationship and who could have prevented the center of art were HZMO witches, all the other institutions had contractual relations with the witches. Therefore, they did not skill for defenders, nor for the social, nor for health insurance. Therefore, they were the only ones who could pass. Of course he was a rebel and their boss was Ms. Sikic's later minister and that's a fact, we can't get away from it. That's all I'm talking about. And as for, of course, art is conducted by a unique body of art, but for what? For what? According to what? If I tell you again, if it's about determining general disability, yes, no problem but if it's about continuing professional rehabilitation, employment, job adaptation, etc., then we need to know the goal we're going towards, we need to know the offer we have. So, of course, you're right here, nobody's doing any outside of them this art, but I've just asked why, according to what, we have to have a orientation, we have to compare the health status of a person, the remaining work capacity to the demands of a job. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51280	Thank you. Next is the replica of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51281	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, here I have received a message from the people who are following this debate and then say that we are not at all discussing and touching the main problem of people with disabilities, which is that practically when they get hired to lose the right to a personal disability. Here's the mention of this woman, she sends me a message, mentions Miranda Mrsic where she says there are still unused funds to co-finance the employment of people with disabilities, and as a key reason why these funds remain unused, she gives that reason to abolish this personal disability and that they themselves are practically forcing such persons to remain in working incompetent because if they lose that right once, then it's a big problem. So here, maybe it's one thought that should be taken into account and see if people should go in that direction, even though they are employed, to keep that personal disability, because they also have their disability practically.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51282	Thank you, Agent Never Grmoya. The reply to the replica by Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51283	I would prefer if you had referred this replica to Mrsic, then I think we should find a measure and not offer each other but eventually find a measure between the two rights of persons with disabilities. If I can justify myself in some way, I know that we left when the person with disabilities got a job, left to receive part of the pension if they had previously had conditions for retirement, I once made that part of myself a long time ago, but I say, I am not amnesting anyone or blaming anyone. I'm sure that when new processes are introduced that there will be mistakes, but that's why we're here to change things, and I think that in this area, the main need is for continuity and upgrade policies, and not for me to be nicer and smarter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51284	Thank you. And the last replica of a representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51285	Mr. Hrelja, you have also touched the governing bodies of certain institutions in your debate, and I disagree with you here. Whether the minister proposes two, one or three, or one minister suggests two and two, it is irrelevant if the problem is resolved. Our problem is what things are solved. Of the 250,000 people, only 7000 registered on the stock market as people with disabilities. That's saying something, so there's a problem here, that's where we need to work things out, and that's where we need to focus the most. And the money collected as compensation for those who do not meet their obligation may need to be higher for those who do not because people are now calculating that they may even be paid something to be below the quota that the law requires them to do, so that institutional resolution and the number of these are not important. It's important that people understand what the problem is, it's important to sew awareness in our country about these problems and that people with disabilities can do the same quality of certain jobs as those with no disability to focus on protection jobs, that's the thing, I would like to see a little more social debate and the ministry initiate that some of the Stigmes develop that clearly still exist in Croatia, unfortunately today, we are going back to big steps and that our people don't understand at all what the government wants to suggest about the family and that these much more complex things that are even less if they don't have experience known, as only then I would say, to clarify. So that's one complex social issue that we can't just solve and if it's two or one, that's absolutely irrelevant to me right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51286	Thank you. Replica response, Agent Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51287	I can see that we agree in 805 of what you said, the only thing that is this detail, but I don't care about that detail, because the size of the administrative bodies of the institution is also a burden and financially, and even if they don't have a fee, they have some other cost, if nothing else from the system of their home jobs in some ministry, and therefore, I'm the advocate of having to rationalize both financially and financially because the waste of human potentials on some things, where a decision can make one, put all of it, I think it's unnecessary, simply unnecessary, and we can go through with 7 members of the administrative council, we don't have to have nine, but I'll still ask you one thing question. I'm okay with the board being the one making the payments, in this case it's the employers. For the second time in another, there are workers in another board of directors when they go or contribute or pay out of wages, here they go to the expense, previously there is a salary contribution, and now there is a payment due to the failure of the quota and the pay of the employer. So, of course, they need to be inside, and they need to be aware that they can adapt jobs and spend some of that money because they require the realization of the employment of people with disabilities. I don't think unions or ministries will hire them that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51288	Thank you. This ended with the replicas, as well as the presentations on behalf of the club of representatives, since colleagues Hrg and colleagues Maras agreed to replace but not identity but only to replace the order of speech, so now individually, representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51289	Thank you very much. Here, I am opening this debate with what I have essentially started in the replica and what I think is the taste of the problem today of hiring people with disabilities in Croatia, which is social awareness, the impact of those who are responsible and so are we in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, most of those who run the state, and I mean the government, of course, which is the operational executive authority, and we need to be aware that everything, every intention, every gesture, every message that we say here, or which our government, for example, suggests, or we representatives here in the Parliament, we discuss, reflects on our society. Dana, of course we are all relieved by the announcement of the new family law and the idea of Minister Murganić that the family, as defined in the opening article of the law, is the only family that makes, mother, father and children, mother with child or father with child who do not live together. So citizens are devastated by messages like this. What does that mean, if the family doesn't have children, they're not family. How many grandparents, no parents? They guard them, they raise them, they help them get on their feet, they're not family, and we need to be aware, it's not a meaningless thing. I'd like someone to get out of HDZ right now and say no, that's not my attitude. I don't think so, it'll change. It's okay. And those messages are them, it's the theme, Mrs. Love, it's really the subject, because that's what it all comes from. Of the kind of things and social values that we represent here, which the government represents all arises, including this topic. And then it may be clear to you, which is why, of the 250,000 people on the Croatian market who are not working, who are working, have reported that they have certain protection, only 3% of them report being disabled. Which is why people with disabilities say, when you talk to them, that it's awfully hard to find a job, that employers sometimes reluctantly hire people with disabilities. All of this comes from those values that we represent here. All those problems. And that's not something we should be sharing, it's fundamental human values, European values, which we should be representing here. And until that changes, something's gonna be hard to change. This is why such guffs, Mrs. Murganic, today, the proposal of this law in the initial yet stage, but it should never stand on paper at all. So you just can't give it away. I, too, ask all HDZ representatives to fence from it, as it has been fenced throughout today, the entire Croatian public. All those well-intentioned free-thinking people who realize what family is and what family is not. Now, when we get to this topic, I'm grateful to the ministry for sending me the data and getting a little bit of a head start on the issues, to see how much the companies are doing, which don't meet their obligations, given the legal assumptions. They are about 9200 in Croatia, the first year of 2015. 8500, 2nd year 2016 8720. What concerns, for example, is that in the past year, when it was possible to analyze the whole year, even 4060 does not settle this fee and does not meet the requirements of the law. It means 50%. Those who meet the requirements, companies, bonds, which meet the quota by hiring people with disabilities, by law, are out of these 8720, only 1048 last year, which means 12%. Let's ask ourselves why it is. But even those others who might have to, I'd say, make up for this fee that's scheduled if you don't meet that quota, 4000 of them don't pay anything. I'm asking myself a question, where's the state, who controls it. Which is why no one controls these people and makes them have the obligation they have, so that they have more resources to encourage these on the other hand that have protected jobs, protection jobs. That way we won't get anywhere. This is my open question here, what will the ministry do, with these 50% that neither fulfils the quota nor pays the fee. That's 50%. And then when you see the data, there's something even more vague, so in 2015 it's 152 million kuna, 2016. 188 and half don't pay. And in the end, you see that you can actually have twice as much money. So there wouldn't be 369 million dollars in the fund now. There'd be over 700 million kunas. They could be even stronger to encourage the employment of people with disabilities. I'm immediately asking the ministry, and I'm going to initiate as chairman of the board, a special thematic debate, to see who they are, which is why they're not being controlled, and that's why there's no legal obligation for those companies or institutions to have. What is also worrying is that in the public sector, the state, those who should be an example in law enforcement, bonds, public sector, 2617 taxpayers, 427 meet. 427 is at a speed estimate of 13 to 14%. And what are we talking about? We've passed laws, ministries. Is the pension system at the Ministry of Labour a quota satisfied? Here, give us the answer right now, do you, as promoters, respect the quota you have set and which you give to everyone else in Croatia. You've got to get out of here. And one more thing I want to say very clearly here. One of the major problems in this area is, the area of the problem of people with mental disorders, who are very difficult to establish in general the percentage of disability, which are waiting in the unique body of art, at 9, 10 months to assess their percentage of disability, I'm saying it firsthand, I've talked to people who are dealing with it, so someone who has disabilities takes him 10 months to determine who has a percentage at all. And on the other hand, when a person with mental disorders comes into a unique body of art, it's being examined and evaluated by a pediatrician, for example, so someone doesn't even deal with or treat a person with mental disorders at all. So how is that possible? In which way these persons can then adequately assess what is the degree, the percentage of disability, which is the assessment of functionality, etc. Every day these people have problems, otherwise the hardest thing to do is to hire a person who has an estimated disability, who is a person with mental disorders because people have unfortunately, unfortunately quite often the biggest problem of hiring such a person. And we have to do this thing to help these people and we have to do concrete things. So the ministry has to practically force and force what it has to do, if the fees are too low or too high, and we need to measure every year to see how successful we are. And most importantly, I will return to the beginning, which values as the highest institution in this country are being sent from here, which values and messages are being sent by the Croatian Government. And so once again, I am extremely unhappy that the messages from the Family Law that came out of the government today come out in the light of the day, and I hope that the prime minister and all the people who will think about it will not be too much to analyze, bring certain conclusions and fence from it and very quickly correct that error and send a clear message that this is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51290	Thank you, Agent Gordan Maras. We have three replicas on his display. The first is a replica from MP Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51291	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So when you ask me what my family is, Mr. Maras, it's my wife, my five children in a narrow sense, and I'm spreading with my grandparents, aunts and uncles. In Croatian traditional values, the family has always been the backbone of the identity of spiritual restoration and historical survival and even the development of modern Croatian society. What you are now talking about, although the subject is the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, you have referred to Minister Murganic's statement, and it is related to the Family Law that you know that during your government he suspends the Constitutional Court's decision, and he has made so many difficulties in family legal life primarily for children that he, as such, had to be made. The government had to show itself to the Constitutional Court and tell if it was going to change and supplement this law or go with the new law, which it did. Of course, one working group was formed professionally, scientificly, from different associations, different implementations to bring as much as possible a better Family Law. The family is defined as a legal concept relating to this law by determining who is considered a family member for the purpose of applying this Family Law. and family members are mothers, fathers and their children, think of the biological family and are adopted together and have been considered family members because of the effects of adoption of these adoptions, a parent who does not live with the child and other relatives by the blood of grandmothers, grandparents, aunts, uncles or in the case. A stepdaughter, a stepmom, a stepdad if they live together. The waist, so I'm saying that this has been passed for international legal and constitutional protection what you're talking about, and the profession says that the first form of family is... made by father, mother and children [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51292	Thank you. Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51293	Thank you very much. Mr. Babic, we each have our own story and family, but your family with five children, my family with two children is in the same rank as the parents' family who don't have children, that's family. The family is where they love you, who you live with, who you share fate with every day, build life, help each other, etc. There are many things that define family and cannot be defined by family in a way that the family is, for example, grandparents, children who do not have parents. How many are there? So the law must not allow itself in this way to open up a story in a way that ignores a lot of people who are not, for example, in a position to have children and does not restrict them in this way legally. That's all I'm talking about. So family is what I think is the most valuable thing we have in life, but also people without children must not be excluded from the law. You understand that the failure happened, the failure happened, you have to fence yourself from it, say it's not true, it's a mistake, it's just that I'm talking about. That's all I'm talking about. So I'm not talking about past family laws or futures, etc. or, for example, family is, and when people live in the same sex community, it's the same family, they don't have children of the same family. So don't make people of first and second order and don't touch my family. I know what my family is, you're not going to write to me now, not specifically about you, but about the country what family is. Each of us knows what's his and who's his family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51294	Thank you, Agent Maras. I say this is Parliament, but I ask everyone in principle to try as much and as much as possible to stick to the subject. We are discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. But the debate is wide. The next replica to the presentation of representatives of Gordan Maras is a replica from MP Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51295	Thank you very much. First of all it's not fair, it's not fair today when we talk about hiring people with disabilities you're turning the subject at the beginning and at the end of your debate, it's not fair, but let's be honest, it's good. As far as this number of employers is concerned, I agree with you, there should certainly be as many employers as possible who, if they haven't paid a fee to process them. And the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is doing exactly that. Those who have not paid against them will be subject to administrative procedure. It would be good, it wouldn't be bad at all what you said to organise a thematic session so we could talk more about hiring people with disabilities. However, you mentioned both the ministries and the Croatian Parliament, so public bodies that are required to employ. I don't know if you've heard of it, but I'm also in my debate and I've already told someone in the replica, so the very problem of reasonable adjustment is one of the problems that they haven't been hired by this law, and this is what we want to resolve to impose a reasonable adjustment obligation. So someone needs a little bit, I'll tell you for example, I see time running out, but here's just one example. When you and I enter the building of this High House, we stop and the door opens, then you and I enter on equal terms, and when the doors aren't like that, then you will easily open them and I will find it difficult. That's the kind of door, that's a reasonable adjustment. And many other examples of testing and all about hiring people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51296	Thank you very much for the replica. The answer to the replica, Representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51297	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lukacic, I don't think it's fair, I think this is a place where we have to open up themes to make our society better, that it's very connected to each other. I'm very familiar with the subject here, I've been talking about some problems. And trust me, I'm going to make sure that things like this don't happen in the next few years. So half or half of those who have an obligation to neither hire nor pay, so I now take it as my obligation to warn each day or every time I do, and that next year we don't have such examples. Just as I understand my obligation to expand in society values that I think are European, that they are modern, that they will help our society to be better and that it is all connected to each other. As for this particular topic, you know that, and I think we will all agree in the Croatian Parliament, that we will all try everything together to make the situation better. But let's try to create a more tolerant society, try to create a society of modern values that will allow our people to live freely without restrictions and without feeling less valuable. Unfortunately, the messages of Minister Murganic today make one part of people feel less valuable in the Republic of Croatia and that is what must be said here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51298	Thank you. And the last replica of the presentation of representatives of Gordan Maras is the replica of representative Mark Sladoliev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Maras, you have touched important topics in your debate, but there is one unsettled topic left, and this is a question of property and income censorship in people with disabilities, not only for people with disabilities but for extras for other people's care and help. So you have a situation where I don't know the man who lives in Ogulin has a disabled child, has some space that rents, these are very low prices, and he loses his right to other people's care and help. You have cases like this all over Croatia. What do you think of this subject? So I referred Minister Murganic a few days ago to the question of how many such persons are so that we can count on what that amount is in the state budget that could move on to such things, I think it's a question that we should also open in our debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51300	Here we welcome students and high school students from Split before responding to the replica. So now the answer to the line, please, sir, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51301	Not just students and students, but professors and teachers, so I wouldn't forget them, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, Mr. Sladolev, the property censorship is for me and the income censorship is something that should be applied to me as a rule in most of the things that we regulate by law, laws because it's not the same to people in Ogulin where I lived for two years, or it's been two years, I haven't slept there in two years, but I went to work every day and I know how hard it is to live there. We have now seen, unfortunately, these floods and they are not the same in Zagreb. On this side, our ministry should take account, and I hope that the proposals that are related to both income and property censorship will finally begin to arrive because there is too much injustice in Croatia which unfortunately has not been corrected for too long. And I once again use the opportunity here to get the State Secretary to answer one simple question, and that is whether the ministry proposed by this law respects the provision within this law. It would be good if the answer were yes, I'd like to be honest with you because we have to get out of here. So it would be good if the answer were to see that according to this law, a ministry that is competently law-abiding and I don't know how many people work there, probably a few hundred that has a quota prescribed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51302	I'd like to thank Agent Gordan Maras. We continue with individual debates. The next debate is from MP Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let's get back to this law. I think people with disabilities, to get away from the topic when they're being debated because it's very rare to argue, and then it's very good to stick to the subject absolutely. In preparation for this debate, I have actually consulted with the president of one of the better and more active associations of persons with disabilities in Croatia, with Mr. Gataric, president of the Association of Persons with Disabilities in Križevci, probably already a colleague of Lukačić talked about it, but it is worth repeating. I asked him how he felt about the law, how the association felt about the law and how it should be set up under this law. To get a little closer, it's about a association that employs about 46 people, which in the company it has established, which, through various programs, seems to me, 16 people with disabilities, other people work in principle or directly in helping people with disabilities or working alongside people with disabilities. So it's about an association that can say a lot and that can give us a lot of good examples when we talk about hiring and rehabilitating people with disabilities. What is important for the emphasis and what I want to make here is, in fact, on behalf of this association, says Gataric, there is no objection to the proposed amendments to the law, except by adding one small proposal in Article 19(3), where it is said about the means for integrated workshops to be provided by founders. The proposal may include local self-government where such workshops are established. Why am I saying that? Because in principle, local self-government has a very strong interest in taking care of people with disabilities and helping them. Let's face it, it's very hard to hire people with no disability, let alone people with disabilities. It's our reality, it's reality, and we need to be aware of that. And this part of the integration workshop provides one new possibility to further strengthen the employment of disabled people, to involve the whole community in the establishment of such workshops, to involve persons with disabilities and to mean, the law will enable it, to help them absolutely and maximum their employment and to actually set a good example for entrepreneurs that people with disabilities can do their job and the law is already regulated that they will also have certain benefits if they employ people with disabilities. Employment of persons with disabilities must actually be freed from all giving to the state. Short and clear. That's my personal attitude. Because I think it's much better, more valuable to get rid of giving than to help people with disabilities from budget funds, it's twice as good. Because people with disabilities in such a situation naturally become more important to themselves, more satisfied, and on the other hand they are not at the expense of society. And that's why I think there should be absolutely help involved, not only for the state but for the local self-government. They say there's been a lot of talk here about professional rehabilitation and employment, there's been a lot of talk about art. There was criticism on the proposal of this law and therefore, what I got from that association, is one of the things to note that it is a really big problem waiting for people with disabilities to get that opinion. Now it's said that in practice it's been waiting 3 months, recently it's been 5 months, this law, as far as I understand it, it's going to be a significantly shortened process. And the Association of Persons with Disabilities welcomes this reduction and should not think otherwise, let us now let some complicated things that we put on ourselves to make life impossible for people. The laws must be simple, they must be adapted to those for which they are intended and must be enforceable. In any case, I welcome in particular, so this concept and the establishment of integrated workshops, we are ready for such a programme, we may be able to be first in the Croatian state, make a good pilot project in the bang and serve as an example, therefore, and others who will go a similar way. Why did I say that local self-government should be involved in that part of the founder's role? It doesn't have to be a financial character, it can be a security of space, insurance of conditions, release of certain duties, that's the role a local self-government can play. You have a situation where the law makes you have to charge the company created by an association of people with disabilities such as the example of the Hedon Cruise Chocolatery, where the city has to use its entrepreneurship centre to actually calculate the cost of renting space to one company because the law makes him do so. If by law we decide that local self-government can be in such a founding work with that share, then we've done a double job, we've made it possible for local self-government not to do so, and we've made it possible for the company, the company, the integration workshop or any other company to provide one big help. For these reasons and everything else that is written in this law, colleague Dodig has already declared himself on behalf of our club, that we absolutely support the law and that we think that he is good we just have to implement him in practice and we have to implement him in practice because often times the laws that are passed and being good, but then they don't go further, so there's a problem and then we move on to another action when some law isn't implemented, then we go to law changes instead of implementing him. Here's me, anyway, supporting this bill and we're happy with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51304	Thank you, counsel. We have two replicas on his display. The first replica is from Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Zeljko Rainer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51305	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Hrg. Of course, I agree with the good part of what you said and I don't think there's anyone who won't support this law. However, I would refer to this regardless of the fact that my colleague Lukacic said that we rarely have a chance here to discuss the problems of professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities and in general people with disabilities. As the topic has spread significantly, I think some things have to be said after all. Say it because it was said here earlier, no one will tell me what the family is. Oh, he will. Of course he will, and the law will determine, the law we bring. Because if under the flossules, that people feel free, etc. We don't define things. So how's society gonna work? How the state works, if we don't at least determine the terms of what's what. So we can't act like it's none of our business or under the firm, again say some kind of strong liberal attitude, not define certain things, as defined by the Family Act. The provision under discussion does not at all restrict the circle of persons who enjoy the right to respect family life, in the context of neither international legal nor constitutional legal protection. So I don't see why it's a problem. Especially when it comes to another subject, a very important topic, a subject of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51306	Thank you. The answer to the replica of MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51307	Thank you very much, actually I'll just comment very briefly. Of course, the family is the foundation of society and the fact is that we in Croatian politics, especially those who see it a little more liberally, are doing everything we can to break the foundations of society. Then we'll wonder later why some things happen to us. It's a fact state, it's continuous, because today everything that's normal is showing that it's not normal anymore, everything that's not normal, it's showing that it's normal. Somehow, a man who lives in harmony with some of the standards of behavior that we've been raised for often feels stupid to himself. So that everything should be discussed, but absolutely what you have said, these topics should not be discussed when discussing an extremely sensitive population of Croatian society, persons with disabilities. They do not deserve any other topic to be imposed by taking advantage of the media space of the constituency, in order to talk about something else. When it comes to order, we will discuss and discuss it and express our views.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51308	The last replica is the replica of Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well colleague Hrg, I almost fully agree with your presentation, but I want to say that we already have in the law that... the workshop can be established individually or jointly by local regional self-government units, together with the association. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here, I think for... No problem at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said in my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, and this is my special pleasure, that Križevacka Hedona will be the first integral workshop in the Republic of Croatia, they announced and I believe it will do so. And that's proof that people with disabilities in a small environment, where it was much harder to hire people with disabilities, are still employed. And what's just before, and about that, my colleague Grmoya mentioned that it should be resolved, that people with disabilities, who are employed, and who have a personal disability, and many of them were in Hedona, who lived on a personal disability, I mean, that it was realized that it might be necessary to fix it in a certain way, because many people with disabilities, including their families, were unfortunately using this right and out of fear that they couldn't keep their jobs they didn't want to hire. However, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act is currently in the consultation phase, and it provides for people with disabilities, when employed, to remain a personal disability and not to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51310	Thank you very much. Replica response, Agent Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51311	Thank you very much. Comrade Lukačić, here we often meet at these activities and events and that we really think, practically the same thing. I'm very glad that you've just confirmed what you've already said about Cruise Hedon, because I'm kind of looking at these people from the Association of Persons with Disabilities. The people who have volunteers, who have established an association, who have joined that association, have often made it so often, come with such good entrepreneurial ideas, with so much energy, with the ferocity that we can be us who may not have someone damaged and we are not officially disabled, we can in some way be a little envious to them and it just comes but when they come up with an idea, when they get some little incentive on the side, it's amazing how much energy is released in realising it, they never give up. And that's why it's very important that you said yourself that it can already be now, so I've mentioned to me what's mentioned in this part of Article 19(3), if it's already standing, absolutely, it might be good to just be highlighted in this kind of founding part that local self-government is not excluded, that it's easier for associations or some other activities so that these people get an even bigger extra incentive and that they can do even more. And here's what we're going to do is we're going to do what we promised our association that we're going to do everything in our power, and I believe that the ministry is going to be there, and it's going to be a very important factor in making this integral workshop as soon as possible, the spaces are already being prepared, and they're being arranged, and it's going to be there soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51312	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate is from Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51313	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So during today's debate, it was suggested that all clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament support this law, of course, with certain adjustments that are and if possible by the competent ministry and here present state secretaries that I welcome with my associates, especially from Ms. Benci's Office of Arts. It's a good thing they're here together. Namely, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation adopted in 2013 experienced its changes and changes, so it was evident that some things were not working, so 2013, 2014, 2015. The fact is also that precisely because of these things is HZZ, and because of these indiscretions that were related to the law, a statement has been made that is very indicative of me. Therefore, only the experience of HZZ in the application of this Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities points to this complexity and one long-term in the process of including in the procedures of professional rehabilitation of unemployed persons from the very records of institutions. The Institute further states that according to the current experience of applying the biggest difficulty in conducting the professional rehabilitation process in the fact that in 2016 no disabled persons from the register of the regional office in Zagreb, nor the other regional office was included in the virtual workshop and work centre as the most common programs of professional rehabilitation. And that's what we should talk about today. And Mr. Hrg said it very well. He made some of his observations, and he suggests that employers themselves should be added to any contribution when it comes to hiring people with disabilities. And in addition to this, I can say that from the data provided by the Ministry of Demography, today the family, youth and social policy is the number of 507,000 people with disabilities, so it is a large number of people with disabilities who are the state, the competent ministry should try to introduce themselves into the labour market and because of this social exclusion of the disabled. Under the applicable law, the right to professional rehabilitation is acquired by persons with disabilities who have been identified by the competent authority as having ceased their ability to work. Analoglytically, this person undergoes the very skillful process, and only by the decision of the experts is the rehabilitation of the assessment at the centre for professional rehabilitation. Why does this matter? Because it slows down the inclusion of persons with disabilities on the labour market, but it also burdens the body of art needlessly, since we know how many items they currently have. The Centre for Rehabilitation and HZZ shall receive relevant information necessary for the purpose of preparing a person with disabilities for employment. The task of the centre is to train persons with disabilities to work systematically and in line with labour market needs, but also to provide assistance, professional assistance, advisory to all employers when they are employed. Now I am going to say something about this current law, which means that people with disabilities can be employed in the open labour market or under special conditions under the obligation of the employer to ensure a reasonable adjustment of the job we have been listening to here today, which is a reasonable adjustment of the workplace, to introduce quota employment rates under the obligation of the employer both in the public and in the private sector. It is prescribed that the funds are paid from the basis of the cash compensation used for the purpose of payment and incentives and projects themselves, and the applicable law itself, the conditions for obtaining the status of the protection workshop on which the secretary of state is concerned, both in its replica and in its opening statement, are very well stated where at least 51% of people with disabilities are employed in relation to the total number of employees, and exclusively in the workplaces. Now, due to the amendment of the amendments to this law, some improvements are proposed, so the improvements I have seen both in the public debate and in the public consultation have mostly been made to associations of persons with disabilities and the Ombudsman of persons with disabilities. There were certain questions that were logical and I see that you and my replica answered me because it is deeply concerned by the Association of Persons with Disabilities. And my colleague Mrsic was saying today that disabled associations should be preceded by this, in fact, being an example of quota employment, but he also seemed to have said that assistants who serve as help to disabled people should be excluded from it and we said that sublegal acts would actually get rid of what I think is very good and in this public consultation itself are visible that, that it was the most interested associations of persons with disabilities. So this proposed law, not to repeat myself because of my colleague Lukacic speaking on behalf of the club, is speeding up and facilitating the inclusion of unemployed persons with disabilities in the professional rehabilitation process in such a way that they are directly directed to the centres for professional rehabilitation and that they are given direct guidance and based on the results of rehabilitation... Advisers, for example, to HZZ, to actually get all the information related to the preparation of disabled persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The circle of orderrs is expanding, which is also good, a service of professional rehabilitation, to simplify and speed up the procedure for the exercise of founding rights and responsibilities. And this is also good and Mr. Hrg was saying that you could include local self-government units that I have absolutely no objections to that part, but in this case now because of the flexibility and efficiency of business instead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia being the Ministry of Labour and Pension Systems. The notion of reasonable adjustment is specified which is definitely good, and there has been a lot of discussion today and some provisions with the employment quota for people with disabilities are specified, and it is good that for new employers there is one reasonable adjustment of 24 months which I think is very good. The abolition of the JOPPD pattern obligations was today in the debate that it was not good and that part should not be abolished but I think it is good and if the ministry has made a certain analysis not to administer additionally I think it is not as bad as some other things related to compliance with the Labour Protection Act, which is very important again because it is in, not to be in collegiate with the Professional Rehabilitation Act. Of course, according to people with disabilities, and I said that this number is almost half a million of my personal opinion is that this number is far less and that we are going to deal with this government with the restricted ministries as well as with people with disabilities dealing with this number. Isolated decent funding from the state budget, maybe not by those most needed but by those who have, for example, taken advantage of, say, certain holes in the law that are not good. If that number were revised, what was said in the public space could also increase the assistance for other people's care, other people's assistance and him, personal disabilityes, perhaps there could also be talk about the Law on Inclusive Adjectives. So you're thinking about helping people really get the ones that need it. From my conversation with persons with disabilities they are for it and they are willing to take action to do, let's say that's the revision of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51314	Thank you very much for representing Ante Babic for the debate. At his hearing, we have no replicas, so I now ask Secretary of State Majda Buric for the final word on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51315	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a short, first of all, I want to thank everyone for the precise and constructive and thorough discussion. What's very good is that we continue all of this through another reading, so first of all, I want to say that we keep in mind everything that's said, in the second reading, we move on. What we want and on what these amendments and amendments to the law are based on is exactly the attitude and opinion of the profession, of course consulting, as I said in the opening speech with associations dealing with persons with disabilities, namely Mrs. Attorney General etc.. So I also believe in constructive debate and in second reading. What I think is particularly important here is the few definitions that I have presented in the opening presentation, but it is not a waste to repeat them since you asked for it yourself. It is a term, i.e. a syntagma of reasonable adaptation, and it is once again worth mentioning that it is a reasonable adjustment, that we further specify it in this law and further define it in the light of the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities. And the simplest thing is to explain it in a way that it is, when we talk about a reasonable adjustment really is the same conditions, both for persons with disabilities and for everyone else, and that's what Mrs. Lukacic said a little while ago very vividly. I believe that a reasonable adjustment will greatly facilitate the procedure and employment and everything else. The workplace, therefore, is the workplace that involves the simplest operations. In addition, I believe that it is necessary to once again highlight and underline and that quota employment is what applies to three categories, it is employment related to 3% of employees, employment of people with disabilities in the size of 3% of employees. The second category is the payment of a fee of 30% of the lowest prescribed salary. And the third category is the replacement way I talked about it. And all of this together can also be balanced, i.e. to mix all of these three categories, and all of this is considered to be the fulfillment of the quota. Therefore, all three categories, if they are accepted and executed, are considered to be a quota fulfillment. Not to be too long, I really think that we've turned very, very hard, or exhausted these amendments and the addition of the law, in any case I repeat again, we're taking note of all your comments and I'll see you when I read these amendments and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51316	Thank you very much to the secretary of state, Mrs. Majdi Buric. There are no replicas on its exhibit, and I am also concluding a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, First Reading, P.Z. No. 170. We will vote when the terms are obtained and I will set a break by 15 hours when we continue with the Final Proposal of the Law on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the area of posting of workers, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 130. Thank you. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51317	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 170. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 94 votes in favour of, 8 abstentions, 7 votes against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51318	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. Before giving the proposer an opportunity to give an additional explanation, he asks for the word Mr. Pernar, who probably wants to tell Mr. Babic or Mr. Hrelja something. Here you go. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? He is here with us at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Mrs Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51320	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Another nice hello to everyone. Honorable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary MPs. So before us is the draft final proposal of the Law on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the area of posting of workers. What I would like to say at first is that the implementation of the EU directive and what should be said at the beginning is that, in relation to the text of the draft law which was in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, there is no difference in the final proposal of the law, and especially since the text of the draft law has been considered and discussed at the meetings of the working bodies in the Croatian Parliament has not been made with any comments or suggestions on the solutions proposed by this final draft of the law. This draft final draft law partially fulfils the obligation to adopt in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia Directive 2014/67 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 implementing Directive 96/71 EC on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services and amending Regulation 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the internal market information system or the harmonisation with the Chapter of the Directive relating to cross-border implementation of administrative sanctions and or fines. In this way, the necessary legal framework and common rules for mutual cooperation and mutual assistance of Member States in the cross-border implementation of decisions on administrative fines in the field of posting of workers charged for infringements of guaranteed rights of posted workers or for non-compliance with administrative requirements and control measures shall be established. It should also be said that cross-border posting of workers is an integral part of the freedom to provide services and the directive in question is part of a European legal framework aimed at protecting the rights of posted workers. Service providers shall, during the duration of the reference, comply with certain rules in the conditions concerning the achievement of a business creation but also with certain working conditions of the workers referred to in the rules of the host country. In order to extend the EU, the cross-border element and the high mobility of this category of workers, the control and control measures of compliance with the rules were not effective and the abuses of freedom of establishment and non-compliance with guaranteed level of labour rights were frequent. On the basis of the Directive in question, the EU Member States adopted certain specific administrative requirements and control measures as from 18 June 2016, such as the obligation to submit a previous statement of reference, the obligation to keep work contracts and to record working hours at the place of temporary work, the appointment of a contact person in the host country, the obligation to translate labour contracts, the pay lists, the proof of the actual salary paid, etc. which will be able to enable, all of this will be able to enable better supervision and reduction of abuses with effective administrative assistance and cooperation from all relevant bodies. These frameworks also address the issue of mutual recognition of cross-border administrative sanctions or fines imposed by a foreign service provider in the country in which it provided services and the provision of their payment in the country of establishment. For now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51321	Thank you very much, Mrs. Buric. Would the committee reporter like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And Mr Tomislav Panenic of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists reported. He's gone. Mr. Silvano Hrelja of the GLAS and HSU Club, he's got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51322	Mr. Vice President, honorary secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I won't be long, maybe a minute, two. So really, really, about this proposal for a law on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the area of posting of workers we discussed briefly, but we said this was a very correct law. This law as short as it has its own term, that's what I asked for the much more serious law that we previously discussed because I think it is necessary because whenever new concepts are introduced in the legislation, it should be explained what the writer wanted to say. It's very precise this bill, and I consulted on a break with the secretary of state because it made a point to me that in Article 13 of this law, the body charging the fine in our country for a violation that was committed for example. In Austria, he has the right to request further clarification from their competent authorities, for example by order of some of their inspections. And keep an eye on the maximum time limit for the institution to be manifested is up to 2 days at most. I found that a little inconceivable because we usually had 7, 8 15 days to show the other side. Obviously, we too will have to adapt in our legislation to modern communication techniques and communicate not only with the recommended mail but also with e-mails and other ways of looking for the additional information we need for such decisions. It is also said clearly and unequivocally when the fine will not be charged if it is less than 350 euros. Similarly, if the penalty which the foreign institution is to say is in charge of supervision is disproportionate to costs, that is, higher costs than the value of the fine itself, then it will also not be charged. But I think it's a whole new way of acting that for our company's employee who has been sent to work abroad unless he's adhered to by what rules don't adhere to the rules in that country, the penalty is charged in the country of origin, in the country of establishment, that is, the income from that penalty belongs to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to our workers. Which means that if our labour inspector were to punish a foreign worker, of course from a signatory country, that is, to which this directive applies, then either the German or Austrian competent authorities should carry out that sentence. This is nice to me that if you enter into the law you will see the flow of documents and the jurisdiction of institutions and I think there is definitely nothing unknown here, but encouraged by this way of work, then I always ask one additional question, I always want to expand things, and I am expanding things and asking you and myself, if that is so, why is it that for our citizens who receive a pension from Germany, Germany collects taxes and are resident in us and here they have secured health insurance just because they are retired? Does this mean that as a state we were not active enough, if we were late, their right is if we did not then they will, but would it be smarter given everything we provide, to our citizens who have earned their pension in Germany, that taxes are then paid in Croatia, the tax system has changed, today more is very little difference than taxes in Croatia and Germany, is still but not so much, but some other rights are being achieved in the Republic of Croatia. I'm just pulling the thinking parallels, nothing more, I didn't intend to intervene, nothing in this law, but I think this law deserves unanimous support from all MPs in the Croatian Parliament and that there should be no problem here, the GLAS club and HSU will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51323	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelja, you know that Italian pensioners pay taxes here, and they actually pay double taxes, so for two pensions twice taxes. So, no system is likely to be fair, I only use this for a moment, just to explain, no case is fair because of that only pension we should pay for all the donations. Okay. You'll answer me later, okay? Buddy Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51324	Thank you very much. I really didn't understand now, the Italian pensioner to pay taxes here, probably a Croatian citizen with an Italian pension. That an Italian pensioner pays taxes here, okay. [[I didn't hear.]] Dear Mr. Hrelja, when you spoke about the payment of fines or the disproportionate cost of the payment of fines, it occurred to me, I know we had a problem, it seems to me, last year here at the payment of parking tickets to foreign citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Most of it is done by the city's services, and in fact, these charges have been paid by something similar to factoring society, they have been granted to law firms, like Austria and Germany, and for penalties of 15, 20 or 30 euros, EU citizens have received fines of up to 150, 200 and 300 euros. And the fact that they had to pay for it. So, and that actual penalty of 15 or 20 euros for parking, they had to pay for it in their home country, because we actually allowed those claims for payment of penalties to be charged to their factoring society, law firms and all those who could pay that money. The Republic of Croatia only got the part, or unit of local self-government, that part they were actually looking for, and this was left in the country they were looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51325	Thank you, too. Replication response, Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51326	Yes, but it is freedom and there is freedom in this law, this is the task of the state bodies that decide that if the disproportionate penalty is, or the higher costs, then it will not be charged. The state body that's in charge of implementing this can decide otherwise, I won't deal with it, and I'll give it to someone else that I won't have, then I won't have any expenses. Allow me, I have time to answer the vice president as well. So maybe it was before March this year. Since March of this year, according to the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration, two pensions are collected and if they cross 3,800 kuna together, to everything that is over, taxes are paid at a unique rate of tax. So I must once again commend the IRS as I did at the 3rd month that finally after some good 8 years of my efforts and not just mine, that part has been solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51327	I thank Mr. Hrelja for his reply, interesting. Mr. Marko Simic in front of HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51328	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are facing the Final Act on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the area of posting of workers by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the parliamentary procedure as early as June this year we had the first reading of this law. In fact, during the first reading, the MPs did not make any more important and significant remarks and proposals for a change, so this legislative proposal was therefore referred to by the competent ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the second reading by the same proposal of the final law. They discussed this issue and the relevant parliamentary committees in both the first and second readings, the unanimous decisions of the committees in charge of this bill have been passed, and I will not overly comment on this final legislative proposal in my debate, and I will only list some important moments related to this final draft of the law. It is important to say that freedom in provision, services of free movement of workers and freedom of business are based on the principle of internal markets in the EU and are incorporated in the contract in the functioning of the EU. Elimination of barriers to the free provision of services based on fair competition, while ensuring an adequate level of protection of workers' rights, is a more sustainable goal for the EU. In fact, this rests and some reason for the adoption of such a law, as we can state that one of the main elements and reasons for adopting such a law is to comply with the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, and that is to say, firstly, Directive 71 of '96. the year which is one of the fundamental real acts of the EU, relating to the protection of the rights of posted workers. I remind you that it has been transferred to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, more by the Foreigners Act in Articles 66 to 89. In practice, many difficulties have occurred in controlling and overseeing the application of the provision of this Directive, so in 2014 another directive, which we call the IMI in a colloquial language, which introduces the obligation of cooperation and mutual assistance through the use of the internal market information system, has been reduced to the prescribed and uniform forms. It is important to say that this bill establishes the necessary legal framework, i.e. common rules for mutual cooperation and mutual assistance between Member States in the cross-border implementation of decisions, in administrative cash fines or other administrative sanctions imposed on the provider of a business establishment in the EU Member State or in the European Economic Area for infringements of guaranteed rights of posted workers or in breach of other rules, administrative requirements or control measures during the reference period to be respected by the service provider in accordance with the provisions of these two Directives and which are transposed into national legislation. This bill regulates the content, rules of procedure and principles of mutual cooperation and assistance. The scope and scope and scope and legal cooperation shall also be regulated. The scope of the application from which it is excluded is also determined, i.e. the penalties from which the application of this law is excluded, it concerns fines and other sanctions on the basis of decisions made in criminal, criminal, civil and commercial matters. The competent authorities for international cooperation shall also determine the requirements and minimum content of the requests in the communication of the competent authorities. The law also lays down the grounds for refusal, and the reasons for the termination of the enforcement procedure, determines also that the costs of implementation of the request will be paid into the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and determines the jurisdiction in disputes relating to the initiation of the claim, where disputes can only be initiated in the requesting State. While the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, in the jurisdiction of the courts in the Republic of Croatia, shall be subject to the conduct of the procedure for the implementation and execution of the fine. It is important to note that the principle of mutual assistance, trust and recognition of the requirement is the basis for the cooperation of the competent authorities of the Member States when they comply with these requirements. This established single system of cooperation will allow conditions for more effective punishment, abuse and bypassing of existing rules in the field of posting workers, better respect for them, thus achieving higher, more uniform and comparable level of protection of the rights of posted workers in the EU, and indirectly ensure fairer conditions for a fair competition on the internal market. It is important to say that this legislative proposal, once again, has been discussed by all relevant committees, that on all committees this legislative proposal has been adopted unanimously, as well as after the first reading here in the Croatian Parliament, so the HDZ Representatives Club will support this final proposal for a law on cross-border implementation of monetary penalty decisions in the area of posting of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51329	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This law is supported by the majority of clubs, i.e. almost all clubs in the debate and, of course, when we talk about the transposition of European standards of the directives, that is, interpolation in Croatian legislation, there are no objections here. But when we talk about this topic, we cannot mention the problems that we have in Croatia and unfortunately one of the disadvantages of Croatia's entry into the EU is that our people, of course, are fortunate for those who can possibly earn something more from other businesses, but the lack, of course, for these same people, because they leave their country and for Croatia, which unfortunately leaves without quality people, is the departure of people from Croatia, i.e. in recent years, and I would say in the last year over hundreds of thousands who have left the Republic of Croatia. One of the ways in which you might be able to do something about it, and of course it adds up to this law, because it's about problems, when our companies send workers to other countries is a particular economy, competitive exporters, and our government should take care of it. We have lost, I say in the last year over 100,000 people who have left Croatia, most often there are countries like Ireland, such as Germany, and we should talk more about it and we should focus more on it. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. The assessment is that all countries have more or less abolished the ban on the arrival of workers from the Republic of Croatia, the assessment is that in the next 2 years. Losing 2,000 more people. So that's something that needs to be a priority for this government. That's a little bit of a talk, unfortunately, and the messages we're hearing, sometimes they're not the best. Here we have seen in recent days there has been a controversy in public, a gentleman who told people from Split that their doors are wide open, let them go. It's bad messages, we have to give people a job here. If they're already working in other countries, they'll be offering these jobs to our companies. This will be made possible through a more competitive economy and through the more capable exporters we must not focus on what is unfortunately a problem in Croatia now mostly on tourism, it has now become mantra as though tourism itself will save us. See how many exports Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech countries are comparable to Croatia, Slovenia, and see how many billion euros of exports Croatia has. So we have to focus on this because, unfortunately, in the end, even under this law, there won't be a lot of cases, because unfortunately, very few of our companies are going to be able to work in foreign countries, so they won't find themselves in some of the situations covered by this law. So there's one topic that we'll all agree on, but the problems are somewhere else and we need to start dealing with them urgently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51331	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51332	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, you said in your debate that it was good for Croatia to pass this law and to align ourselves with the European Directive, of course we from the HSS and I personally support it because it is certainly a tool that will regulate this market in which both Croatia and the European countries will communicate with each other in terms of protection and their businessmen, but above all workers and how they will regulate these jobs. Lately, a lot of the labour market has improved especially in sending our meditative workers to European countries, where our workers are appreciated. And what has often been a dilemma that our companies in that part are not competitive enough because of the duplication of tax obligations and because our economy has been detimised in a certain way, so it must be found on the EU market and other countries in competition with some EU member states that have better regulated and protected their economy. On the other hand, there is a problem with such employers because part of the workers who learn jobs learns language goes and works for foreign companies, there we are in the problem that we already have a shortage of labour and that it happens in Croatia too that we have to import labour which is certainly not good. And we need to find a way to primarily help our economy, our entrepreneurs, and on the other hand to enable our workers to have adequate incomes and to remain faithful to both their companies and the Republic of Croatia, and to help those who come to work in the Republic of Croatia to provide quality conditions for this kind of good host to give a good impression of Croatia and thus help those entrepreneurs. Especially now, we have a harvest of agricultural cultures where there is not enough labour and we need to find ways to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51333	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51334	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic, we are in trouble and when our people work outside, unfortunately they work for foreign companies. It would be good if we worked for our exporters, it's in very rare cases. And now that you mention it, I must say that I am also disappointed with yesterday's event of a business list called "Day of Big Plans" where I saw no plans of Mr. Plenkovic's government very much I would say a flet debate of his about 30 minutes where he didn't say anything about any reform specifically mentioned. So we are not focused on this or we do not have an idea unfortunately in the Croatian government to help exporters, to help people who are hiring and who could possibly start getting some jobs outside the Republic of Croatia, beyond our borders on the EU market. Unfortunately, the biggest problem is that our people leave those who can't or our companies who can't get a job, our people leave and then work on foreign markets for other companies. While this psychology and that logic in our government is changing, I am convinced that we will continue to lose our workforce and what you have said to me is the only scenario at the end and the solution that will happen over the year, the two is that we will have to look in large quantities for some things in Croatia people who are willing to do because now some of our companies are building, you can find a job this moment if you are a good master because these people are no longer in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51335	Madam Secretary of State Majda Buric asked for the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51336	Final proposal of the Law on cross-border implementation of the Decision on fines in the field of posting of workers, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 130. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on cross-border implementation of the Decision on fines in the field of posting of workers. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous with 111 votes for the law on cross-border implementation of the Decision on fines in the area of posting of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51337	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. Before giving the proposer an opportunity to give an additional explanation, he asks for the word Mr. Pernar, who probably wants to tell Mr. Babic or Mr. Hrelja something. Here you go. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? He is here with us at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Mrs Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51339	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Another nice hello to everyone. Honorable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary MPs. So before us is the draft final proposal of the Law on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the area of posting of workers. What I would like to say at first is that the implementation of the EU directive and what should be said at the beginning is that, in relation to the text of the draft law which was in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, there is no difference in the final proposal of the law, and especially since the text of the draft law has been considered and discussed at the meetings of the working bodies in the Croatian Parliament has not been made with any comments or suggestions on the solutions proposed by this final draft of the law. This draft final draft law partially fulfils the obligation to adopt in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia Directive 2014/67 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 implementing Directive 96/71 EC on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services and amending Regulation 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the internal market information system or the harmonisation with the Chapter of the Directive relating to cross-border implementation of administrative sanctions and or fines. In this way, the necessary legal framework and common rules for mutual cooperation and mutual assistance of Member States in the cross-border implementation of decisions on administrative fines in the field of posting of workers charged for infringements of guaranteed rights of posted workers or for non-compliance with administrative requirements and control measures shall be established. It should also be said that cross-border posting of workers is an integral part of the freedom to provide services and the directive in question is part of a European legal framework aimed at protecting the rights of posted workers. Service providers shall, during the duration of the reference, comply with certain rules in the conditions concerning the achievement of a business creation but also with certain working conditions of the workers referred to in the rules of the host country. In order to extend the EU, the cross-border element and the high mobility of this category of workers, the control and control measures of compliance with the rules were not effective and the abuses of freedom of establishment and non-compliance with guaranteed level of labour rights were frequent. On the basis of the Directive in question, the EU Member States adopted certain specific administrative requirements and control measures as from 18 June 2016, such as the obligation to submit a previous statement of reference, the obligation to keep work contracts and to record working hours at the place of temporary work, the appointment of a contact person in the host country, the obligation to translate labour contracts, the pay lists, the proof of the actual salary paid, etc. which will be able to enable, all of this will be able to enable better supervision and reduction of abuses with effective administrative assistance and cooperation from all relevant bodies. These frameworks also address the issue of mutual recognition of cross-border administrative sanctions or fines imposed by a foreign service provider in the country in which it provided services and the provision of their payment in the country of establishment. For now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51340	Thank you very much, Mrs. Buric. Would the committee reporter like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And Mr Tomislav Panenic of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists reported. He's gone. Mr. Silvano Hrelja of the GLAS and HSU Club, he's got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51341	Mr. Vice President, honorary secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I won't be long, maybe a minute, two. So really, really, about this proposal for a law on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the area of posting of workers we discussed briefly, but we said this was a very correct law. This law as short as it has its own term, that's what I asked for the much more serious law that we previously discussed because I think it is necessary because whenever new concepts are introduced in the legislation, it should be explained what the writer wanted to say. It's very precise this bill, and I consulted on a break with the secretary of state because it made a point to me that in Article 13 of this law, the body charging the fine in our country for a violation that was committed for example. In Austria, he has the right to request further clarification from their competent authorities, for example by order of some of their inspections. And keep an eye on the maximum time limit for the institution to be manifested is up to 2 days at most. I found that a little inconceivable because we usually had 7, 8 15 days to show the other side. Obviously, we too will have to adapt in our legislation to modern communication techniques and communicate not only with the recommended mail but also with e-mails and other ways of looking for the additional information we need for such decisions. It is also said clearly and unequivocally when the fine will not be charged if it is less than 350 euros. Similarly, if the penalty which the foreign institution is to say is in charge of supervision is disproportionate to costs, that is, higher costs than the value of the fine itself, then it will also not be charged. But I think it's a whole new way of acting that for our company's employee who has been sent to work abroad unless he's adhered to by what rules don't adhere to the rules in that country, the penalty is charged in the country of origin, in the country of establishment, that is, the income from that penalty belongs to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to our workers. Which means that if our labour inspector were to punish a foreign worker, of course from a signatory country, that is, to which this directive applies, then either the German or Austrian competent authorities should carry out that sentence. This is nice to me that if you enter into the law you will see the flow of documents and the jurisdiction of institutions and I think there is definitely nothing unknown here, but encouraged by this way of work, then I always ask one additional question, I always want to expand things, and I am expanding things and asking you and myself, if that is so, why is it that for our citizens who receive a pension from Germany, Germany collects taxes and are resident in us and here they have secured health insurance just because they are retired? Does this mean that as a state we were not active enough, if we were late, their right is if we did not then they will, but would it be smarter given everything we provide, to our citizens who have earned their pension in Germany, that taxes are then paid in Croatia, the tax system has changed, today more is very little difference than taxes in Croatia and Germany, is still but not so much, but some other rights are being achieved in the Republic of Croatia. I'm just pulling the thinking parallels, nothing more, I didn't intend to intervene, nothing in this law, but I think this law deserves unanimous support from all MPs in the Croatian Parliament and that there should be no problem here, the GLAS club and HSU will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51342	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelja, you know that Italian pensioners pay taxes here, and they actually pay double taxes, so for two pensions twice taxes. So, no system is likely to be fair, I only use this for a moment, just to explain, no case is fair because of that only pension we should pay for all the donations. Okay. You'll answer me later, okay? Buddy Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51343	Thank you very much. I really didn't understand now, the Italian pensioner to pay taxes here, probably a Croatian citizen with an Italian pension. That an Italian pensioner pays taxes here, okay. [[I didn't hear.]] Dear Mr. Hrelja, when you spoke about the payment of fines or the disproportionate cost of the payment of fines, it occurred to me, I know we had a problem, it seems to me, last year here at the payment of parking tickets to foreign citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Most of it is done by the city's services, and in fact, these charges have been paid by something similar to factoring society, they have been granted to law firms, like Austria and Germany, and for penalties of 15, 20 or 30 euros, EU citizens have received fines of up to 150, 200 and 300 euros. And the fact that they had to pay for it. So, and that actual penalty of 15 or 20 euros for parking, they had to pay for it in their home country, because we actually allowed those claims for payment of penalties to be charged to their factoring society, law firms and all those who could pay that money. The Republic of Croatia only got the part, or unit of local self-government, that part they were actually looking for, and this was left in the country they were looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51344	Thank you, too. Replication response, Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51345	Yes, but it is freedom and there is freedom in this law, this is the task of the state bodies that decide that if the disproportionate penalty is, or the higher costs, then it will not be charged. The state body that's in charge of implementing this can decide otherwise, I won't deal with it, and I'll give it to someone else that I won't have, then I won't have any expenses. Allow me, I have time to answer the vice president as well. So maybe it was before March this year. Since March of this year, according to the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration, two pensions are collected and if they cross 3,800 kuna together, to everything that is over, taxes are paid at a unique rate of tax. So I must once again commend the IRS as I did at the 3rd month that finally after some good 8 years of my efforts and not just mine, that part has been solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51346	I thank Mr. Hrelja for his reply, interesting. Mr. Marko Simic in front of HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51347	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are facing the Final Act on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the area of posting of workers by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the parliamentary procedure as early as June this year we had the first reading of this law. In fact, during the first reading, the MPs did not make any more important and significant remarks and proposals for a change, so this legislative proposal was therefore referred to by the competent ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the second reading by the same proposal of the final law. They discussed this issue and the relevant parliamentary committees in both the first and second readings, the unanimous decisions of the committees in charge of this bill have been passed, and I will not overly comment on this final legislative proposal in my debate, and I will only list some important moments related to this final draft of the law. It is important to say that freedom in provision, services of free movement of workers and freedom of business are based on the principle of internal markets in the EU and are incorporated in the contract in the functioning of the EU. Elimination of barriers to the free provision of services based on fair competition, while ensuring an adequate level of protection of workers' rights, is a more sustainable goal for the EU. In fact, this rests and some reason for the adoption of such a law, as we can state that one of the main elements and reasons for adopting such a law is to comply with the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, and that is to say, firstly, Directive 71 of '96. the year which is one of the fundamental real acts of the EU, relating to the protection of the rights of posted workers. I remind you that it has been transferred to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, more by the Foreigners Act in Articles 66 to 89. In practice, many difficulties have occurred in controlling and overseeing the application of the provision of this Directive, so in 2014 another directive, which we call the IMI in a colloquial language, which introduces the obligation of cooperation and mutual assistance through the use of the internal market information system, has been reduced to the prescribed and uniform forms. It is important to say that this bill establishes the necessary legal framework, i.e. common rules for mutual cooperation and mutual assistance between Member States in the cross-border implementation of decisions, in administrative cash fines or other administrative sanctions imposed on the provider of a business establishment in the EU Member State or in the European Economic Area for infringements of guaranteed rights of posted workers or in breach of other rules, administrative requirements or control measures during the reference period to be respected by the service provider in accordance with the provisions of these two Directives and which are transposed into national legislation. This bill regulates the content, rules of procedure and principles of mutual cooperation and assistance. The scope and scope and scope and legal cooperation shall also be regulated. The scope of the application from which it is excluded is also determined, i.e. the penalties from which the application of this law is excluded, it concerns fines and other sanctions on the basis of decisions made in criminal, criminal, civil and commercial matters. The competent authorities for international cooperation shall also determine the requirements and minimum content of the requests in the communication of the competent authorities. The law also lays down the grounds for refusal, and the reasons for the termination of the enforcement procedure, determines also that the costs of implementation of the request will be paid into the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and determines the jurisdiction in disputes relating to the initiation of the claim, where disputes can only be initiated in the requesting State. While the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, in the jurisdiction of the courts in the Republic of Croatia, shall be subject to the conduct of the procedure for the implementation and execution of the fine. It is important to note that the principle of mutual assistance, trust and recognition of the requirement is the basis for the cooperation of the competent authorities of the Member States when they comply with these requirements. This established single system of cooperation will allow conditions for more effective punishment, abuse and bypassing of existing rules in the field of posting workers, better respect for them, thus achieving higher, more uniform and comparable level of protection of the rights of posted workers in the EU, and indirectly ensure fairer conditions for a fair competition on the internal market. It is important to say that this legislative proposal, once again, has been discussed by all relevant committees, that on all committees this legislative proposal has been adopted unanimously, as well as after the first reading here in the Croatian Parliament, so the HDZ Representatives Club will support this final proposal for a law on cross-border implementation of monetary penalty decisions in the area of posting of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51348	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This law is supported by the majority of clubs, i.e. almost all clubs in the debate and, of course, when we talk about the transposition of European standards of the directives, that is, interpolation in Croatian legislation, there are no objections here. But when we talk about this topic, we cannot mention the problems that we have in Croatia and unfortunately one of the disadvantages of Croatia's entry into the EU is that our people, of course, are fortunate for those who can possibly earn something more from other businesses, but the lack, of course, for these same people, because they leave their country and for Croatia, which unfortunately leaves without quality people, is the departure of people from Croatia, i.e. in recent years, and I would say in the last year over hundreds of thousands who have left the Republic of Croatia. One of the ways in which you might be able to do something about it, and of course it adds up to this law, because it's about problems, when our companies send workers to other countries is a particular economy, competitive exporters, and our government should take care of it. We have lost, I say in the last year over 100,000 people who have left Croatia, most often there are countries like Ireland, such as Germany, and we should talk more about it and we should focus more on it. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. The assessment is that all countries have more or less abolished the ban on the arrival of workers from the Republic of Croatia, the assessment is that in the next 2 years. Losing 2,000 more people. So that's something that needs to be a priority for this government. That's a little bit of a talk, unfortunately, and the messages we're hearing, sometimes they're not the best. Here we have seen in recent days there has been a controversy in public, a gentleman who told people from Split that their doors are wide open, let them go. It's bad messages, we have to give people a job here. If they're already working in other countries, they'll be offering these jobs to our companies. This will be made possible through a more competitive economy and through the more capable exporters we must not focus on what is unfortunately a problem in Croatia now mostly on tourism, it has now become mantra as though tourism itself will save us. See how many exports Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech countries are comparable to Croatia, Slovenia, and see how many billion euros of exports Croatia has. So we have to focus on this because, unfortunately, in the end, even under this law, there won't be a lot of cases, because unfortunately, very few of our companies are going to be able to work in foreign countries, so they won't find themselves in some of the situations covered by this law. So there's one topic that we'll all agree on, but the problems are somewhere else and we need to start dealing with them urgently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51350	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51351	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, you said in your debate that it was good for Croatia to pass this law and to align ourselves with the European Directive, of course we from the HSS and I personally support it because it is certainly a tool that will regulate this market in which both Croatia and the European countries will communicate with each other in terms of protection and their businessmen, but above all workers and how they will regulate these jobs. Lately, a lot of the labour market has improved especially in sending our meditative workers to European countries, where our workers are appreciated. And what has often been a dilemma that our companies in that part are not competitive enough because of the duplication of tax obligations and because our economy has been detimised in a certain way, so it must be found on the EU market and other countries in competition with some EU member states that have better regulated and protected their economy. On the other hand, there is a problem with such employers because part of the workers who learn jobs learns language goes and works for foreign companies, there we are in the problem that we already have a shortage of labour and that it happens in Croatia too that we have to import labour which is certainly not good. And we need to find a way to primarily help our economy, our entrepreneurs, and on the other hand to enable our workers to have adequate incomes and to remain faithful to both their companies and the Republic of Croatia, and to help those who come to work in the Republic of Croatia to provide quality conditions for this kind of good host to give a good impression of Croatia and thus help those entrepreneurs. Especially now, we have a harvest of agricultural cultures where there is not enough labour and we need to find ways to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51352	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51353	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic, we are in trouble and when our people work outside, unfortunately they work for foreign companies. It would be good if we worked for our exporters, it's in very rare cases. And now that you mention it, I must say that I am also disappointed with yesterday's event of a business list called "Day of Big Plans" where I saw no plans of Mr. Plenkovic's government very much I would say a flet debate of his about 30 minutes where he didn't say anything about any reform specifically mentioned. So we are not focused on this or we do not have an idea unfortunately in the Croatian government to help exporters, to help people who are hiring and who could possibly start getting some jobs outside the Republic of Croatia, beyond our borders on the EU market. Unfortunately, the biggest problem is that our people leave those who can't or our companies who can't get a job, our people leave and then work on foreign markets for other companies. While this psychology and that logic in our government is changing, I am convinced that we will continue to lose our workforce and what you have said to me is the only scenario at the end and the solution that will happen over the year, the two is that we will have to look in large quantities for some things in Croatia people who are willing to do because now some of our companies are building, you can find a job this moment if you are a good master because these people are no longer in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51354	Madam Secretary of State Majda Buric asked for the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-28-0.u51355	Final proposal of the Law on cross-border implementation of the Decision on fines in the field of posting of workers, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 130. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on cross-border implementation of the Decision on fines in the field of posting of workers. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous with 111 votes for the law on cross-border implementation of the Decision on fines in the area of posting of workers.
