ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25289	I would like to request a break on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA to discuss the application of the European Commission to the EU Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and the latest initiative of the Franak Association.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25290	Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25291	Dear President, I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for new information that will shed a new light on the situation around Agrokor and yesterday's move by Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25292	Representative Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25293	... Vice President. Also on behalf of the SDP club, I am looking for a break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25294	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25295	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I demand a ten-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25296	If there are no other interested parties, I'm setting a ten-minute break. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Four clubs signed up for a break. The first club is the Living Wall and the SNAGA, on their behalf will be represented by Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25298	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, The European Commission has reported to the EU Court of Justice for inaction with Minister Zdravko Maric. Minister Zdravko Maric had to launch a long-standing initiative in his ministry to prepare the Law on Housing Consumer Credit and the law was due to be passed at the latest on 21 March 2016. Until today's law has not been passed, it has been prepared but we have not yet debated it and therefore the European Commission has reported to the EU Court of Justice for this reason, and the EU Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia is likely to remove the sentence. But it is not only that, but because the law does not have it, our citizens are in a discriminatory position with regard to other EU citizens who can raise residential consumer credit on much more favourable terms than the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can. It's one thing, another thing. We have not yet solved some of the problems that we can solve and which we have to solve, and therefore, FRANAK has referred questions to HDZ, MOST and SDP as the most relevant factors in this House and these issues are the following. The first question is whether these parties will prepare, i.e. support, a law which addresses the problem of the initial fixed interest margins in all loans in which these margins are not agreed. I remind you that both HDZ and MOST and SDP made promises at the end of 2015 that the problem will be resolved because it is legally founded and there are no obstacles to resolving it. That promise has not yet been fulfilled by the government and we see the government now and the climate and I don't know when it will be settled. The second question that the FRANAK Association has raised to these three parties is whether it will solve the problem of foreign cooperatives that illegally negotiated loans in the Republic of Croatia because they did not have a license to negotiate these loans. The third question is whether these three parties will prepare or support a law that will allow Croatian citizens to receive their overpaid amounts of interest from banks on the basis of collective court rulings, together with tight dues. Answers to the questions of the FRANAK Association are expected by 16 May 2017 at the latest. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, you must all answer these questions. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that everyone has the right to submit representations and to get a response to these performances from those who are important factors in the Republic of Croatia and the parties certainly are. The FRANAK Association will also inform the public about the parties' answers to these questions. Those who do not answer these questions will be deemed to answer with no and those who do not answer those questions will be considered not to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The public will be informed about that. FRANAK will not support anyone in these next local elections but the FRANAK Association will inform the public unless someone answers the questions as the FRANAK Association expects in accordance with law and justice. FRANAK has 30,000 members and protects the rights of 200 thousand families that are burdened with illegal and unfair contractual provisions on changing interest rates. Thus, FRANAK will forward its membership bases to 30 thousand parties, as they have answered the questions of the FRANAK Association and will also inform the public of that. Thank you. I'm sorry, I wanted to say one more thing, the latest knowledge we have today, the entry fees, so the entry fees for the processing of loans that are illegal in the Republic of Germany have recently been illegal in the Republic of Serbia, because there was the first judgment there which was ordered that the entry fees for the processing of loans should not be negotiated because these are unfair contractual provisions. I hope the RH is on that trail and we'll be going that way soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25299	Thank you. The next club that requested a break is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. In their name will be the representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25300	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my colleague Alexic, I can answer all these questions at once, and we've been talking and we support all three initiatives of the FRANAK Association. And now one piece of information that, I would say, will shake up this country's political system, show that the institutions we talk about so much, which we want to say we're keeping, to keep stability in the Republic, don't work at all. So Prime Minister Plenkovic was aware of the information we came up with a few days ago, and we asked among other things for Minister Maric to leave, means that he doesn't have any information because of political responsibility, but this is information that shows Minister Maric wasn't doing his job. He came from Agrokor to Minister of Finance and in a year and a half since he was Minister of Finance, tax supervision has not entered Agrokor d.d., meaning a company worth 50 billion kuna concert while at the same time 3 kuna surpluses are being terrorized, so our caterers, people who are trying to earn something. So in a year and a half tax supervision did not enter Agrokor at all, made a deep tax supervision, analyzed VAT, profits and everything else, and perhaps even worse situation and defeated by all of us and the Croatian state means since 2007 tax supervision has never entered Agrokor d.d. So a 50 billion kuna concert. What institutions we're talking about, what state we're talking about, is this the Republic of Croatia that they fought for. There are defenders here and here and here at MOST our Miro Bulj and here's Fred Matic, the other people. Is that Croatia they fought for? Croatia, which is the owner's feed in which the Tax Administration does not want to enter, means Agrokor d.d. And the finance minister knows that, doesn't give any warrant, and then the prime minister who is familiar with it protects Minister Maric, replaces three ministers who are doing their job. He's talking about some kind of collegiation. What kind of collegiation are we talking about here? What kind of collegiation can be discussed? We as MPs and ministers respond to the people and to this state and should protect the institutions of this state, should protect the legality. The prime minister should protect his legality, and he has decided to protect the minister, so during a year and a half, tax oversight has not entered Agrokor d.d. In addition, I will remind you, Minister Maric has said there are no phenomenal formats that would indicate some extraordinary situation, situations that are unusual, or that they go into the sphere of alarming action. And we have the biggest financial crisis in the history of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the IRS refused to provide information on the extent of Agrokor's tax debt, and now we know why. So they didn't know what tax debt was likely, because they didn't enter Agrokor d.d. And the prime minister decided to protect the boss, decided to protect the meaning of the finance minister, decided to replace three ministers who are doing their job and he talks about some kind of collegiation. So why the government vote? We are responsible to the people, we are responsible to this state, we are responsible to the institutions, and our ministers will be very happy to leave the ministries when 76 hands are here for the shift of both Presidents of the Parliament and those ministers. We do not want to keep the state in some stalemate position, but surely we will not allow that without a new majority and without new ministers, the prime minister is jeopardising the stability of the Republic of Croatia by protecting those who have produced this affair, who have not done their job. While I repeat for three extra kunas in the register, our people are being terrorized. This shows how these institutions in the Republic of Croatia did their job. I know we're in the way, but we're gonna be in the way, and we're gonna fight for the citizens. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25301	I'd like to ask the MPs. The SDP advocates' club also called for a break. On behalf of them will speak representative Goran Maras Gordan Maras, I apologize. [[Invader Maras: Gordan]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Croatian public, Croatian citizens must know one fact that is clear to all but the appearance of Prime Minister Plenkovic, which is that at this time Croatia does not have a parliamentary majority. Mr Plenkovic, instead of showing 76 votes to representatives in the Croatian Parliament, is acting in a way unworthy of the prime minister. Speak I'll show you, tomorrow you'll see, we'll have safe, and basically it's gone. Whether it reminds you of the situation from 6, 7 months ago when Karamarko also spoke we have a majority, tomorrow we will show it to you and at the end of that most were gone. So we call here on Mr Plenkovic's responsibility to show the majority he has in the Croatian Parliament or to step down and resign. Unless it is responsible, we call on the President of the Croatian Parliament to call for a debate on Minister of Finance Zdravko Marić as soon as possible to show that HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic do not have a majority in the Republic of Croatia and that they are not illegal ministers who are there, but are illegal. As prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, he does not have a majority in the Croatian Parliament and this is a very clear situation that we must resolve as soon as possible. I'm glad that the MOST gentlemen finally saw what we pointed out a few months ago, that all of this was done for one company, because of a narrow circle of people reaching into the 1990s. These people have managed Croatia since the time of privatisation, i.e. they have managed Croatia since the time of privatisation. Only in two terms did the SDP government have certain control and could not do what they wanted. This is what the MOST's representative said in the last year and a half as if the CEO of Agrokora had moved to work as CEO in the government of Agrokora. So Zdravko Maric de facto remained CEO of Agrokora only changed his office. She was no longer in Drazen Square, but in Katančić. And unfortunately he didn't work the way he was supposed to work, which is to put public interest ahead of the interest of a narrow circle of people. And that's why Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament is your responsibility to show the Prime Minister when he doesn't want to show himself because he can't, there's no majority, to show us as parliamentary representatives that HDZ doesn't have a majority in this House and that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic doesn't have a majority, to stop this matchmaking that he started yesterday, I have, I don't, I'll show you, to stop this breaking people. A typical model of HDZ behavior over the past 25 years. Now let's gather, gather whoever we can, buy whoever we can to show that we have most. We here in the Croatian Parliament can show that Croatian citizens have the majority and that Croatian citizens manage the Republic through this Assembly, not matchmakers, creators of the illusion, and essentially those who behave in the same way as the one through which they came to the head of HDZ. When I look at Plenkovic, I feel like I'm listening to Karamark, it's just a different look, the thesis, the arguments, the behaviors are the same, in fact I'd expand it a little further, it looks like a cross between Sanader and Karamark. He thinks he's as irreplaceable as Sanader, and he's also trading Karamarko matches. Let us not allow that, and President of the Croatian Parliament, once again, call on you, call on the point of the agenda for Zdravko Marić immediately, if it takes an hour to show that HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic do not have a majority in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25303	The HDZ advocates' club also called for a break on their behalf will be addressed by MP Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25304	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll just briefly look back on my colleagues' debate. If this is a crucial reason why MOST didn't support resolution and recalling the finance minister, then I'd say, the hills were shaking and the mouse was born. Namely, the IRS is an autonomous state institution operating under the law and must be deprived of any minister's political will. If I don't know it and I'm interested in where you got your colleague Grumoja, when, where the IRS is overseeing it. That should say, where did you get this information, but if it's true that for a year and a half days there was no tax control in Agrokor, I've been asking all the ministers since 2007, how did you name it because I don't know, where was the tax supervision and then in those ten years? Where were the former ministers in that section, where was Minister Linic, where was he here, a colleague of Lalovac, when you speak about it, and colleague Dalic, colleague Suker? Therefore, whether he was or wasn't us at HDZ we don't know or are we interested in that. It is the work of state institutions that are competent for this, it must not be tax oversight to go to certain companies that correspond to a particular political party and then tax oversight to refer where not persons who did not support a particular political option. So that's what I'm going to do about it and I'm going to end it. But much more serious is what the resolved Minister of the Interior has done today. In this morning's failure to respect the ruling of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the resolved interior minister claims that Croatia is in a serious political crisis, the people should react immediately. Dear friends, it's a blow to the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Calling the people on the street to solve certain problems in the functioning of the government. That is why there are institutions in the Republic of Croatia, Croatia is a democratic state, for this there is a Croatian government, therefore there is a Croatian Parliament. What do we want? We are calling for events in Macedonia here in Croatia because of a minister who has lost the confidence of his prime minister. And it is not true that the minister was resolved when the Croatian Parliament voted not to trust him, but by the basis of the Constitution, the minister was resolved when the prime minister, or prime minister, expressed his mistrust and when he resolved him and we have nothing to discuss here. We will only discuss when Prime Minister Maras does not worry that it will come at a very soon time, will have a majority here and propose a new minister, then we will discuss the new Minister of the Interior. And until then, the job will be carried out by the State Secretary, to whom the Prime Minister has given authority to carry out the affairs of the minister in the MUP. The question arises, has calling the people on the street the minister passed the authority? As a result, the call for a constitutional crisis and a blow to the Republic of Croatia required other bodies to deal with the exact same statement by Minister Orepic. This is a democratic state, thank God there is an institution, a legal institution in the Republic of Croatia. The Parliament functions, the government functions, the Constitutional Court functions, the judiciary functions, and that is where the political crisis is solved, not by calling the people on the street. I think, Mr. President, that you, as the president of the Most, should immediately rule out your resolved minister from the Most and fence yourself from his statements. It is a minimum of what you are to be president of the Parliament, the president of the most important institutions in Croatia should do. And HDZ will not deal with pre-election purposes in political persecution. Political persecution cannot be a pre-election agenda for any political party. It must be a permanent business of not political parties, not of the President of the Parliament, not of the Members of the Parliament, it must be exclusively the work of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, the judicial institutions and the institutions of exile. That's why we went to the election in the 1990s, Mr. President, to get our hands off the paws and the police and the judiciary. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...aware and I urge you to as a serious politician immediately That's how you react. [[Subject Petrov: Zastavnik Bačić timed out.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u25305	A few information before we begin the session. Next week we start working on Tuesday, 2.5. In the debate there are laws for which the Government, Executive Act, Law on HRT, Archive Act, has given its opinion. The debate on the recall of the finance minister will be on Wednesday 3.5. I would also ask if it is intended to request the impeachment of President-in-Office of the Parliament to be signed so that that item can be placed on the agenda. I will remind you once again, we are the parliamentary democracy of the Parliament giving confidence to the government and not to the Government of the Parliament. Today's item of the agenda is: - Final bill on the restriction of tobacco and related products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 102; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr Milan Kujundzic Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37305	Dear Mr. President, MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you and thank you all for the earlier discussions you had and where we are actually both here in the Parliament and the bodies that discussed the bill reached an agreement. And it is unfortunately that smoking in any form is harmful and that it should also be done in a legal sense to expose as few people as possible to smoking, not only to the active but also to the passive and to encourage as few young people as possible to resort to smoking habits. In this sense, after the first reading, we actually only have a minimal one change, and then I will read and ask you to adopt the law today for the reason that the law should have been adopted more effectively and according to the EU Commission's policy, there is a certain risk that Croatia will have sanctions to do so. A quiet agreement was reached somewhere if we passed the law by May 20th that we would avoid sanctions. So, once again thanks for the unity in supporting the law and the differences that arised in relation to the first-reading bill are, a ban on smoking on a space less than 20 metres from entering the educational institution building modelled by the current ban on smoking in front of health institutions and as a proposal from SDP representative Mr Maras. Other changes, in the supervisory section, inspection supervision will be carried out by inspectors for the field of electricity and thermal engineering, in addition to sanitary, health, educational, market, tourist inspectors, as well as labour inspectors and authorised customs officers. I hope that in a brief debate, we will very quickly adopt this law all with one goal and that is to protect both active and passive smokers and bring Croatia into line with EU standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37306	Replic by agent Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37307	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I've answered the line because I'd like you to explain a part of these changes to us. Of course, everyone who thinks agrees that smoking is one of the worst human habits. We have seen data that explain the laws that are figures, how many people in Croatia smoke, which is why there are major health problems, how much damage it brings to the health system. However, in your bill of law, you opted for a very restrictive provision concerning electronic cigarettes. This is not an obligation to the EU Directive and recent research published in world-renowned magazines as well as in conducting research in some European countries' funds has shown that from now on, electronic cigarettes are a method that is effective in quitting smoking. Therefore, the ultimate goal of this law is to reduce the number of smokers and ensure a healthier and better quality of life. In Croatia and all parliamentary representatives received these letters, so I ask them through this replica, 200 thousand are users of electronic cigarettes who believe that these restrictive provisions actually do harm in trying to stop Croatian smokers from smoking and to turn to a healthier side of life. So why have you decided on such a restrictive provision related to an electronic cigarette and is it true that in such a restrictive provision a crucial role has been played by a tobacco lobby that is afraid to reduce its income in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37308	Replication response, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37309	Thank you very much for representing Jovanovic. I think it will be so much easier to explain because my colleague Jovanovic and the doctor and the scientist know well that there are actually no serious studies that have shown that the withdrawal of smoking electronic forms has proved effective. And to refer only to a possible minor form and to suffer other damages that are caused by electronic forms from toxins itself through habits in gaining addiction is indeed minor. And I think it's incomparably more useful to ban than that minor, never proven great benefit from the electronic form of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37310	Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The MOST Club first reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be the representative of Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37311	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will tell you on behalf of the Health Committee what our position was, and that is that at our session we discussed the final bill on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products. At our opening session, the proposing representative pointed out that the final draft law contains some differences compared to the proposal we had a month earlier, which is that he accepted the proposal related to Article 25. The draft law thus added an entry prohibiting smoking in a space less than 20 metres from the entrance by an educational institution proposed by a colleague Maras. In addition to certain nomotechnical amendments, paragraph 9 and the date until which the producers, importers of bonds to the Ministry shall also submit to the Ministry studies, various summary or report specified in the transitional provisions. In the discussion, members of the board disagreed with the requirements of the Associations of Personal Firearms Users, meaning electronic cigarettes as well as the Croatian Employers' Association. As they pointed out, there is no reliable and verified evidence that electronic cigarettes are an effective and healthy way of quitting smoking. Very often we have a situation that smokers inside closed rooms smoke and electronic cigarettes, and after leaving closed rooms they come out. And there are many other reasons that are listed at the session. Moreover, the board members believe that although electronic cigarettes are less harmful than smoking tobacco products, they do not lead to the popularity of non-smoking, given the data on the prevalence of smoking in our population and the diseases that cause it must not be negligible. As pointed out, the impact of the promotion of tobacco and related products should be particularly protected by young people who during adulthood seek patterns and patterns of behaviour and shape their life habits. Although they are not directly promoted by subtle commercials by connecting cigarettes or smoking with a kind of pleasure or desirable situation, messages are sent that are unconsciously encouraged and encourage smoking. Some members of the Committee concerning the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products were even more restrictive legal solutions, believing that smoking in all closed rooms should be prohibited for the benefit and health of the population. We haven't put that in this program yet, in this law. And we eventually concluded most votes and proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products by the parent board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37312	The HDZ representative's club has applied for participation in the debate. In their name will speak Agent Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37313	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that no one should be convinced today that smoking is harmful, that smoking is scientifically documented by leading preventative cause of mortality and premature death, that Croatia belongs to those countries that are at the bottom of the scale or at the top of whatever third of adults you want to smoke, unlike some countries that we like to compare where they smoke between 9 and 11% of adults. It seems to me that no one should be convinced today that smoking is not only causing lung cancer, but rather causing a whole series of other heart attack diseases, ischaemic stroke, mouth cancer, throat, esophageal, bladder, etc. etc. And that former smokers live significantly longer than smokers somewhere about 10 years longer than those who haven't smoked at all. In the press, you can all read so much that the cigarette contains about 4,000 different compounds, of which 400 are approximately toxic, and 43 are carcinogenic, so they cause cancer. Hence, smoking cigarettes is undoubtedly harmful. They are not only harmful because of tar, which is the main cause of harmfulness, but also because of nicotine content. Nicotine acts directly on the blood vessels, tightens the blood vessels. For example, in patients who have any accumulations on the coronary blood vessels of the heart, let's say they'll tighten up, they'll get an angine pectoris attack or get a heart attack due to smoking, it tightens the veins of the retina, thereby damageing vision, it accelerates bone demineralisation, and there's osteoporosis. The death of smokers is, therefore, between 30% and 80% higher than non-smoking. And I don't think anyone should be convinced of that anymore. What we have not achieved in Croatia, however, and what many developed countries have achieved is that smoking becomes socially unacceptable behavior. And in many countries, smoking is so viewed, so it's like I don't know who's spitin' here right now on the floor, it's kind of like being seen in a closed room in society starting to smoke. This is unacceptable behavior in many countries, and I think we should all work together to make it so for our health reasons. Namely, the smoker does not only harm himself, he damages all those around him in the environment because they breathe, of course, less, but they breathe in everything that breathes and the smoker himself. I see that, or that a very intense lobbyist campaign for electric cigarettes has started, I will not say on purpose whether electronics sounds this much more sophisticated, for electric cigarettes, we would all get from different individuals and associations of papers that claim that it is something else entirely wrong, that it is entirely wrong to put it together with tobacco products etc., etc. So let's get some things straight first. So it's absolutely certain that electric cigarettes are less harmful than those tobacco cigarettes, there's no doubt about it, but that they are harmful. In fact, American Food and other administrations have declared themselves responsible for electric cigarettes and other tobacco products precisely because they held that these products should be closely monitored. In the 12th month of last year Search and General, and this actually corresponds to the US Health Minister's statement in which he said that the placing of taste in e-cigarettes is actually the main reason for young people to start using them, that the aerosol coming out of e-cigarette is not harmless and that the use of e-cigarette is most closely linked to the use of other tobacco products among youth. As my esteemed colleague Strenja-Linić said earlier, most often it happens that adult smokers who smoke for years and then go on as an e-cigarette smoke for a while then in closed areas where smoking is forbidden to smoke e-cigarette then go outside and continue to smoke regular cigarettes again. It's a very interesting fact that now goes on not only with us with this big lobbyist e-cigarette campaign, but with us these producers are small and I don't know where they get the number of 200 thousand allegedly people using e-cigarettes, where there's no such number, no one's taken any research with it in connection. Maybe it's 500 grand, maybe it's 10 grand or 5 grand, so the number of 200 grand I'm afraid what the people say is sucked out of a small finger because this is how it looks impressive. But the fact is that it's now being run in the U.S. a similar campaign, and it's interesting that lobbyists pay for companies that produce cigarettes and other tobacco products. lobbyists who need to convince that e-cigarettes are not only harmful, but that they are useful in rehab. When we talk about science and scientific data then just scientific data clearly says there's no evidence that e-cigarettes help out in rehab. In fact, the American Society for Pulmonary Diseases has demanded a ban on e-cigarettes by claiming it helps expand smoking. Whether they help back smoking or not, one study in 2015 says 58.8% of those who used e-cigarettes smoke simultaneously and vice versa. Therefore, this is in line with what was said. And what are e-cigarettes made of? Some contain nicotine, nicotine from tobacco, of course, and most often propylene glycol with flavors, colors, and other chemicals. Even that small amount of nicotine, as I said, has its own effects, primarily on the blood vessels. Nicotine causes addiction, we all know, there are nicotine receptors, therefore it does not reduce addiction but continues to support addiction. We know from scientific research that nicotine damages the fetus, that it causes damage to the development of the fetus and the lasting effects on the development of the brain and lungs of newborns, lower birth weight, premature births, may be one of the causes of sudden infant mortality, etc., etc. In adolescents, nicotine also has negative effects on brain development, cognitive and behavioral impairment, including disturbances and potential for concentration. Different types of e-cigarettes also contain various substances. Some of us don't even know how to act. Aerosol from e-cigarette has a very high content of formaldehyde which is carcinogenic. Acetaldehid, a butter-flavored diacetyl that attracts children and young people to use e-cigarettes, and then probably according to this information that I told them to cross over to the right cigarettes. In any case, I've paid a little more attention to e-cigarettes just inciting one huge lobbyist campaign that was present, each of us has been given a little bit more than 10 at least memos about how e-cigarettes should be separated from this law, how they are something else, as they are, I say useful for rehab, although I repeat there's absolutely no evidence of that. In fact, here last year, when we talk about the latest research, we can't just throw ourselves around with stories about the latest research and 2016 the most prominent, perhaps, one of the most prominent magazines in the American Medical Association has done a major examination, one has been published, one has been published a major survey in Pediatrics magazine, once again once again a very prominent magazine on children's diseases where it has been proven that teenagers who haven't smoked cigarettes, but have smoked e-cigarettes 6 times more often start smoking real cigarettes than those who have never tasted e-cigarettes. And that's why, because of this huge lobbying campaign I've devoted a little more time to e-cigarettes because it seems to me that as far as smoking cigarettes is concerned, it's all clear. But it's smoking regular cigarettes is also the best proof that unfortunately knowing that something is harmful doesn't mean simultaneously that people won't do it. Because there's probably not a single man in us today who doesn't know that smoking cigarettes is harmful and yet a third of the adults smoke. So obviously the knowledge itself is not enough, obviously the actions that have been carried out over the last 15 years on several occasions they usually lasted for some time and then there was no more funds so for some time there was peace and then they were having another time, etc., also not enough. Obviously you should actually approach it in a similar way that some other countries have joined, most countries and I will now say it on my own behalf and not on behalf of my club, the club will of course support this law. I have advocated, and I continue to advocate a complete ban on smoking in all closed spaces regardless of how they claim to have such or such air-cleaning devices, which then to save electricity usually shut down. And I'm in favour of banning smoking in all closed spaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37314	Thank you. Representative Branimir Bunjac, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Reiner, you have very detailedly analyzed electronic cigarettes as a doctor and the consequences they have on human health. You said people's veins are tightening and please answer the question of how do they tighten the veins of people who sleep on the floor every day in Importane and in the parks in Zagreb? You said you could get osteoporosis, please tell me how pensioners who can't buy milk and eat bread and jam every day how to fight osteoporosis? Tell me, how come people who don't have electricity can even think about electric cigarettes? Tell us, you've been talking about carcinogenic influence, does it have any bearing on people who are suffering from blockages due to the execution? You've been talking about young people, whether young....../The Intruder President: Representative Bunjac, please remain focused on the debate. Do young people have health problems when they can't pay for school lunch? As a doctor, I believe you could do one analysis of this, but until today, you've never asked for a word, as well as your HDZ colleagues. Maybe you could explain some law to them, figure it out, introduce it. It's nice that you're so worried about these electronic cigarettes, but here's maybe an inspiration for another time to expand this debate a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37316	Replication response, Agent Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37317	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Bunjac, of course, you used this opportunity for your promotional speech, the pre-election that had nothing to do with today's subject as always. We're used to it from you and the Living Wall, but today we're discussing something that's serious. You're smiling. I know that maybe it's irrelevant to you, maybe it's not at all an excessive problem for you that a third of the adults smoke and die of lung cancer, etc. But I assure you that's the problem. It's a very big, public, health problem, and such demagogue acts may give you a voice or two more in the local elections, but that's not why we're sitting here. We sit here to use our citizens in the best possible way, and that's what we'll do if we stick to the rules. And keeping the rules and talking about what we're talking about right now. When we're going to talk about another subject, you can ultimately suggest the same set of laws. You didn't suggest that you improve the lives of the people you've always stood for, but a simple demagogy as always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37318	Representative Marko Vučetic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37319	Dear counterpart Reiner, it was quite true that the more serious the subject is, that the discussions are not like that or the replicas. In this presentation of yours, I would stress this social aspect of the problem we are discussing. Because like you said the very knowledge that smoking is harmful comes from an area that's immutable and it's health care. This causes many diseases. And we saw that it didn't affect the reduction of the trend or the reality of smoking because it's obviously what's not a biological organism, and it's called a social organism or society stronger. Socialization through cigarettes is obviously stronger than consciousness itself and the realization that smoking causes damage. So I am now interested in how we can achieve this dialogue or way that, besides smoking in the area of socially acceptable, it becomes socially unacceptable, that this social organism develops a platform from which we will condemn smoking as one harmful habit, not only harmful in health terms, but harmful in both the phenomenon, aesthetic, social and any other way. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37320	Replication response, Agent Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37321	Thank you very much. Well, you guys are absolutely right, and when we look at the picture of the world and the frequency of smoking, then we see that the frequency of smoking is much higher in those countries where there is poverty, where there is deprivation, where there is unemployment, where there is actually a poor social situation. And then we get to one paradox, that people who are actually poor spend their last money on cigarettes. Because if, because it's expensive. If you count on someone who is a serious smoker not knowing two cartons of cigarettes a day, so times 30 days calculate how much money it is, and how much money that person could have, say, give their children more food, for example. However, it is precisely this environment of social acceptance, or unacceptableness. As unfortunately in some areas alcohol consumption is acceptable and excessive. So, not for some kind of social purpose in moderation, but excessively. And that's not considered unacceptable. I think the whole society has to act on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have to go through restrictive and stimulating methods. Therefore, restrictive in terms of smoking bans in all closed spaces, as well as increasing the price of cigarettes, i.e. by increasing excise duties. Not because we can stop someone who's been smoking for 30 years to stop smoking, he'll always find money for it. But we'll stop that children of 12 or 14 years of age.../Invader president: thank you. ...who don't have allowance don't start smoking. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37322	Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37323	Thank you, Mr. President. Academic Reiner, I almost 99 percent agree with what you've been saying. However, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that we may have gone too far with a restrictive attitude towards electronic cigarettes in this legislative proposal for the simple reason why the EU does not ask us to do so. So, the aim of this law is, the EU directive aims to reduce the number of smokers, reduce the damage caused by smoking. We heard today that more than 9,000 people in Croatia are dying because of the diseases resulting from smoking. These people need to be helped to quit smoking, and that's the problem. Therefore, there is no effective medical remedy that would help them stop smoking and that is successful. There were a number of methods. And then this electronic cigarette showed up. In Great Britain, that tea was also registered as a means of relief from smoking. Therefore, there is no dilemma that there are beneficial effects of electronic cigarettes. Here I ask you, colleague Reiner, what would happen if we in Croatia now transferred all our smokers to an electronic cigarette? Do you think there'd be less lung cancer? I think it would be much less, incomparably less. And that's why I, so I'm the absolute opponent of smoking. I'll do everything possible to reduce the number of smokers. And if you know in medicine is a well-known program... This is exactly the program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am convinced that citizens should be allowed to get available information, not restrictively prevent them from smoking less through an electronic cigarette and reducing health consequences. And the fact that this is the way to moving towards smoking cigarettes isn't right. 99% of e-cigarette users are ex-smokers, so not some new one that starts to enjoy nicotine afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37324	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37325	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jovanovic. I'm glad that 99% of you agree with me, this 1% is about what you last said, but I was quoting scientific articles, you didn't quote any data. These are data published this year and last year that speak differently than you say. I will repeat again, of course, that they are less harmful and of course hypothetically looking at all of them to switch to electronic cigarettes in order to be less lung cancer, but it will not happen and it shows exactly this scientific data that this is not happening, that smokers still smoke only in those environments where they are legally prohibited, then they smoke an electric cigarette, then they go into an environment where they don't still smoke their cigarettes. And it hasn't reduced the number of cigarettes they smoke, nor has it reduced the number of smokers. And there's no evidence anywhere that the introduction of an electric cigarette reduced the number of smokers and that story is over for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37326	The proposer's representative wishes to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37327	I actually share and respect Dr Jovanovic's concern for a group of people who are smokers and whose electronic cigarettes can help with the withdrawal. However, there is really nothing here in the law that prevents them. So there's nothing here that prevents them, and those people who get used to it aren't going to run into closed spaces where they're going to hurt others too, so they're going to be electronically "deviated". So in that group that, as far as it's going to go through with it or not, which is the subject of the debate, no one forbids to benefit them. So I don't think we should call too much on parole by saying that benefit to that group in relation to all the other damage that will be done if we let everyone smoke those forms, I think we understand ourselves in that part of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37328	A SDP representative club has applied for a hearing. In their name will be the representative of Sinish Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37329	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Secretary, assistant, more advisors and advisors. I would like to thank you for your hospitality and presentation on this proposal for a law on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products. And I will present to you my colleagues and colleagues the position of the SDP Club on this bill, so I would also like to cut short what has been said and the exposure from the chairman of the Health Committee and previous speakers regarding all the measures to combat smoking as a very bad thing for an individual of poor habits that harm health, which for the family, which is for groups of people and all of us who live in public places, especially in closed spaces. And finally, as a nation, we have this big problem called natality, and the birth rate is the premature mortality of our fellow citizens, which unfortunately, every day is less and less, and smoking when 34% of the population smokes and causes a huge number of premature deaths, which is something we need to understand and as a national priority in their repression. One of the tools for countering is the very rigorous implementation of the UN Convention on the control of tobacco use adopted and ratified in 2008 in the Republic of Croatia, which contains a mass of measures that we as a member of the UN and as a member of the World Health Organisation are obliged to implement in national legislation, and on top of that, as a member of the EU, all related to the implementation of the European Directives, and that is why we are here today. In fact, the European Directive requires a much more rigorous issue of putting tobacco, tobacco and related products on the market as regards the appearance of packaging, on the way it is sold, etc. and the whole directive has been transposed or transposed with this bill we are harmonised with the EU Directive and this SDP club supports it. However, in this segment he was also talking about, the question is further let's say that we are larger Catholics than the Pope, where we add in there provisions regarding e-cigarettes where we de facto equate e-cigarettes with tobacco and tobacco related products. And in this way we have one disproportionate between what is a desire, which is the interest of the nation, which is the interest of society, government, the Ministry of Health, the minister about reducing mortality from the use of tobacco and related products. So they mentioned and here's the academic Rainer mentioned lobbyists, lobbyists all around us, there's all kinds of them. Someone is working in the interest of capital and it is something that is as a company that is constitutionally defined as part of Western democracy and market capital and the system of the capital market, I think it is something that we must learn from living and having sound judgment in our heads, which is positive and which is negative about what we are asked of stakeholders. In this segment there are indications, there are findings that during 2016 the Deputy Prime Minister in the Government of Tihomir Oreshkovic and he is not the one who sat behind me had meetings with one and the largest tobacco producer in the Republic of Croatia and the fruit of this law is the fruit of that meeting. As far as I am aware in July 2016, this bill was on a narrow cabinet and as far as I am aware and how much information has been transferred to me is that it was then downloaded at the request of the second vice-president of the Croatian Government from the government's agenda for a reason because this directly coincided with the wish and intensity of the EU directive. And what is further inside is at the request of the tobacco industry to reduce the possibility that 34% of Croatians who smoke to reduce their share in Croatian society. Because it is well known that it is over because, as fellow Jovanovic said, almost all former, almost all e-cigarette users are former smokers. And if you say, well, here we are going to equalize each other, every kind of smoking is bad, with it in principle and I can also agree. But it can't be a vacuum on the other side. On the part of the Ministry, on the part of the sanitary inspection, on the part of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, on the part of the County Institute of Public Health whose task is to promote health and combat bad habits that cause chronic non-infectious diseases, including chronic obstructive lung disease and asthma and all related to all cancers resulting from use and tobacco and related products. That battle is not won, that battle is lost. That battle, we can almost say, isn't even happening. Because we don't see when you come now, even warmer days come, if you come to Zagreb to the Flower Square or Korz to Đakovo or to the waterfront in Split, the clouds of smoke come from cafes because it's simply acceptable social behavior in Croatia, it's fashionable in Croatia, young people seem cool. And I'm calling here and I believe that fellow academics Samardzija and as president of the pulmonary disease clinic would be very happy to spend all of us through the tour, through their clinic to see how cool it is to die of lung cancer, to see how cool it is to breathe oxygen 24 hours a day through the pipes due to chronic obstructive lung disease. That's not cool. However, the social-indebted institutions, the authorities of the state administration that are responsible for the repression of these issues, are not doing so. We need to see which ones are passive, then measures. Passive measures are to have an alternative. Academic Reiner mentioned the harmfulness of nicotines that it causes to narrow blood vessels etc. I will remind you that the legal measure to stop smoking is sold in pharmaceuticals in the form of chewing gum and plastics containing nicotine as a measure to prevent smoking. Yeah, it's harmful, but it's like a drug used as a method. Is e-cigarette like something that's harmful but far away, so less than cigarettes that contain tar and e-cigarettes don't contain tar? And when you look at a pack of cigarettes that says on a pack of cigarettes as its ingredient to measure its harmfulness is tar. And that's a measure that, I'll even say, almost laysky without looking at statistics through scientific articles that are still in the bandages because it's just a new phenomenon. When we look at the causes of young smoking habits in the last 25 years since, 25 years, the 27 years that exist in the Republic of Croatia cannot be said to be caused by e-cigarettes because e-cigarettes have yet to exist in the last few years. Therefore, smoking control measures must exist, if not active, then we must have these passive methods. And one of the passive methods is to have an alternative on the market that allows one of the cigarettes to recuse. Finally, I would even support this law if I were clean on tobacco and related products, and if the Government had, when the number of smokers in society was suppressed, then there would be another law, an e-cigarette law that would then regulate that product as such. However, equating one another with another within this law is for my concept counterproductive to the wishes and wishes of the Croatian people. And what if the scientific evidence that's only in the bandages shows that they're not accurate? Because we know here's the 2016 academic Reiner quoted an article from 2016 that has been done comprehensively over something that's only been there for a few years. Thalidomide, for example, is an example of a scientifically proven drug that turned out to be not good after all. So this is also something that I think in Croatian society, which has an absurdly large number of smokers, because I think that something that is counterproductive is because the war with this socially undesirable phenomenon is simply lost. We're losing that battle. There must be an alternative method. Croatia has 34% smokers and researchers if they are done in America di we have 11% smokers, if the research done in Canada di we have 9% smokers, where 30 years there is active work of the body of the state administration, Center for Disease Control, Centres for Public Health who actively work on smoking control, here is an example. In the North American film industry, there is a law imposed by Search and General Law that says that every positive character in film, heroes of film and all other people must not be shown to smoke or drink alcohol here while we're on the subject. It's forbidden to show it. Who is allowed in the film industry, in the television industry in general, in the entertainment industry, can be shown as smokers are villains, villains. They're allowed to be seen as smokers and that's one, here's a measure, a micro measure almost an integral part of a chain that changes behavior at society level. Do we have such measures in Croatia? We don't. We have a restriction, a ban on certain measures that are potentially possible to show an improvement in the suppression of this extremely devastating habit that exists with us. Here I will finally say that the SDP will submit an amendment to this law and that we will vote with abstention during the vote because we still believe that everything else regarding the suppression of tobacco and related products is as required by the directive to be incorporated into our legislation. We can even say that the Committee president said that there is a possibility of even more restrictively putting on the issue of absolute smoking bans in closed spaces. However, including an e-cigarette in this way, in this law we believe it was not appropriate and for this reason we will vote with abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37330	Representative Zeljko Reiner responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37331	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Varga, with some of the things you said I agree with, and no one else at all. One is a comparison with thalidomide. So you know when it was thalidomide? 60 years ago. Neither were the methods of testing, nor were they... which is today, and nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this is a completely missed comparison. By the way, thalidomide then 50 years later was found to be a useful medicine for other diseases only. But you said correctly that lobbying is a normal thing, but obviously it works with us because I see that the SDP that voted for the first version of the law with all the same points concerning e-cigarette has suddenly changed its mind and is now in favour of e-cigarettes and will be restrained. So obviously lobbying works for us very well. I don't mind, I know there's lobbyist society, etc. But only enough to make that clear. What's important is saying the same thing, you mentioned the former vice presidents of the government, so then I'm sorry you succumbed to some pre-election stories. Because it could obviously be difficult to connect the former Deputy Prime Ministers to the attitude of Search and General, who said he was looking for health reasons to encourage parents especially legislators to use e-cigarettes. So now if you think that the former Deputy Prime Minister could have influenced the Search and General of the United States, then the impact of our politicians is obviously a huge international one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37332	Replication response, Agent Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37333	So I was talking about these two things extremely unrelated. Search and general comes from the United States di 30 years is systematically working actively by all the authorities of the state's smoking control. The result is that they came with about 35% of the smokers in America came up with a figure very close to 10% with a tendency to fall below 10%. And that's the statistics they start with, starting with an e-cigarette conversation. And if we in Croatia had smokers at 10% of the general population that smokes, then we could also have the same kind of discourse. However, with 34% smokers in the Republic of Croatia with a losing battle, with extremely high mortality and low birth rate. We need to have them more drastically and more creatively let's say solutions than we need today in 2017 Search and General in the United States. We have a different starting point on the appearance of e-cigarettes on our market, the market in America, the market in Croatia. I was in the U.S., and I saw them advertise and sell ampoules, i.e. e-cigarette funds extremely open, unlike tobacco cigarettes that are banned, closed and invisible. And that's something that is, I think as a measure in the Republic of Croatia might be more appropriate. but in the United States where today may not be... [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37334	Representative Ivan Celic reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37335	Your Honor, Mr. Varga. I'm sorry that you, as former health minister, have succumbed to populistism. I don't care who was sitting or when, but do you know who is the biggest investor in e-cigarette research and promotion? One company that makes these classic cigarettes. So all the big serious companies that produce tobacco cigarettes promote electronic cigarettes and produce the next generation as they call them. So that remark doesn't exactly fit you, but I think it's also that between the first and second readings you have succumbed to opinions issued by employers' associations and so without any disrespect. For me, it would be much more quantifiable if some professional association had given a certain opinion. The fact is that electronic cigarettes are designed as a medical device, is also the fact that a number of psychopharmacists have been used in studies related to smoking discontinuation, but at this point there are only two drugs approved by the FDA and by the EMA to stop smoking. So what we should be talking about here, and why in some ways we should sort of classify electronic cigarettes as well as classic cigarettes, regardless of what they're less harmful, that's what we should talk about in our society, and that's promotion of non-smoking. So, by electronic cigarettes, we promote smoking that is only less harmful now. The role of professional institutions, primarily the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the county institutions they need promote public health actions that will promote non-smoking. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37336	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Vargo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37337	Let's start by talking about statistics, the World Health Organization asks the Republic of Croatia and all member states to report and then does so in Croatia, for example, the Croatian Institute of Public Health, reports on the number of smokers per age group in the Republic of Croatia, and then sends it within its statistics to the competent authorities. Vaper, so-called. Vaper or e-cigarette smokers are not listed in smoking statistics, are not counted, are not considered. These are two different categories of population, they just don't add up to that statistic. If we say that someone who smokes an electronic cigarette is equal to a smoker, then we break international standards of statistics. And when we talk about self-pity and when we talk about the number of smokers in the Republic of Croatia comparisons we now have a tanker going down on the hill, and other countries are talking about whether a tanker should be painted white or blue. Why? Because their safety is different and better. Our tanker's going down the hill. Why? Because that's why 30% of the proportion of smokers in the Republic of Croatia where we're number one in Europe with a share of young people's smoking, where girls become more statistically significant, a greater proportion of smokers than boys are extremely banning and trends are negative, our trends are devastating. The method to suppress it must be more drastic than in those countries where the methods are more peaceful when the share of smokers is about 10%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37338	Representative Ivan Kirin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37339	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Honorable Representative Varga. We all know and you're informed in the world of smoking cca 3 billion and 300 million people, about 6 million people dying of the consequences, or what's causing the smoking. So in Croatia, it smokes cca 30, 33% of citizens, and it dies from the consequences of smoking cca 10 thousand people. We know and mention that at the beginning of the 20th century smoking was an acceptable social phenomenon or habit. At the beginning of the 21st century, it wasn't. Even in America, smokers or citizens are moved and classified as second-class citizens. You mentioned you and academic Rainer that it was the surgical American societies that got up and ran the anti-smoking campaign. Not only does smoking cause lung cancer and other cardiovascular diseases, and we move on, it's even difficult to heal fractures in smokers. In America, for example, you will rarely find someone to operate on the stained bone of a chronic smoker. Why? Because there's a microcirculation and bone healing that's also related to the problem. Of course it's mentioned that e-cigarette much less damage, it's clear, it's clear to everyone. In the classic tobacco and cigarettes there is cca 43 Species of carcinogenic substances [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] [[Attack Petrov: Representative Kirin is out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37340	Time's up, I'm sorry. The answer to the replica, Representative Vargo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37341	I'm thanking you. So, everything my colleague Kirin said about tobacco and related effects is clearly standing, scientifically proven over decades accumulated data and now we have novelty, novelty. It may really be that in 30 years it is proven that electronic cigarettes cause after 10 years of using that you will grow deadlines on your head. Not for any other reason, but for the use of electronic cigarettes. However, the fact is that this is only a novelty there is no scientific evidence of any harmfulness except in certain people who have a predisposition to certain chemicals that are... I, as a citizen, would love it if absolutely no one smokes, no electronic cigarettes, no tobacco cigarettes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I appeal again, I'm talking about us losing the battle with the tobacco. You are working on surgery in Rijeka, you see very well every day, smokers in the Republic of Croatia versus abroad we are number 1 in the world with a continuation of smoking after a stroke or a heart attack. This means that the fashion habit, the right to smoke exceeds it is almost at the level of masochism to smoke no matter how well it knows that smoking caused that stroke still smokes after he's over it. In my department, patients on the fire escape after laryngectomy smoke on a cannula on their necks. It's an amazing sight, it's an amazing sight to see. And we lose the battle, we have to have alternative methods, not those methods used in countries where they win smoking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37342	Representative Marko Vučetic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37343	Here's colleague Varga, I'd go from that, what's unequivocal is that smoking is addiction and that we need to fight this addiction, we can and we're invited to fight with every means possible. But in these possible means, they shouldn't include what's impossible, they shouldn't include a kind of anthropological destruction. What does that mean? Let's not introduce illicit causal relations. For example, you were talking about not showing up in movies, and it's just a practice that only people who smoke to portray themselves as villains. I think it's totally inappropriate. Because based on one harmful habit we do one valuable or moral or any other character, we prename that problem. And we shouldn't be seeing in public a man who's within a circle or a limit of some addiction to immediately conclude that it's a villain or something. It's not about the addict, it's about the addiction that needs to be won. On the other hand, because this is about demonizing then. On the other hand, we have this de-intimation in case the smokers want to quit smoking or all those who don't even start that way, to show them patients, it's also completely wrong because we can't identify patients with a disease and we can't because they're sick, they're getting some kind of habit, and now we can deintimize them as patients. The disease certainly needs to be spoken of, it is necessary to talk about how we will fight addiction but everywhere we need to preserve this human dimension, the dimension of respect in which there will be neither deintimisation nor demonization.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37344	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Vargo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37345	I agree with your academic, civic attitude regarding any stigmatization of anyone, on any basis, that's not good. I am speaking again from the health aspect, from the aspect of the management of the health system from management at the level of the minister to the direct treatment of the patient by the doctor of family medicine or specialists in the hospital battle we are fighting with smoking we are losing that battle. We're looking for general social mobilization to prevent that. If we're going to make a cartoon from this to the end, like we're just looking at a killer on a cliff or on the edge of a skyscraper that he wants to jump, and we're not going to say that he's just a murderer, we're not going to do anything to stop him from killing himself because that's what we're going to do. I can't agree with that. It is our duty to protect everyone's life, and when it does itself harm to itself, such as smoking, alcohol, drugs, all other forms of self-destruction that have become fashionable in the Republic of Croatia. We must, and every surgeon in the hospital in Rijeka and gastroenterologist in the KB Dubrava and dentist on Pasman, each must also have public health care to contain, in order to contain any harmful behavior as such. And I call also non-smokers, if we have 30% of the smokers, we have a hell of a 70% non-smoking. I call on non-smokers to finally raise their voice and say, please stop poisoning us, stop it, that's enough already. And finally every smoker who came to the U.S. knows very well what it means to be a smoker in America and how he's being socialized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37346	The applicant's representative asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37347	... found that how many weeks ago we were unanimous and now it's a turn-off and it's not hard to interpret if we know the next fact, which is that electronic cigarettes are already today, one big business, and especially the projection of big business tomorrow. [[Specially enabled.]] And it's normal for lobbying to exist, and that's where these changes are likely to come from. Because if a month ago we thought cancer was a dangerous disease or a heart attack, death by death, and today we say it's not, it sounds a little strange in scientific and medical terms. There's something else that surprises me about you, Doctor. Varga, you call nicely and I welcome it to prevention, prevention and measures taken to get as few people into the water of smokers as possible. To get as low as possible in the water of the smokers and actually by calling the so-called. The freedom of electronic cigarettes is actually called initiation. Because it's known that in fact one number of people through electronic cigarettes enters tobacco cigarettes. And I think this measure is so-called. large freedoms without harmful effects of electronic cigarettes, which you advocate in a certain way if nothing else is calling for initiation and in certain percentages encouraging young people. Try it, so when he tries this, you'll see in a month, two that he didn't buy a pack of tobacco cigarettes. I think we should still keep track of as many lives as possible, keep what you can do to prevent them, and certainly electronic cigarettes are not prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37348	The replica was reported by a representative of Sinish Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37349	I thank the minister. I think we agree on one basis, but I reject the accusation that I have succumbed to lobbyists or any of my party colleagues for a simple reason because I personally had no contact with any lobbyist. So I couldn't give in to something I wasn't in touch with. But even if I did, did I succumb to lobbyists just like the entire European Commission, as a whole... in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether the Commissioner in charge of healthcare has succumbed to lobbyists because there are no provisions in the directive. These are only introduced in the Republic of Croatia. And the question is who is who, where, to what level does the conspiracy theory of lobbyists go? I'm talking about a healthy logic. We forbid electronic cigarettes. When? When we get to the level of smoker at 10%. When we're at a 10% smoker level, we ban absolutely everything. But that's, we're talking about the fact that in the Republic of Croatia I think there's a saying in the people you smoke, for example, a Turk. Extensively, however, they banned smoking in all public places and closed spaces in Turkey. In Turkey, the number of smokers, the proportion of the Turkish population who smokes, is smaller than in the Republic of Croatia. And you will become in the world, unfortunately, a saying you smoke like a Croat. And that's something I think we didn't deserve as a people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37350	The reply to the replica of Minister Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37351	Just for a little while. Thank you very much, Mr. President. For a short time, Croatia is not the only country, so there are many countries, and you and I, from Austria, Finland, Belgium, Slovakia, Portugal, Spain, do not continue to list what we are saying in Croatia. And I believe there will be even more tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37352	Representative Vesna Bedeković reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37353	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My respects to Mr. Minister and his associates. I'd just look back briefly on this part, unfortunately the minister is leaving, but the ladies are there, his presentation in which he spoke about prevention, so also the importance of prevention. In fact, I look forward to and fully support the addition of the law in the second reading, which is extended to educational institutions in the 25th ban on smoking within a 20 m radius. In fact, we are all aware of the facts and terriblely ugly images of the entry into our educational and educational institutions from primary schools through secondary schools, and especially colleges and higher education institutions where at the entrance the first picture we meet is a young man with a cigarette in his hands, a space full of buttocks, and lately also a steady amount and number of young people with an electronic cigarette, so in his hands which certainly provides both in aesthetic and social terms one and in every other sense provides an ugly picture. I'd just like to remind the space 20 meters outside the entrance to the institution. In fact, school institutions cover a much wider area than 20 metres. And today we have and we will certainly have an ugly picture on the school playgrounds, in the slightly remote parts of the school space of a bunch of our young people who consume tobacco products there, thinking they're hidden from the eyes of the public and, therefore, initiate themselves, perform their own initiation and proof in the adult world and prove it, so before The peers. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] And in that sense, I fully support the part where we should work primarily on smoking prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37354	Thank you. Agent Reiner called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37355	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I just wanted to replicate something to do with the minister, and it's actually about the story of harmfulness or not the harmfulness of e-cigarette. Of course, I'll repeat again they're less harmful than tobacco cigarettes, but they're harmful and that's known. And let's not pretend we don't know that. That's one thing. The other thing is the question of their use. It was mentioned and a colleague of Varga mentioned it in rehab. From the fact that we don't have scientific evidence that it's really happening, to the fact that I might personally accept it, because you compared it to chewing gum and plastics. But under what conditions are they sold? Only in the pharmacy. You can't come to the store and buy yourself a nicotine chewing gum. If it were sold in drugstores, regardless of the unproven effects on quit smoking, maybe I could personally accept it. But this is how I normally sell them, and I certainly say it on the basis of everything we know, it's not justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37356	Thank you. Representative Ines Strenja-Linic reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37357	Your Honor, your Honor, your honors. I'd just like to do a few more things over and over again so we know why we're even discussing this law today. Therefore, this law prohibits the placing on the market of tobacco products with characteristic flavourings, requires a new way legally to regulate the new way of marking tobacco products in the form of combined health warnings with those images which are finally placed and messages texting about the harmfulness of tobacco products, the obligation to report on the ingredients of tobacco products and electronic cigarettes in the standardised electronic form, the unit packaging that must form a single classification mark, the uniform treatment of the use of e-cigarette containers containing nicotine and a whole series of others that we have read in the first reading and that we all agreed on. And today we're discussing e-cigarettes. So after the first reading after we proposed to ban advertising and sponsoring tobacco products that were so far in the future to refer to e-cigarettes also caused major polemics, mass of e-cigarettes, pressures in terms of media articles through newspapers, you can Google it and see actually those who promote e-cigarette sales. As caused by the dissent of the tobacco industry which requested and the suspension of the application of legislation which was not applied because of some lobbying of a delay in application, we would still allow them to adapt to the production of cigarettes to these new inscriptions and images that they must place. And so it's all expected. But what I didn't expect in this month's SDP colleagues would drastically change their position by 180 degrees to fully support this law, and I can't agree in any way that they haven't succumbed to any lobbying. So why all this? All of this is because every former smoker lives longer than a smoker whose life on average is 10 years shorter than people who haven't smoked. What we want to promote and encourage is a smoking ban, a complete smoking ban, not a smoking ban, but something less harmful. As counterpart Reiner said, that e-cigarette is a medicinal product we would have in our list of medicinal products and one e-cigarette as something used as a dispensation agent. So today it is fully scientificly documented how harmful smoking is, as well as tobacco use, and according to the global report of the 2014 World Scientific Organisation on non-infectious chronic diseases, we know that over six million deaths in the world are annually related to tobacco use. So if urgent and effective measures are not taken, the estimates say that smoking will kill over a billion people in this century, and that's what we're talking about here today, so we're talking about banning smoking on all the measures that we have to take to get that smoking out of that habit that's going to be promoted and only by banning it and anything to completely reduce the possibility of anyone even entering the world of smoking. So it is necessary to build a society where smoking will be socially unacceptable. That process has already begun. Many parents decide not to smoke in rooms where children are, etc., but it takes a lot of work and coordinated action to reach a satisfactory level of consciousness of our nation. So we don't want less harmful smoking than our colleague said before, we want to stop smoking in our country because we know what that means for our nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37358	Representative Ivan Celic reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37359	Dear Dr Strenja-Linić, I fully support everything you said. I would briefly refer to the familiarity of the directives in the Republic of Croatia, so why national regulatory contexts if we should blindly follow what is said in the EU directives. Therefore, the European Commission is asking us to place a particular area in a particular legal framework. In which way, it leaves national legislations with certain recommendations on how this should look. Do you know how fruit beer came about? Fruit beer came from a beer industry that wanted to attract adolescents, minors to consume alcoholic beverages with a higher percentage in the later future of their lives. Don't you find that similar to the situation around the explanation and rationalization related to the consumption of electronic cigarettes? Well, don't defend yourself by this law as if, as if a colleague of Varga spoke as if completely prohibiting the consumption or consumption of electronic cigarettes. I repeat what Dr Strenja-Linić said, so we all need to push for the promotion of non-smoking, and in this sense I welcome this law on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37360	Reply to the replica of Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37361	So I'm just going to repeat once again, that year-on-year for smoking-related diseases means for both treatment and medication and health budget sick leave out 1.5 billion kuna from HZZO. According to data from the European Scientific Survey conducted in Croatia in subjects aged 18 years and over, 25% said that in the last 12 months it has been smoking, 29% of which were men and 20% of women. But what's most important in 11-year-olds is 9% of boys and 2.3% of girls say they tried to smoke. So 9% of boys 11 years old. This legislative proposal aims to improve the need to reduce smoking from existing smokers, to protect the health of all of us who are non-smokers and to suffer these consequences, but in particular we want to reduce the initiation of young people and minors. The initiation of an electronic smoking permit in closed spaces as an adequate replacement from smoking cigarettes will do nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37362	Representative Reiner reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37363	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Strenja-Linić, I completely agree with everything you've said. And I share my astonishment with you that colleagues from the SDP who were together a month ago and on the board we sat and in plenary discussion, fully supported this law, however, here it is, the promoter and accepted one suggestion from a fellow SDP and complemented in that sense the law but no, without having to do with e-cigarettes, now suddenly become great advocates of e-cigarettes, powerful defenders of it etc.. I have to admit it's something very surprising, at least for me and amazing. However, I need to say one more thing, and that is, all that we bring is good, but the issue is key implementation. As with all other law enforcement and this law. And here we're not really successful, we're all not successful together, and we have to do the most to really do our inspections in schools, hospitals, all those places, by places where cigarettes are sold, because we're all witnessing to smoke unfortunately despite the law and schools and hospitals and to sell cigarettes to minors despite our very good laws. And I plead to the ministry, to all the services to strengthen the inspection to really start controlling it because only when a few are punished, when that little expands, will there really be an application of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37364	Representative Ivan Kirin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37365	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. Dear representatives of STRENJA-Linić, we know that Croatia is the 23rd country of 182 countries by the number of cigarettes smoked. Of course we stand and advocate, and we must continue to fight all together, regardless of what the position of a certain act of MPs has changed in the meantime since the last debate. So you should ban smoking classics and e-cigarettes in all closed spaces. This is clear and only not active smoking, passive smoking, but also microparticles found in large cities are caused by other improvement and lung cancers. You mentioned well that with, on the pack of cigarettes there are also pictures, 42 different and 14 text messages. And did you notice what you think about the market for holsters not tabs, holsters that are opacity-free to put cigarette boxes in? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37366	The proposer's representative wishes to give the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37367	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm here for you all, or for those who aren't here right now, and they were involved in creating this law, lighting it up from all sides, and I want to thank everyone. I also want to believe, regardless of today's certain deviations and removals from what we all said four weeks ago, and yesterday on the board, that the vote will actually adopt this law unanimously because with it we really do not only adapt to the cracks of the directive but we are, above all, protecting the health of Croatian citizens and, above all, children and young people. And in that sense, in that sense, I think that what has been tabled for amendments that I can say right now that we do not accept them because, unfortunately, they recognise that they are not in line with the directive and on the other hand, they recognize a certain benefit to groups that have probably tried to influence the adoption of a different law. Thank you very much with the belief that on Tuesday we will have a new law unanimously passed and thus we are, above all, protecting the health of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37368	Thank you. Representative Batinic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37369	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, that we will support the law independently of these discussions on the classification, i.e. the qualification of e-cigarette. I am a smoker and I will personally say that I am no longer disturbed by these photographs in good faith and that it is not the only way to do so. I also believe that you are aware that in non-smoking booths in catering facilities and in those where smokers, where smokers have far more guests of consumption. But I wanted to, and I volunteered exclusively for the replica for the reason we're with alcohol? I'd love to, every day in the press, whether it's a car accident, whether it's domestic violence, whether it's suicide, whether it's any other deviant occurrences of alcohol, so much spilled into the blood, I'd like to believe that you have in your program and that in the same way, maybe even more rigorously to take a stand for alcohol drinks. 'Cause I think they are, if they're not as big as so many monsters as cigarettes. And they have the same impact on the financial effects, i.e. the negatives, in terms of the budget for health care. In fact, it's just as young and the younger population is a consumption of alcohol regardless of whether it's a beer that's a food product, a little weird. Wine, shots or some other aperitious drinks. I'd like a hundred, and I expect everyone here to take a stand just as much, and as soon as your ministry is determined by alcohol and I'd like to see the labels of alcoholic beverages, too, disturbing photos, so I believe that would get the effect, too. It would have been very clear that this government would have sent a message. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37370	Thank you. Replication response, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37371	I actually want to thank you for instigating other than the fight against smoking and alcohol and I can directly testify as a gastroenterologist that, unfortunately, countless times I have seen that life has been destroyed and not just patients, but that life has been destroyed well and the whole family. And on this trail in the new Law on Combating Addiction, a plan has been made and in the fight against alcohol, and we will surely get together again, I believe we will have an agreement to continue on the trail as it is with smoking and alcohol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37372	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next session is Tuesday at 10.00 p.m. I would ask all the presidents of the parent committee to discuss the points they've received today. The first point we will continue with on Tuesday at 10.00 is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive Papers and Archives. Thank you. Session interrupted at 11.40 p.m. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 102. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representatives of Sinisa Varga, Ana Comparić-Devčić, Pedja Grbin. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Health Minister Milan Kujundzic. The first amendment submitted by Siniš Varga, Ana Comparić-Devčić and Peđa Grbin, representatives of the SDP in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The first amendment is not accepted. The use of electronic cigarettes is one step towards nicotine addiction and finally the traditional use of tobacco. It is therefore necessary to adopt a restrictive approach to sponsoring the promotion and advertising of electronic cigarettes. for that reason, the amendments shall not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37375	Whether or not the applicant's representative would like to take the floor. Here you go. Representative Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37376	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the club and as an amendment promoter, we give up all three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-28-0.u37377	You're pulling all three? Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 103 votes for, 8 abstentions and 2 against the passed Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the beginning of this session, I invite you to pay tribute to twelve Croatian police officers who, on this day of 1991 in Borovo Selo, laid down their lives for our country. - A minute of silence. - May they have eternal glory and thank you! - Praise them! - I'm sorry.
