ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25096	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on the situation in Sisak-Moslavina County because we want nuclear waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25097	Okay. The following came from MP Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25098	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, I am also asking, in fact, the break has already been but I want to warn the public of a strategic position, a very unfavorable, difficult position of blocked people and those who will be completed because I think they are neglecting and that this is the strategic problem of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25099	Thank you. And the third was the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac in the name of the Living Wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25100	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, I would like to request a break to discuss the results of the Economic Institute on Poverty in Croatia, particularly on child poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25101	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I am looking for a break because of a dangerous situation in which young people are in the Republic of Croatia and their future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25103	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25104	On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes on the situation in Dalmatinska Zagora and on the launch, i.e. on the launch of an office initiative in Dalmatia Zagora.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25105	Thank you. Anyone else? No one else. If you accept my interpretation that we've already had a break, then we'd start immediately if you agree. Okay, since the break's already been. Then I suggest, then the first word will be given to the honourable representative Dumbovic. Here you go. My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats and do not talk that colleague Dumbovic can say what he wants to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25106	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and parliamentary representatives. I am particularly pleased to welcome you today, and I took a break because Sisak-Moslavina County is easy but certainly with all these proposals that we just received from the new study will be a future destination of nuclear waste. Here I can say responsibly and argue that for all citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County, it is not acceptable because we believe that our county in the Homeland War has paid a huge price that would now be a destination of nuclear waste and I believe that nuclear waste should be eliminated primarily because of valuable people who have broken the good foundations of organic production, and as you know that this same location is foreseen in the Trade Mountain in the Municipality of Dvor, which many citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County can say not only those but also those in the edge of the BiH border belt said not to nuclear waste. Over the years, the Croatian Parliament has had this topic here, and this topic has always been spread in a way that is the easiest way for the garbage to end up in someone else's backyard. When it's nuclear junk, then believe me, it's not good, it's not the future. And what Sisak-Moslavina County is doing and many cities that have been devastated in that part and are abandoned because of and what, we can say here openly, the political muscles here from the Parliament that have shown that they have all fought to not end this nuclear waste at their home but that as far as possible, that is better. It is clear that the whole of Croatia wants to become and is a national park and there is no region throughout our beautiful country that the same region has no regional park, national park, and we in Sisak-Moslavina County should become national garbage and nuclear waste destination. Family farmers, many associations, civil initiatives, international organisations have made it clear that they do not want nuclear waste in the Trade Mountain because they believe that this same stamp that is placed on every organic product that should be produced on our Banovina right now and create a good opportunity and a good opportunity through all the incentives they give and what cities like Petrinja, Sisak-Moslavina County give to develop what is most valuable and work and environmental production. There will never be a gentleman in this part of it again. I want that same government that gets the proposal from the Institute of Nuclear Security, and as we know from the media that the government will make the most likely decision at the head of the HDZ government and the MOST government, and I think it should be clear that if they happen to think about making such a decision that they should make parallel and decision that would be that same area of Sisak-Moslavina County and Banovina would be an unspective area and that there would never be a future there again. We don't have it now, and I don't think we'll have it in particular then. I believe that you will come all together to lead our beautiful country into a region that is permanently lagging behind in development, where the country of Croatia was created. And let me remind you in that same Bermuda triangle where 50,000 jobs are gone, at least 80,000 people live, that's half of the county that remains abandoned and abandoned, and statistics say we're permanently lagging behind and the question is when we're going to develop. In this way, never. Thank you very much for listening to me. I hope we have this topic in the Croatian Parliament where many decisions were made exactly [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] in the interest of your election units in which you received votes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And that's why I wonder if they'll exist, too. MPs who will fight now in these elections to say no to nuclear waste. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25107	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Advocacy Club Let's change Croatia's speech by distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, MPs and respected citizens who follow us through the media. We need to free 330 thousand citizens who are literally in debt slavery. This request has been made several times over the past months, but I am again presenting it on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia because apparently the requirements do not become, do not come, so there is no realisation of them no enforcement. Let me remind you, almost a million people are burdened with blockage and execution problems. The debtor has 330 thousand times three certainly on a family basis, that's about a million people. From 2013 to the end of 2016, the number of blocked citizens increased by about 80,000, but the total amount of debt increased from 20 billion to 41 billion kuna in these three years. So please, when such debts rise from 20 to 41 billion kuna in three years, that's a terrible problem. It's no longer a family issue, this is a couple of excellence issues of this society and this country. Therefore, I ask the Parliament, of all the MPs here to put the executive law out of force temporarily until within a month, two of them do not bring about changes that will solve this unacceptable and terrible situation and the situation in which they are blocked. I also ask on behalf of the club Let's change Croatia's suspension of the performance on the basis of a credible document carried out by public notebooks, carried out by FIN. In recent days, the European Commission, Parliament, has made a decision or opinion that the implementation of enforcement through public notebooks is unacceptable, that it is nowhere in the EU alone. So as this country jumps at every moment in Brussels and jumps off a chair, why now it does not do the same when one EU opinion is to be put out of force. We have the worst executive law in Europe, and it's clear to everyone. Most of the total debt is not the principal, our citizens are not running away from repaying the debt, I repeat, they are not running away from repaying the debt. But they don't want to rightly pay the interest rates that are charged there, they don't want to pay excessive interest costs for a lot of purposes, and it's simply unacceptable. We are far below the civilization level of a Thessaloniki that was meant by the prominent state in Greece 2,000 years ago, gentlemen. I didn't come here to repeat things, he offers me a solution on behalf of the club Let's change Croatia. Listen to me. At present, we can resolve the debt slavery of 50,000 citizens who owe up to 2 thousand kuna. It's a total debt of 100 million kuna. Just re-financing of the kuna part of the debt, the debt of a one-billion-dollar government, from a billion kunas at an annual level. If the state paid 5% to that billion kuna and it did, that's how much? That's 100 million kuna. So we can refinance, so by replacing if we pay 2% to save, it means somewhere around 60 million kuna. And if we replace two billion and that debt is about 160 billion kunas in kunas, you can see that we can save about 4.8 billion kunas in total and 1 billion of them can be set aside by 50,000 people in a matter of days. So we have a solution because there's always an explanation and an opinion that keeps going, there's no solution, there's no state budgets in this state, in that state. So, gentlemen, we have a final solution. The Change Party Croatia wants a radical solution to this problem. We're, we're gonna be radical, why? Because we have knowledge and we know how to solve it. But we can't solve it, dear citizens who are blocked without your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25109	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representative Branimir Bunjac on behalf of the Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25110	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Last week, the results of a scientific study by the Institute of Economics of Croatian citizens and especially on child poverty led by staff of the Paul Steps Institute. The study lasted 15 months and was conducted in the field of 15 areas of the Centre for Social Care in the Republic of Croatia. The results of this survey show that the income available to citizens is falling, i.e. increasing rates of child poverty. After Croatian citizens pay the directorship and other obligations they have monthly they survive with amounts between 670 to 830 kuna per member of the family. Due to the lack of Croatian citizens, about 68% of them borrow money to survive the month and most often borrow money from family or friends. At least once, 66% of citizens were late to pay for their directors within 3 months, so many of them met with warnings or exclusions. About 54% of Croatian citizens addressed institutions for help. Almost half of them have to make extra money to cover their living expenses. Those who have loans on average pay 37% to cover their credit obligations. One third of those surveyed must produce food themselves or take it from relatives because they do not have enough food for 30 days from their own work. There is a particular problem with child poverty because many, where children lose the chance of equal success with other children already in preschool age. Many parents cannot afford a place to study, can’t afford toys, social games, education, or any paid activity. About 44% of parents eat less so children have enough and 21% of parents go to sleep without dinner loudly. Only every 3rd child in the Republic attends kindergarten, regularly, means two thirds of children do not regularly attend kindergarten, which means that one part of their childhood is kept by grandparents or simply stay at home. Parents can't afford to spend their holidays in 70% of the time and in 30% of the cases, they can't afford fruit or vegetables. Half the parents don't have any money to celebrate their birthdays or have money to put on their children's shoes. So buying shoes is a problem. 55% of parents can't take their children to the movies, 43% of parents can't buy their children a computer and 25% of children in Croatia don't have their own bed. So they sleep in bed with someone else. 18% of children have one or two pairs of pants, which means they can't even afford third pants. This is very important to realize that in fact one huge part of Croatian citizens, so most can't settle their costs even when both parents are employed. For this reason, I would like the representatives to consider further burdening Croatian citizens, the need to raise the VAT we had on January 1st, on the need to increase tolls, on the need to increase gas, gas prices and electricity, on the need to introduce real estate taxes. Because the question arises if parents and employees do not have the money for what I have now listed where they will have more money for these additional things that our Government in 2017 means to add to the burden. Therefore, I ask you to take this research which is available publicly available to the Economic Institute seriously, to study it and to finally launch some concrete measures in Croatia to reduce poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25111	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we were looking for this break to talk as we announced how the future of young people in the Republic of Croatia is very dangerously threatened. You may not be surprised, but actually at the heart of what we want to talk about today is of course education. In fact, the future of all Croatia is at risk if the future of young people is compromised. In the campaign, our current prime minister spoke about how the trend of emigration of young people from Croatia would be halted. However, this trend not only has not been stopped, it is if we are benevolent, we will say that it is continued, and if we are clear we will say that it may have been worsened. Highly educated people, young doctors of science in Brussels and in other European high-school metropolises, are doing low-complex work because in Croatia, first of all, they cannot find a job that corresponds to their level of education. And you know what they say? They say it's not just pay, it's the employer's relationship with them, it's how they're treated, it's not people's, it's not labour, for example. So HDZ's departure of young people is not that it did not stop, but that it continued and increased. And how different it is to understand when even the youngest citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not have equal opportunities. A large number in the Republic of Croatia have no possibility of preschool education at all. Even 73 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia do not provide for preschool education in their territory, and in a large, even larger number of municipalities, i.e. local self-government units, the number of hours of school education is minimal. In the 21st century, in the Republic of Croatia, a large part of Croatian schools have asbestos roofs, part of them leaks, part of them are not provided school cuisine. Some don't even have sanitary knots. Local teachers and teachers are scoffed, ridiculed, underpaid, and their human intellectual potential is the foundation of Croatia's future. The Kurdish reform of HDZ and the Most has stopped. This reform that was actually the result of the community, it was something that was above party or ideological issues. It was encouraged by the fact that our educational outcomes in the last 12 years have been in all functional literacy below the average of the PISA studies. As many as 45% of our students in high school and four-year vocational schools at the end of the first grade have completed a 2nd in mathematics. The University of Zagreb is the best-placed Croatian university not even among the top 500 best in the world, it is currently ranked according to some relevant lists as the sixth 50th. I'm not going to belittle some other universities here in some other countries, but don't you think it's a shame? And what is done at that university, even in Croatian studies, we listened a lot. Now, the Senate of that university will vote in favour of the proposal completely contrary to what they have voted for recently. Namely, 15 seats will be reintroduced as quotas for philosophy at Croatian Studies. We're here to tell you that the SDP won't take it. In those places where the SDP is in power, we can promise you Croatian citizens that we will fight back into the past and for your future, we will fight for the young. We're going to introduce additional, university content that you can use for everyday life. Entrepreneurship, sustainable development, civic education, we will introduce an extended stay where is needed, we will co-finance school transport, we will work on the employment of personal assistants in continuing to work with children who are gifted as well as those children who have special needs. We'll inform schools with super fast internet, co-finance the purchase of textbooks, work on teachers and teachers' dignity and young people's dignity. This is what we want to tell you here from this place and promise you whatever at national level HDZ and MOST do to destroy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25113	Thank you very much. And the last one will speak for the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most and Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian state stands out 600 million kuna for mountain and mountain areas. However, many underdeveloped local self-governments have been transferred to Group 3 and 4 and are essentially underdeveloped. This just happened most in the area of Gorski Kotar, Like, Dalmatian Zagora and Slavonia and, of course, the islands. We see that an office has been established at the Ministry of Regional Development for the Islands, but I would now talk about the Dalmatian Zagora, a problem of mountainous and mountainous areas that have been declared an unfair law in 2014 by a developed area. In fact, numerous local self-governments and the entire mountainous and mountainous region of the Dalmatian Zagora are becoming more and more burned ground, a country without people, a country without children's wages, a country of empty schools, a country without kindergartens. And what's worse is when we look at the whole area that was not so long ago, the greatest human potential, there were numerous families, there was cattle farming, there was agriculture, we had a number of fields, words that could be used, fertile fields that could be used to produce food. Unfortunately, we see what has been brought about, that certain tycoons have taken over through the political elites of the monopoly and now calling on me to see my previous colleagues on some new ones of their own, they must understand that they have destroyed the Republic of Croatia, especially the Dalmatian Zagora. So for example, islands now have an office established by the Ministry of Regional Development where they will be able to finance their capital projects. Recently, the minister of 20 million kuna was given to the office of funds for certain programmes. However, all who have been expelled as Vrgorac, Sinj from the mountainous and mountainous areas of Groups 1 and 2, can absolutely not compete evenly with their projects, first because of the score, and secondly, they have no fiscal capacity to monitor their sources with certain amounts of funds needed. So the example in this area of Sinj, Vrgorca and Lečevica is the most expensive water in these areas of local self-government, due to the configuration of the terrain, the most expensive electrical energy and pre-discharges literally have no more local self-government and the richest area of water. We have the richest area of the river Cetina, a large number of places with no water supply. When you come to those places that are under the mountainous are essentially very promising to have what to give are 20km from the coast, unfortunately in these areas there are no investments, at all thinking that there is transportation provided for students, that they have free textbooks absolutely forgotten by the ends. The central state is the primary culprit, but the biggest blame is the county. I can personally say that as far as Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia are concerned, they are not the same body. So much more potential, here's how much of Istria's hinterland is developed, much greater potential is the Dalmatian Zagora. If these trends continue, that area will be empty. For this reason, and on the initiative of a number of independent lists in this area, it is time to establish an office with the Ministry of Zagora, at the Ministry of Regional Development, and I call on the minister to form the office as soon as possible, to allocate some of the funds for the programmes and capital projects of these local self-governments. The only solution is to help the areas directly, otherwise all decentralised funds that come to Split-Dalmatia County are unevenly deployed and that is painful. It is painful that our birthplaces are empty, it is painful that kindergartens are empty, and it is painful that our children are gone, that our classes are literally halved. Once again, most importantly, without direct support from the state as it has done on the islands of the office, until an office for the Dalmatian Zagora is built, the whole area will disappear. It's primarily national interest for national security and others as human potential. That is why I call once again to preserve the Dalmatian Zagora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u25115	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to the agenda points. And the first is: - Proposal for a decision to amend the decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of Porajmos, a holocaust marked on August 2nd. The applicant shall be represented by Veljko Kajtazi on the basis of Article 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received his report at the session. The applicant submitted an amendment that becomes an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Honorable representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35181	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. By decision of 12 December 2014, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Proposal for a Decision declaring the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of Poramosa Holocaust marking August 2nd. Over the last six years, we have held a memorial honoring the Roma victims of World War II and at the highest level. The ceremony was attended by the entire state summit and the Roma Alliance in the Republic of Croatia... has the support of the organisation of numerous institutions, including several governments and the Republic of Croatia, the state president's institutions and, of course, the president of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you this way to all colleagues and colleagues who have supported us in the worthy marking of the death of the Roma in World War II. The Roma cemetery Ustice, located in the Jasenovac Memorial complex, is largely arranged, and every other August there are hundreds, even thousands of Roma from the Republic of Croatia, neighbouring countries and Europe. We took an additional step last year in collaboration with Croatian Radio Television, which was broadcast directly on channel 4. I hope we'll do it again this year and it'll become a tradition. I expect that by the end of the current government's term of office, in accordance with the operational programme for the Roma National Minority of Cemetery, we can further edit the cemetery, build a museum setup, as well as that the loss of Roma during the NDH and World War II throughout Europe will also take place in school textbooks and media. We believe that in the current curricula there was neither enough talk of the loss of the Roma during World War II nor of the role of the Roma and their participation in the Homeland War. The village of Ustica and the area nearby is unfortunately the site of the largest collective death of Roma in these areas and in this part of Europe. Although the figures will never be known, especially when we talk about Roma who, unlike other peoples, were numbered by the number of wagons. The official figures we're dealing with say that about 17,000 Roma died in the Jasenovac camp complex. In the text of the proposal for a Decision declaring the International Day of Remembrance of Roma Victims, the term “pojamos” used by the Roma community is used as an concept marking the death of Roma during World War II. In addition to the term “pojamos,” we use the term “holocaust” both expressions have proved inappropriate in line with the conclusions of the International Roma Union, which has led me to decide to initiate the amendment of the earlier decision. On nine. The International Roma Union Congress, held in 2015 in Latvia, representatives of the Roma Community and around the world agreed on the above, and in particular the fact that the word “pojamos” and its other variants are not appropriate, and how it is necessary to replace it more precisely with the term “compatible”. It was therefore agreed that the concept of "samuradipen" in the Roma language is the closest concept of genocide, or concept that can describe the death of the Roma in World War II. Using proper terminology is very important in view of the specific situation of the Roma and their spatial, distribution in Europe and the world. In this sense, the term “Samdaraipen” in all its variants is understood to the Roma around the world and as such and termological and linguistically the best solution. This was later confirmed at a series of meetings including an international health meeting on the occasion of the World Day of the Roma Language, held from 3rd to 6th of November 2016 in HAZU, organised by the Roma Roma Alliance Kali Sara. The second part of the problem with the current name was used the term “Holocaust” in the previous decision. Namely, “Holokaust” or... As we all know the concepts used in a greater sense for the destruction of the Jewish people during World War II. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although these concepts are also used to describe the death of Roma and other victims, the need and strong demands of the Roma people have been shown to associate their own suffering with the most transparent concept in the Roma language. We must consider that the Roma community needed more time in a systematic manner and through institutions to present its demands than to other victims' nations. And I am proud that just now the Croatian Parliament is one of the first in the world to recognise and confirm the demands of the Roma community. The practice of the institution of the Republic of Croatia has become a role model for many European countries. Whenever some international conferences are organised, our ambassadors and other envoys have the opportunity to present everything that has been done so far to integrate Roma in the Republic of Croatia at institutional level into the system when we talk about Roma holidays and important dates. One of such international gatherings will be held on 7 April in the Vatican where our ambassadors at the Holy See in the Republic of Italy will present our number of joint successes. Once again, I remind you that just on the initiative of the Republic of Croatia and UNESCO, the World Roma Language Day has been recognised, and Roma throughout Europe are building their own local communities on these grounds. Unfortunately, it hasn't been the case in the last 70 years. On the trail of this respected colleague and colleague, this way I ask you to support me in order to jointly amend the decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of "poramosa, holocaust" from the National Newspaper b. 151/14. I propose that we unanimously adopt a proposal to replace the previously used name of this decision that we are discussing with the following formula: "International Day of Remembrance of the Roma victims of genocide in World War II "sadraipen". And finally let me invite you all to the World Roma Day, which will be held on 7 April at the National University Library at 9.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35182	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you to Mr. Keatazi for explaining in an eloquent, clear way the changes that need to be adopted and we fully accept them. But what I want to point out is that it's not just linguistic change and let's not just go through this House of Things like this at language level. I think we must always remember the actual deaths of the people who suffered in World War II and the Roma community was certainly one of those that was undesirable within the Nazi and fascist regimes and the space they controlled. But what is also very important is that the issue of discrimination to which the Roma community has been systematically exposed should be dealt with, of course, in every rule of law and so on in the Republic of Croatia. It's arranged, but I have to say that here's this controversy that we're exposed to because of the new National Discrimination Plan is putting us in a situation that isn't desirable. The plan prepared by the SDP, Milanovic's government finished Oreshkovic's government, so the HDZ and MOST government rejected Plenkovic's government for completely incomprehensible and inexplicable reasons. We heard that a new working group was meeting at the Foreign Ministry on Monday to prepare a new plan to combat discrimination. First of all, we don't know why in foreign affairs when the Human Rights Office is doing the job, or coordinating the whole business. Explanation. There's not enough room. If he's not in the government office, then he's in the government. So these are completely incoherent explanations. But what is dramatic is that some measures are being taken from the educational system from this action plan concerning discrimination against further groups, such as the Roma group. So here's the measure this government wants to take out of the draft plan to combat discrimination. Analysis of new textbooks in view of the legality of the fight against discrimination. That's what he wants out. It wants to prevent the inclusion of content on language, culture and tradition of national minorities and vulnerable groups in educational materials. The Roma group is one of those. It does not want to train teachers professionally on human rights, prevention, discrimination and violence and build a support system in schools for children who are victims of violence and bulling. We cannot, on the one hand, support such things in the Assembly, and on the other hand, at one system level in the country ignore them and change them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35184	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Veljak Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35185	Thank you. I fully agree with your replica, and I must tell you that members of the Roma community have only recently begun to engage in political society. We remember only earlier in 2002 when the Roma were not counted even in national minorities and so it was very difficult to involve Roma in the first place and try to solve several of their problems. Just in 2010, when members of the Roma community entered the Constitution, we had seen terrible changes, it was also shown in the elections of the Roma National Minority Council at the level of municipalities, cities and counties. Also in the elections in Parliament, i.e. in the Croatian Parliament where we experienced a very different experience because the Roma already felt that there had to be some change, and so I fully agree with you when you said that members of the Roma community have been discriminated and discriminated in all areas and on education and on housing and on employment and in all other segments. And also, I don't know how familiar you are with members of the Roma community have several programmes and these are national programmes such as the National Programmes for Roma, the National Platform, the National Strategy. And I have to tell you in all these powerful programs that the Roma are very, very tired very little seems. That's why I'm trying to get to know my colleagues in every way possible, to know the local self-government that it's high time to do something about Roma. And I personally expect, I expect from all of you and this government that we're going to start something by considering that in the 7th time we also started something, so the government of Mr. Milanovic. And I expect it to continue on that very trail, and I believe in another future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35186	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35187	Your Honor, Vice President. A colleague of Kajtazi, it is indisputable that Croatia is at the top, at the very top of its concern for its minorities, and so is the Roma minority. The Roma minority in Croatia has its own language. It was all encouraged by the Croatian state, courses were held to see health cultures with teachers from Serbia. Language courses were held with teachers from Macedonia. I would ask, Croatia pays for it all. Do we have representatives of the Roma here? We say there are Egyptian Roma, there are Indian Roma, there are Roma from Kosovo, from former Serbia, BiH, of all but there are Međimurje Roma as the most human group of Roma in Croatia. So I would also like to mention that their opinion in making this all would be necessary. Of course it'll all be stimulated, but one fact is that you were talking about, in particular, who touched me by Jasenovac. 17,000 victims of Roma in Jasenovac. The indisputable fact is that Croatia was on a side in World War II that shouldn't be too proud. However, the fact is that all these victims in Jasenovac were too high and should be subjected to one expert analysis of historians, not to the information needed about the number of deaths used by former totalitarian systems. So the fact that this 17000 killed Roma would make it into the textbooks of Croatian history, which would be financed by our Homeland Croatia again, would be another spit on the Croatian state's face.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35188	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Veljak Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35189	Your Honor, I've been thinking for a long time whether to replicate or not. But I must tell you that in this House, this is your second term, you never spoke of the role of the Roma in the Homeland War and the number of Roma defenders and Roma defense associations. On the other hand, you have grouped members of the Roma national minority with criminal records of questionable morality and violent past. Instead of working with the biggest roof Roma association, you want to mistake me by working with what I'm fighting, which is exactly stopping the negative trends in the Roma community against those who are using their communities' problems to achieve their benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35190	Thank you very much. And the next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35191	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Kajtazi. I fully support this initiative because I believe that fighting for human rights is a constant struggle and it does not stop if we truly want to achieve that wings "Never again". The more historians estimate that between 250,000 and 150,000 Roma were killed in Europe during World War II and their victim, unlike the Jewish genocide, was marginalized. And German President Roman Herzog himself said that there was absolutely no difference between the Roma and the Jewish genocide, so the same methods of systemic extermination were used, even taken to camps in the same way, and it was the same desire for the systematic extermination of Jews and Roma. That's what Roman Herzog said in '97. years in his loud interview. In general, this initiative at Croatian level is more a team than the European Parliament proposed in 2012 to mark the date for the Roma genocide. And I think the initiative is more than necessary because the general history of the Roma people is marginalized, not just the victims of World War II.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35192	The answer to the esteemed representative, Veljak Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm just taking the opportunity to thank you for your support, and I just need to draw your attention that back a few years during the research, we're coming up with a whole new data set. Given that members of the Roma community are not named after all camps as well as these other national minorities who have been brought in some way and only wagons have been numbered, so three wagons of Roma, five wagons, etc., etc. Even though we don't have the right information. But our predictions are much bigger than they are. Let's just say I'm going to give you a piece of information in Uzzica at a cemetery where we have 21 tombs and there's nearly 17,000 Roma killed there, and there's 22,000 in Auschwitz. This in itself shows that these figures are not certain that the victims are much, much larger. But given what I mentioned earlier, we only recently began to engage in a political way, and we began to engage and organise better, and I expect in the future that we will come to accurate data and that we will certainly change the picture of the Roma back 15, 10 and 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35194	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first will speak on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35195	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The topic that we are talking about today is very important because, as we managed to hear even in this brief debate right now in the House, people don't really know exactly what this is about or at least some of them don't want to know. We heard about it, for example. that the Egyptian Roma live in Croatia, these Egyptian Roma do not exist, it is a 19th-century delusion when it was thought to the Roma that because of their skin color that they are native to Africa, so the term gipts that are used today in Germany or in some countries gypsy as a descendant of the Egyptians, but they are not actually Egyptians but are native from India and they came to Croatia in two arms. One leg came through Turkey, Macedonia, Bosnia, that would be the Roma who speak a special variant of the language Romano chib, mostly Muslim faith. And the second group of Roma came through Russia, Ukraine and Romania, that would be so-called. Roma Bajashi who are Roman Catholics, so they are Roman Catholic religions. These Roma are mostly inhabited by Međimurje, inhabited by Podravina, and today make up a compact group when the Roman Catholics are mentioned, Bajashi has between 10 and 15 thousand. When it comes to the fact that Serbs hold Roma courses in Croatia, I must say that this is not true, that in the Department of Idology at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, there is one sub-cater exclusively for the Roma language in which they work, acknowledge Croatian experts of science who publish articles, publish how much I know and picture books, and I don't know if the grammar is finished, I think the grammar is already finished, so it is essentially necessary to clarify the concepts a little bit. The Roma were victims during World War II. Many peoples were victims and many nations suffered in World War II, but it is plain to say that the guilt of Roma who had no state, who had no army, who had no media, courts or police was exclusively in their skin color. So the Roma were wrapped up for racial reasons, that was all their fault. No one asked them what they were doing in life, whether they lived honestly or not, no one asked them if they were Roman Catholics, and as we can see they were, but only the color of their skin was the reason for destruction. And it was a tragedy, a terrible one, that goes alongside the tragedy of the Holocaust, so mass murder against the Jews in World War II. Since the term “holocaust ” is mainly related to the death of Jews, then it was time to crystallize a new concept of genocide over the Roma who had been named “porimos” which in fact in the literal translation would mean destruction and perhaps even be translated in some way even as devouring. So then it's done here, we heard on the initiative of MP Keatazi that it might be possible, we need to find a more precise term and in this case it's "compatible" meaning mass murder. So mass murder is literally more appropriate to describe these injuries. In the area of today’s Republic of Croatia, the Roma were mostly killed in Jasenovac and suffered from the very beginning of NDH 1941 to culmination of some of their destruction in 1942. Since Međimurje was mentioned here and I am personally from Međimurje, and if I were from Međimurje, I would also like to draw attention to that part of "self-timer" that is not known enough to the public and is not known enough to the public for reasons why Međimurje was occupied from Hungary. So it was not part of Pavelic's Croatia but was part of the restored Hungarian kingdom. At the beginning of the regime... The Hungarian regnet then did not persecute the Roma in the sense that they would be killed even though many human rights were taken from them, although they were forced into forced labour they survived the war until autumn 1944, however, 15.10. In 1944, the regime... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Hungarian Nazis came to power by the name of the shooting crosses whose president was Ferenc Szalasi and Ferenc Szalasi therefore ordered the deportation of the Roma to the concentration camps. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the deportation of Roma began on November 1, 1944, with the final destination being the Dachau concentration camp where a lot of Roma were killed and the interstate on the road was supposed to be the Commoram camp, a gathering camp located on the border of Hungary and today Slovakia. According to preliminary surveys, the Roma settlement Trnovec is one of the largest settlements in Međimurje today, all residents were deported 3. 11. In 1944 they were taken to the camp of the Chamber and were left there in view of air bombings, the inability to transport to Dachau and were left there in underground concrete bunkers to die of hunger and cold. Many Roma died in the extreme inhumane conditions, almost all children, those few survivors who returned home say that no child had returned and should therefore begin to investigate, and those victims should also set up a memorial, so far there is not one, there is a cross at the cemetery in Draskovec. And so it should set up museum bases, write articles, and probably a book that would only deal with this area. According to the available data, according to an attempted reconstruction in the village of Trnovest, 39 Roma were killed, here are their names and last names, so if I can use this opportunity to call the Republic of Croatia, representatives of the government as well as representatives of the local authorities to place a memorial in the village of Trnovec, in Međimurje, and perhaps the first in Croatia to bear the name "samadipen". The living wall will certainly support these proposed amendments to the law and we will also contribute in any other way to the Roma's death in World War II and to improving their position in the Republic of Croatia as a national minority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35196	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Veljko Kajtazi. Excuse me, first of all, distinguished representative Josko Klisovic came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35197	Thank you very much. And thank you, colleagues of Bunjc, for reminding us in his debate once again about the death of the Roma people in World War II and all its forms of discrimination that he was expelled from and when discrimination does not stop in time, it does not prevent it from ending in genocide. And that's why it's the task of all of us to make from the first moment that... Some discrimination is noticed that as a democratic society, we raise our voice loudly against it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will return to a new draft that I have not seen, only through the media have I had the opportunity to read about it, the action plan, or the National Plan for Discrimination, where some 30 measures containing the draft prepared by Milanovic and Oreshkovic's Government have been abolished. And I must note that in this draft, among other things, measures related to the Roma have been completely wiped out. So the Roma were completely expelled from the new draft of the national plan to combat discrimination on the grounds that there was not enough research to suggest their discrimination. The Roma are unfortunately everywhere in the world in most countries being treated as one vulnerable or vulnerable to a Croatian group that deserves special attention. In view of the entire heritage, the historical heritage of the relations that other dominant ethnic and national groups had in certain areas and how they treated the Roma. Well, here's what I'd like to ask you, my colleague Bunjac, given that you've made your point of thinking that it's really one hypocrisy on the one hand to mark, to ask for these days to be marked and without actually knowing what it is, without learning about historical truths in the education system of children, including those on Roma, and to add to the state documents of strategic nature that they try to throw out things that concern vulnerable groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35198	The answer of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35199	Thank you, well-respected representative Klisovic. The time of World War II is a sad time in Croatian history, but we can be proud that yet the vast majority of the Croatian people with detestation rejected the crimes committed by the Ustasha regime during World War II. As far as the situation of the Roma is concerned, he is certainly not satisfactory. So there's a need for the Roma community to get more involved in society, but you're right. It seems there's not enough political will to just push this problem under the carpet and think it's going to get rid of itself, but obviously it won't. Many say the solution to integration, but we already have Roma integrated into Croatian society in a way that they attend school, that they have all the documents, that they go to a doctor etc. However, an inclusion should be carried out, and this would mean that Roma live together in settlements with the majority population, and we now have a situation in Međimurje that 12 Roma settlements live exclusively Roma. They have been raised mostly illegally and in these settlements Croats do not live, nor do Roma live in Croatian settlements. So basically they're integrated I repeat again, but they're not fully present in all sorts of social events. On the other hand, some programmes should be seriously considered in order to make those Roma who wish to participate more strongly in Croatian society in terms of and migration, in terms of and employment, in terms of giving equal chances in education and I believe that then many of the social problems that exist today and many of the problems if we are to honestly say out of discrimination would be dealt with relatively quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35200	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Veljak Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35201	Thank you. My dear colleague, I must tell you that you have studied this very well, that you have surprised me a little pleasantly. I see you're dealing with excellent information. But there's something else I want to tell you. As a historian, I must tell you that I am very sorry for this topic that has never been discussed before and that there has been no public interest, no media, not even academic communities or historians. Last year, in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, on the occasion of the World Day of Roma Language, we also held a scientific and international scientific event where we were just discussing the loss of Roma. And we also confirmed the conclusions of the International Roma Union, etc. So that's what we did last year. But the year before that we were also in the Croatian Academy of Science and Art for the first time we talked about the Roma in general. But just because of everything you've just stated, I think we need to move as fast as we can to change it, change it in some way, and especially build this kind of memory board, etc. in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Because it's not just about the fallen Roma in Međimurje. We also have victims of Roma in Vukovar-Srijem County and in Osijek-Baranja County where research comes from day to day and we come up with such specific data. And otherwise, when I have a little time on the situation of the Roma, what you have mentioned, I fully agree that we must work all the time to ensure that the members of the Roma community at no time are not viewers, but must be involved, and that is exactly what we are not doing, but we are all looking at members of the Roma community as viewers all the time, we do not want to include them. If I were to list some of the programs that are being implemented, in fact Roma are not involved at all, neither as partners, nor as carriers, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35202	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35203	Thank you very much, Reverend Kajtazi. It's a big, big problem with the social situation in which they lived and still live a large part of Roma. So the incentive couldn't come from the Roma community. In order for the incentive to come from the Roma community, the Roma would have to have teachers and they don't have them, lawyers and they don't have them. We should have some celebrities, they don't have them either. I don't know athletes, actors, etc. They don't have the media and it's very hard to interest the majority in such a way that they pay attention to the problems of a small group. On the other hand, you have well pointed out the very important responsibility of science. It is scientists who should explore the history of the Roma and their social status whether they are historians, whether they are sociologists or social workers. And these results are presented to the public as much as possible to make the public sensitive to the problems of today's significant national minority in Croatia. On this side, we can invite institutions in the Republic of Croatia that finance scientific research to focus more resources and attention on studying the position of the Roma community because they really deserve it, they suffered very much, they suffered very much. And there are a whole series of reasons, primarily human in this 21st century and the moment when Croatia is integrated into Europe that the Roma finally get an equal position with all Croatian citizens as already achieved by many other minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35204	Thank you very much. I especially thank you all for pointing out these important things about the Roma minority, as well as fellow Bunjc who highlighted this importance of science and education and the situation at the university when we were aware that unfortunately the man who was the key to establishing the learning of the Roma language at the University of Zagreb had to go as the only academic, the professor had to retire. Obviously, our words were different than our deeds. But let's move on. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. The second August is celebrated or marked better said in memory of the Roma group, which were the last group of Roma, which was liquidated in 1944 in Auschwitz. There were 2897 in that group. Otherwise, it is not known and it is impossible to determine the number of Roma victims in World War II, and there is an approximation of 250 thousand, 500 thousand, and even a million. Why is that? That's what it's about, for example. in NDH, when Roma were brought to the Jasenovac concentration camp, they are listed neither by name nor by last name, nor by nationality, nor from where they come, simply not treated as individuals, it may be the worst form of humiliation to treat you as cattle. So it was said there were two cattle wagons of gypsies. It is therefore impossible to determine the number. Clicking on Roma died in NDH, we also have an approximation somewhere we heard 17 grand. This is also the answer to Mr. Culei who said that these victims were exaggerated in Jasenovac. You don't know, it's impossible to say whether they're exaggerated or not. It's impossible when no records were kept. Why and how did it happen to the Roma in NDH? Well, because immediately after the founding of HDH, racial laws were passed in NDH. The racial laws they were against the Serbs, against the Roma and against the Jews. They were signed by the minister of teaching and worshiping Ustasha chief Mile Budak. Today, in his honor of school, streets, squares in Croatia bear his name. Here's the talk here about the need for education, I wonder what teachers at the Mile Budak elementary school tell the students about the Roma's suffering and how they explain to them that this school of theirs is called by no one but the Ustasha chief who signed racial laws. During '42. the most in the beginning of '41. but most massively in '42. those in Croatia in NDH were shipped to Jasenovac, but the injuries were elsewhere. There in Jasenovac, the town of Ustica was called a Gypsies camp, and later the village of Gradina on the other coast of Sava, these were the places of destruction. But not the only ones, such Roma deaths sites were in the entire NDH area throughout BiH and Serbia. They didn't save them anywhere. The best way to indicate the death of the Roma was to show data from the 1948 census, 405 Roma were listed, everything else was killed. That's what it says about the proportions of this injury. It is a fact that German legislation for decades after World War II did not want to recognise the death of the Roma as part of the Holocaust, as a planned extermination, but claimed that it was actually under one criminal responsibility and in one criminal area because the Roma were killed as criminals. It took 30 years for the German judiciary to admit the death of the Roma as part of the genocide. And that's why it's important that we change this name today, because we're introducing a new name, a new name that's stronger and that means exactly what it's supposed to mean, and that's genocide. It is important that we enter this date the word genocide. That word genocide exists for other peoples, in Hebrew it is a shoah, Armenian..., Ukrainian holodomor, Arabic anpha, so the peoples who have suffered have that word and introduce it into the days of memory and therefore it is important this law. The loss of the Roma in World War II has been poorly investigated. I think a colleague of Bunjac as a historian wrote something about it, and you can see that he is ruling matter from what he was saying here at the session. Few Roma families have received compensation, very little and therefore several Roma associations have initiated one procedure in Serbia, hired lawyers to secure compensation for the victims of Roma. This process is at the beginning and we don't know how it's going to end. But what we know, we know that Croatia is also being sued for damage suffered by Croatian Serbs, Roma and Jews during World War II. The lawsuit was initiated in Chicago and the diplomatic post office was sent to the Republic of Croatia. The foreign ministry's compensation demand is 3.5 billion dollars. Our Ministry of Foreign Affairs replied in response that the complaint was not founded because the Republic of Croatia is not a follow-up of the NDH which is seen from the original foundations of the Constitution. And there our Ministry of Foreign Affairs perfectly correctly quoted the original foundations of the Constitution. But the question is, how long have we been implementing this Constitution? If, how do we implement this constitution when we call schools the name of Mile Budaka? Isn't that unconstitutional? How do we implement this constitution when according to the data that I have here and these are from 2013 RH annually for the pensions of NDH soldiers, it stands out 348 million kunas. These are members of the Ustasha army and the natives. Now how to get a Ustasha pension. The Croatian State Archives issued confirmation that someone served the Ustasha army or the locals since '41. to 45. After a full form of service to the Ustasha army, any distinctions and a brief description of the movement in the armed forces, NDH man can receive a pension. These pensions are issued from 1992 to today. Every year carried out on armed formations NDH counts as 2 years of employment. So a year of killing in Ustashas is worth two years of someone's work. It's according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia. How many pensions do we have? More than 13,000 members of Ustasha units,... body association, homeland and weapons, and members of their families receive pensions, etc. Homeland army. The Homeland Army, such a unit wasn't in World War II, it didn't exist. There were Ustashas, there were natives and there was a people's liberation army in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and of course there were Chetniks, "Nedicians", "Ljoticevics" and other criminals. And... are, therefore, members of the People's Liberation Army. Now, I don't know what these people in Chicago are gonna do but one logic says if pensions are paid to Ustasha, then I guess they should be paid back to their victims. That would be kind of a logic. We're getting showers the other day from the U.S. Embassy. It issued a statement for gathering people in black uniforms in Ban Jelačić Square. Who are these people? And listen, I don't know who they are, but if someone dresses like a Ustasha, if he thinks like a Ustasha, if he talks like a Ustasha, if he says hello like a Ustasha and then I guess he's Ustasha. They gather peacefully, are protected by the Croatian police so that someone doesn't do something to them, hurt them, get quiet, I guess their fathers, their grandfathers retire so they don't get together. There is still a memorial panel there at Jasenovac with a greeting "For Home Ready". We thus mark the victims of the Holocaust and thus mark the victims of the Roma in World War II. It's an honor. There, it doesn't just happen out there, it happens in the Parliament, our colleague Kajtazi here was the most cruelly offended on a national basis, but also by a parliamentary representative, please nicely, by a parliamentary representative and I don't know if this MP has even received a warning. It's the state of the Republic of Croatia today. The representative was elected on the HDZ list. And this HDZ did not give up or give it up. The HDZ will continue to pay these pensions as well. Now, the SDP will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal, we will vote for him, in hopes that Prime Minister Plenkovic will not establish a commission that should question the justification of this request.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35206	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. However, before only one small correction, historical, it is that the Aryan laws which were of course totally unacceptable and for the conviction were not signed by Mile Budak but Ante Pavelic. None of them signed Mile Budak. We need to speak precisely when we speak. One was signed by Minister Mirko Puk, then Minister of Justice and... But now we're going to move on the replicas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first replica is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35207	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. Crime is a crime and not one crime bigger and the other crimes smaller. Also, pensions from one regime are treated as well as pensions from another regime but I did not report for the replica, but you mentioned that the data is difficult and impossible to determine. So there is a publication by the Council of Europe that says that data vary from country to country and that in the area of the former Yugoslavia during World War II, about 100,000 Roma were registered from which 90,000 were executed and then the former Yugoslavia actually falls within the 90% extermination of Roma by the publication. For the comparison of Hungary, the same as Yugoslavia had about 100,000 Roma but about 28 thousand and a percentage were executed in Hungary's extermination of Roma according to the Council of Europe publication, only 28%. The data is really unusual, let's say Germany had 20,000 Roma in its territory according to those data before the Nazi regime. Fifteen thousand were executed. In other words, 75% compared to Yugoslavia, where ninety percent execution is indeed very important should be given at this level and should therefore be supported by this initiative. What's more important to say, let's say, Estonia, that the extermination of the Roma was almost 100%, because before the genocide there were 1,000 Roma, and 1,000 of them were killed. Here's for the record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35208	Thank you very much. The answer to the distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35209	First, we should define colleagues' concepts. I don't know what you mean by the term of the former Yugoslavia. By the name of the former Yugoslavia, it is usually considered the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, although I fully agree with you, it should not be called the former Yugoslavia, because we do not have the current Yugoslavia. Therefore, as we do not speak the former I do not know Austro-Hungarian, we do not speak the former Austro-Hungarian, there is no need to speak the former Yugoslavia. So in that former socialist Yugoslavia, there was no loss of Roma. And if you're talking about that Yugoslavia before that Yugoslavia, then we can talk about the losses of the Roma within the countries that existed then, and then there was in this territory of the Republic of Croatia and part of the territory of BiH today's NDH, and there's the death of the Roma in this list. What do we need the Council of Europe for? It was almost 100%. Because if it's '48. years written down only 405, then we can talk about total extinction, total extinction. The exact absolute numbers you're right about, we won't, but it's impossible to find out, it's impossible to find out. It's cynical to say it doesn't matter. It would be good if we could know the name of every man, his last name, that we could mark them because it's a personal injury, it's not numbers. Well, that's what the Nazis wanted to make numbers out of them, which is why they put stamps on them because they didn't care about individuality. They were a mass, one group, members of a nation, one group of ethnics that had to be eliminated. Is it 250,000, is it 500,000, is it a million? That 5 of them is terrible. But what matters is that we don't have to judge this phenomenon for the number, but for the very appearance, because someone's even thinking about killing someone else because it's not his faith, his race or his nationality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35210	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35211	Dear Vice President, Croats and Croats. If there's a synonym to lie about, then there's been a lot of lies here. Every lie had its own meaning, it had its own goal, and it was the only attack on everything that represents Croatia as a Croatian state as a human, history as a Croatian historical heritage, the truth of the last war that was brought into the Homeland War and which, some day today in this House, is trying to end us in their own interest to justify their criminal behavior in the past. Thus, even one Mile Buddha is called signatories of war laws, although he wasn't. And they don't mention his daughter Grozda raped, murdered, tired, cut, right here in Zagreb, high school. They don't remember her, and they remember that they wrongly accused her father, and that would also justify the absence of today's Grapes from our schooled Zagreb girl, the Grapes are gone. Because of the same person who slandered her and wrongly accused her in some past tense. We sit here all contemporaries and witnesses of the truth. I made you an exhibition of 2.5. Borovo Village. You did not find it appropriate to come, to look at the truth from the Homeland War because you worked against it, you worked against the interests of the Croatian state, against the interests of the defenders and you denied them at the exhibition and at the exhibition of Vukovar, you failed and you will always deny it because you are the remnants of some of the past Which we don't need in the future. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35212	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35213	I was talking about crimes in NDH and you say I attacked everything that represents Croatia. For you, perhaps these Ustashas represent Croatia, for me they never, never will. You say Mile Budak didn't sign that for me and the vice president. Now did the chief or chief sign it to me whatsoever, but the chief carried out with his heart what the chief wrote and signed because he stood by that chief, for he was his chief. We are talking here today about the sufferings of the Roma, not the injuries in Borov's Village. If we were to talk about the casualties in Borovo Selo, I assure you, I would speak equally passionately of standing up for innocent victims, but today is not a topic. And you say you're a follower of truth. What truth? Well, you've offended our fellow Keatazi here. You told him he was a Serb gypsy, here in the Croatian Parliament on my ears I heard it. You may be ashamed of yourself if you had any need to cover yourself with your ears in your head, and when a theme like this is your turn you wouldn't answer at all for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35214	The sitting replica is distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35215	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, you reminded us in your presentation of the character of the Ustasha regime and the racial laws, and rightly you say it is completely irrelevant at this time whether Mile Budak signed racial laws or not, but he was a person of great importance in the structure of that creation and as such he is responsible for the works that carried out that creation. But I would like to remind you of one fact, on 26 August 2004, the Croatian Government made a decision and this government, under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Sanader HDZ, is ruling to remove Mili Budaku's monument from St. Rok's place on the grounds that the emphasis of such a monument is contrary to the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, Sanader's government and HDZ have shown if it has the political will that it is possible, that all those insigns that oppose the constitutional order of today's Republic of Croatia can be removed. But as you mentioned in your presentation, there is still a panel in Jasenovac with insignium that is not suitable and is not in line with the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, and this is the government of Plenkovic, also the HDZ government has not removed it. I'd like your comment on that, too. Of course, when it comes to the Croatian state's betrayal, will we say that the Croatian government, under Prime Minister Sanader, betrayed the Croatian state or told lies to the Croatian people when it made the official decision to remove Mili Budaku's monument to the NDH from St. Rok's place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35216	Thank you very much. We are a little distracted from the subject which seems to me not to be the best for the topic, nor for us all together, but the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35217	Yes, Ivo Sanader ordered that the monument be removed. It seems to me that it was Francetic, not Budak, but Francetic, Budak, Pavelić anyway, anyway. It's all the same puss. Yeah, Ivo Sanader had the guts to order that monument out of the way and he was removed tomorrow morning, the backhoe was knocked down. But Plenkovic doesn't have that loop. Plenkovic's Government allows gathering in the square of Ban Jelačić, Plenkovic's Government allows "For Home Save" in the vicinity of Jasenovac and we live in the country where it is allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35218	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35219	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. This is how you would say this, no one of common sense is against Mr. Keatazi's proposal, but at the same time we live in a country where the truth of everyday rapes and where the most bloody war in history is hidden between the two horns of the same devil. It's Bolshevik Satanism and Nazism, fascism, etc. Every nation has its own path of sadness and memory, also Roma, and also Croats. What are you not talking about? Class genocide. He mentioned Mr. Stazić's holodomor, who heard about the holodour in Croatia, a glademore where at least 4.5 million Ukrainian peasants were killed, collectively, etc. This is where the confiscation happened. The South is the only country communist since World War II outside the Soviet Union to perform where rural riots have been, etc. On the subject of monuments, you have in the city of Zagreb the street of the government of Ranogajci who led threes where hundreds and hundreds of people were killed without conviction, only one goal to take away their property. We speak here... now, who has the right to teach the Croatian people lessons? The colonial forces that killed millions of people outside of the 19th century. No one has the right to lecture. When they get here, let them learn something about this country. Partisan pensions, how many partisan pensions does he have? How many times have there been people who have performed over the Croatian people aristocid, democid, class genocide, etc. They live here all over town, they move into other people's apartments these 40,000 after the war where people were killed. There are hundreds of thousands of Croats killed by our 21st Bienick neighbor that's hundreds of thousands... one who knows the name of one? Who knows the name of Viktor Zivić who translated the Croatian-French dictionary? This is a good thing that Mr. Kajtazi says, and until every victim's name is known and who committed crimes against the Croatian people This is why this commission needs to be formed as quickly as possible, not with those who were part of that criminal regime. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, fellow Glasnović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35220	I appeal to everyone to concentrate on this bill. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35221	Well, first of all, holodome. Well Croatian Parliament, this Croatian Parliament passed a law on the marking of holodome, only you don't know as much as you normally know little about anything. So that's what the Croatian Parliament brought. [[Please don't throw it out of the bench, please.]] You have no idea. When it comes to partisan pensions... I will now break this response to the replica in protest against such uncivilized precisely dirty behavior. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Please don't throw.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35222	Please, I'm asking you nicely. It really doesn't make sense to turn it into a chair throw now. It is not acceptable and is not a way of parliamentaryism. Here's a colleague of Bunjac's picked up a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35223	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 236 of the Rules of Procedure has been broken where the representative of Stazic was insulted. I think you should have made a note to MP Glasnovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35224	I also warned MP Glasnovic. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35225	Thank you, Vice President. Sir, I'm going to run. I can't be surprised that you've been here for 16 years and you've been saying something that is against today's Croatian state and peoples of Croatia. You keep going back to the same topic, which is the constitution we know is condemned and we don't want to discuss it anymore. I fully support the Roma and regret every genocide that was made over any nation, but it was done on the Croatian people after '45. hundreds of thousands of Croats have been killed. You've never condemned it, and you've always defended it. You're talking about Ustasha pensions, let's get back to communist pensions, $28,000, and I guess communist pensions pay off today and keep your mouth shut. You didn't go to Bor's village to see that Chetnik's grave and Mausoleum stands and doesn't object to it. I'd like us to rebel against everything, not just one thing. You're just destined to tear down this country's height in any way. If 20 people are on the questionnaire, I'd like to check them out, what you're saying is they're Ustasha and you'll probably say about me and all the other people in Croatia who live and you never said how much it is, what should be done in this Homeland War, as much as anyone should be convicted, attack those same people who attacked us. To forgive honest people, I want and you constantly refer to it we are all Ustashas in Croatia. No matter when we defend our country fair and square. Since you haven't been embarrassed so many years to say the same thing, I... days, you have at least 15 times talked about the Croatian state that it is wrong and that nothing is wrong with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And enjoy living in Croatia, you get the same salary and everything else you need, you have never done anything with sweat like the Croatian people without saying about the genocide and the marshal Tito who made, who has a criminal and square in the Croatian state and which you explicitly defend.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35226	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35227	First, I never said that we are all in Croatia Ustasha, I certainly am not but there are those who are, do you belong to them to decide for yourselves. You say communist pensions, no communist pensions, it simply doesn't exist in Croatia, there are pensions of members of the People's Liberation Movement and members of the People's Liberation Fight, and they weren't all communists, no matter what you say, means you talk at least. The communists have no basis in this country's pension. You're simply misleading the public so you might turn out to be effective. And when you don't, when you can't listen to the arguments, then like Glasovic, you throw it out of the bench because they haven't taught you to behave properly at home. So I'm inviting you to, uh... Here you go again and again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I invite you well when you have not already been taught at home, that I may teach you that when you speak others listen, when others speak, then you listen to them. In particular, you have to listen to the arguments that come to your ears not only but also to your brain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35228	The next replica is the esteemed representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35229	Thank you. I just wanted to draw attention to the data of distinguished colleagues that you mentioned that only after World War II, there were only 405 Roma,..., there were as many of them today, according to the census of the population as close to 17 thousand, this in itself shows after 70 and several years that there was still a fear of declaration at Roma. Although we all know that members of the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia have between 38 and 44 thousand. Yet, lately Roma have started changing names and last names just to exercise certain rights. Here will soon be as safe as every year for 3 weekends at 4 months marking the jasenovian breakthrough, I don't know if you've met that almost every year I'm on the mark. And also in the jasenic breach of the data we're processing, there wasn't a single Roma. And on August 2nd, we're just marking because one night in Auschwitz, nearly 3,000 Roma were killed. And when you mentioned Mile Budak, I have one proposal, all the streets, all the squares and all the schools to be renamed to the fallen Roma who died during World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35230	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative of Stazic. I'll start with this last one, your proposal is truly commendable but it depends on the parliamentary majority, if it were up to me, it would be implemented tomorrow because such a law would come to this House tomorrow. But with this parliamentary majority and a prime minister like this, I'm afraid this proposal of yours will not come upon fertile soil. What you said at the beginning that Roma today are afraid to plead as Roma is terrifying. It's the most controversial fact I've ever heard in the debate, nothing more devastating than that because there are such periods in history, there are such periods of evil, but then such periods of evil should be condemned, they need to be crossed to open new perspectives, to come up with new green fields. But if Roma are afraid to say that Roma are still in the Republic of Croatia, then it becomes clear to me why it is. Because we have "For Home Ready" in Jasenovac on board, so people are afraid, because we have the kind of debate that Misic and Glasovic have in Parliament. That's why they're afraid. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak. I'm asking all my colleagues and colleagues to stick to the subject. I know it's a pre-election period, that local elections but we don't have to enter, we don't have to go back. I think we've recently achieved a level of communication that was better than before, and I'm afraid now we're going back and I don't think it makes any sense what's going on. But I also appeal to everyone that we're really talking about this topic, about this topic, about the next topic, not going back to the past with a lot of passion and a lot of I would say and sometimes inaccuracy. Here's my colleague, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35231	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will also support the proposal for a decision to amend the decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of Porajmos, a Holocaust marked on 2 August, in the manner proposed and formulated by my proposal, and explained by Parliament's representative, Veljko Kajtazi. As you know, as already said on several occasions, the Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of the National Minority Club, adopted the proposal for a decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of Porajmos, the Holocaust, which has since been marked in Croatia on 2 August just as the day of memory of all Roma killed in World War II and in the text of the existing decision, is also already explained using the term Porajmos, which the Roma community used as a concept marking the death of Roma during World War II. As the promoter explained by representatives of the Roma community from all over the world to 9. The Congress of the International Roma Union held in Riga on 20 August 2015 agreed with the view that the concept of Porajmos and its other variants used need to be replaced by a more precise and appropriate concept of Sumadaripen and this post is confirmed even at a series of meetings that followed the International Scientific Assembly on the occasion of the World Day of Roma Language held from 3rd to 6th November 2016 in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in Zagreb. And therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, as I have already stressed, will support the proposal to be in the name and point 1. Decisions declaring the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of Porajmos, the Holocaust marking the 2nd August words of Porajmos, the Holocaust replacing the words of genocide in World War II, Sumadaripen. I would also take the opportunity to remind myself once again that the International Day of Remembrance of the Roma victims of genocide is memorialized on August 2nd as a memory of all the Roma who died in World War II, and this date was elected in the memory of 1944 when 2897 Roma were killed in a Nazi camp in Auschwitz only one day. The European Parliament adopted this date in April 2015 by adopting a Resolution on Anticiganism in Europe that recognised the Day of Remembrance of the Genocide of Roma in World War II and at EU level. And as we know in Croatia on 2 August, it has been marked since 2012 and is commemorated at the Roma cemetery in the village of Uštica, which is now part of the memory of the Jasenovac area. It has already been mentioned on several occasions, I will still repeat it once more because it deserves repetition. During the NDH and World War II, the village of Uštica was a sort of lobby of the Jasenovac concentration camp, where the deported Roma were brought, and many of them were already liquidated in Ustica, not getting to Jasenovac, where the deportation was covered by the entire Roma families and the entire Roma settlements were emptied, both thoroughly and without exceptions, and unlike others, when taken to Jasenovac Roma were not included in the lists but counted on wagons. And that is why today it is difficult to reconstruct the exact number of Roma killed in Jasenovac and not only in Jasenovac, but also Uštica, but also in other sites. However, what we have available today, therefore data stored and preserved in numerous archive and other institutions clearly and unequivocally prove that it was not individual cases, but rather the planned and physical extermination of an entire nation. According to the data we have today, the name list of victims that was made after World War II in the Jasenovac concentration camp numbered 16173 killed persons of Roma nationality, of which 5678 men, 4870 women and 5608 children. There are 21 tombs in the village of Uštica today. I would like to stress that the commemoration of genocide against the Roma is important above all in order to correct the historical injustice against the Roma who were as a people a collective victim of genocide that was committed against them, but also because of memories of cruelty and madness of past times precisely because they would not return in a similar or otherwise form. And I am therefore taking this opportunity to express my deep respect for the sacrifice suffered by the Roma people in the Second World War in both Croatia and European terms on behalf of all representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community club. We are aware that the past of the Roma people in Croatia cannot be changed. However, we can create the foundations for the future of the Roma people who, during historical migrations, have tried to adapt to opportunities in the face of many cultures, at the same time preserve the specifics of their own identity, but also find their place in the community of European and world nations. And therefore, the future of Roma as a socially dynamic and respectable community within the Croatian Corps should be based on respecting their constitutional and legal position as one of the indigenous national minorities in Croatia, as well as on the continued improvement of their social economic position, and according to the achievement of the social role within the Croatian society that Roma as a respectable minority community in Croatia truly deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35232	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35233	Thank you very much, Vice President. ... Excuse me. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I wanted to thank my colleague, Bedekovic, who seemed to me to be a confident person in the need to protect human rights and combat discrimination expressed the position of HDZ. What you were saying, and I can say that I fully agree and what I would like and ask you to advocate as a member of the government's party, that these 30 measures to combat discrimination that are trying to erase in the new draft national plan to combat discrimination are returned. Some of these measures also refer to the Roma minority as a vulnerable group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35234	Thank you. Reply to the distinguished representative Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35235	Dear colleague, here's a thank you. I have actually mastered and doctored in the area of intercultural pedagogy, a narrow area of education of minority communities so that this topic and problem is quite familiar to me. As for the National Plan for the Prevention of Discrimination and all these provisions and measures, the public debate has said its, so the data has been said and I must say that the national plan does not only apply to the Roma population but also to all the other vulnerable and discriminated groups in society and will certainly, therefore, be the subject of a draft draft draft, so Roma will certainly find their place in this plan, but I am stressing on the basis of current indicators, based on research conducted and on the current situation in the Roma community today. And as I said, the Roma community is a socially very dynamic community and sometimes it's not too easy. I will not say that it is difficult, but it is not too easy to get accurate and real data about the current situation, but in any case, of course the Government of the Republic of Roma is trying to give the place that as an autochton, Roma are our indigenous national minority mentioned in 1362 in Croatia for the first time in records in the Dubrovnik area, fellow Katezi knows very well. In particular, I place a special emphasis on all the elements in which the Croatian state is working to provide the very Roma population with the best possible quality education. And what Bunjac said, not only is inclusion in the education system but inclusion in the full sense of that word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35236	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Boris Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35237	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are in the debate and in the very presentation of fellow Keatazi we have heard a lot of... data, some of them I will repeat. The fact is that on the initiative of a number of Roma organisations, the Council of Europe recognized and supported their initiative to recognise the International Day of Remembrance of Roma Holocaust victims, and here it is now proposed to replace the term with the term genocide. The genocide or loss of Roma has affected most of Europe. The exact number will probably never be determined. In the Nazi concentration camp, Auschwitz killed tens of thousands of Roma, and that tragic event on the night of August 2nd when the last group of Roma were killed in that terrible camp, 2897 was taken as an event to mark itself as the International Day of Remembrance of Roma Victims. Unfortunately, in the area of today's Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War, a Ustasha regime was established that along with Nazi Germany passed racial laws that allowed and legalized between the other and the persecution of the Roma. Roma persecution began somewhere in July of '42. when the deportation of Roma began from the area of the so-called NDH to Jasenovac. Unlike most other prisoners who were seduced under their name, the Roma were not identified or identified by name but by the number of wagons brought to the camp. The Roma were the lowest ranked on a racial Aryan scale, so unlike other victims, they had no right to their own name but were killed namelessly. At first, the camp was situated in the village of Ustica, which was called a Gypsies camp, and were later moved to the village of Gradina on the other coast of the Sava River where they were also mass-killed. The Jasenovac Memorial Institute has named more than 16 thousand victims of the Roma people so far, and what is most regrettable is that over 5600 of that number are unfortunately children. Now we have gatherings every year where numerous Roma, many Roma organizations, as friends of the Roma community, gather at the Roma cemetery of Ustice, honoring the innocent victims of this terrible camp. By adopting a decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims, the Croatian Parliament ranks the Republic of Croatia in the ranks of countries with which the sad pitet honors innocent victims of Roma nationality. This decision is also one strong message that all the victims of genocide are well-commited and that at the same time and in every place we are suppressing the most unsuspecting trail of every racism and exclusion. Because the Roma were proportional to the number of their communities with huge casualties and theirs, and the only reason for that loss was their origin and their way of life. Unfortunately, this drink is only in Jasenovac. It was marred by the call "For Home Ready" under which the Roma were killed in Ustika. I would therefore like to remind you that the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, the conclusions reached at the session held on 13 and 14 December last year, which concluded that this call offends victims of the Ustasha camp Jasenovac and victims of the Ustasha regime. In addition, the Committee called on the competent authorities to take necessary actions to protect the dignity of victims and memories of them, especially in places such as Jasenovac. And as a third conclusion, the Committee called on the government of the Republic of Croatia to establish assumptions for an institutional legal framework within which to address the issues of symbols of all criminal totalitarian regimes and to protect the integrity of their victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35238	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35239	Representative Milosevic, the proposal of fellow Kajtazi is something of a civilizational reach and I consider it a very good proposal for all victims in this case to be Roma victims. And all totalitarian regimes should be condemned and all victims bowed down. In democratic Croatia, this is an example with exceptions. We must value all national minorities, they are wealth. On your part, however, when you refer to totalitarian regimes that should be condemned because we condemn them all, precisely because of these victims, in this case we talked about the Roma, however, but the case in which the envoy of Chetnik Vukic, he is the declared Chetnik, who comes to the reception on Orthodox Christmas and where he calls on, worse than Milosevic in the 90th year, to defend Serbs with all funds in the Republic of Croatia. I live with Serbs, Serbian nationalities, people, no one... even the honorable people who were defenders, leave their community down where we live the great pain, I'm proud of those people. But you're quiet here. I don't know why you keep your mouth shut when the envoy of Chetnik Vukic, I didn't call the man a Chetnik, but he was a Chešelj Chetnik and he slaughtered Croatia, he called for great Serbia, these are facts. So when you call one side, don't insult the other. So you should condemn everything that's wrong, what he's done, I'd ask you to judge these examples. And this example of Mr. Keatazi and all the victims of totalitarian regimes. Here we are today in... the area... The year is the anniversary of the victims of Nazism where a thousand and a half people were killed by Nazis, Prince Eugen... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should bow down to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the victim's victim is a victim and the crime is a crime no matter who made it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35240	Thank you. The response of the distinguished Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35241	Dear colleague Bulj, I believe we all in this Chamber agree and as far as I can see, all the clubs have so far supported the proposal of our distinguished colleague Keatazi and we have all condemned the crime that has taken place and we all agree that every crime should be condemned and that the victim is a victim of a crime. I hope I didn't offend anyone in my presentation as you said, if I offended myself, but I don't think I offended anyone in the presentation but that I was talking about the subject, so I was talking about Mr. Keatazi's proposal, I was talking about the fact that it suffered during the Ustasha regime more than 16 thousand Roma as it determined the mention of the area in public... mentioning the area in Jasenovac, so I wasn't talking about other victims, other regimes and other killings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35242	Thank you. And the last Club of Representatives is that of HNS, HSU on behalf of which will speak distinguished representative Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35243	I'd like to thank the Vice President, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here is also on behalf of the HNS and HSU club, we would like to look back on this topic today and support the proposal for a decision to declare an international day of memory of Roma victims and to rename the name to, instead of "porume" in "compatible". Personally, I must say that I consider World War II to be one of mankind's enormous shames as well as any other conflict and any other conflict that happens in that way. When we talk about World War II and the Roma, life has been lost according to data that have, of course, not been verified until the end and are not possibly listed at least 500 thousand Roma. What is particularly worrying and which gives one special dehumanization and in some way atrocity is the fact that the Roma who brought them to the camps did not identify them by name at all and did not lead them by names, but only marked them by the numbers of wagons with which they brought them to these camps, which is indeed, apart from the atrocities themselves, an additional humiliation and further undoing their personality. I think we should honor history. We need to be aware of all the horrors that have been happening in history, that we are learning from mistakes, that such things are no longer happening, that we are more tolerated, that there are no other things going on, that unfortunately, in today's day, any conflict, the emphasis of nationalisms, and so on. What I am proud of is that Croatia was the third country to declare the International Day of Remembrance of the Roma victims of the Holocaust. And here's today, I'm glad to see you talking today about changing your mind. A little while when I was asking questions about the change of decision, which led to a change of concept from Porajmos to Sumadaripen, I was given an explanation that the research at the time was probably done by people whose Roma language was not innate but who taught it, and they were not fully familiar with the meaning of those words. So we definitely support that word that truly marks this tragedy is put into our decision on the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust of the Roma Victims. Speaking of Roma today, I would also like to warn you of their current state of affairs. Recently, the EU's Fundamental Rights Agency was doing a survey involving Roma in the Republic of Croatia and the results of this survey were that 80% of Roma involved in the survey were at risk of poverty. Every third person tested lives in a waterless household, every third Roma child goes hungry to sleep at least once a month, and I think it's a report that this research has shown terribly disturbing and I can't believe it's a fact in the 21st century that we live in. As far as research is concerned, Croatia, which has been singled out, reports that 50% of Roma surveyed have been discriminated over the past 5 years either in their job search or in the work they are already doing, whether in search of housing, trying to reach health care or in the field of education. Here's what I think we really need to learn from history, we should honor all the victims that happened no matter what totalitarian regimes were involved, and let's not let history ever happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35244	Thank you very much. We've got a last minute down the line, but he's the first respected representative of Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35245	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, that this isn't really a replica, but on behalf of the club, I just want to say that we all support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35246	Thank you. Next up is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35247	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I couldn't help but react. Because I've come up with some documents that are French, and it's about the Roma population. The Roma in Croatia are not at risk in the way that is often spoken by the Croatian people here, but existentially as the majority of the Croatian people. But I'm going to read a memo as a contribution to this debate. The World Organisation of Roma in the fight against discrimination, racism and poverty is a signator of... President of the same association, which he wrote to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the hands of the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic 18.1.2017. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] "The Honorable Prime Minister on behalf of my parents who, as gypsies and Roma, survived the Holocaust in Jasenovac, I have a request while they are still alive to receive them in your office to inform you of their discrimination and segregation only because the gypsies and live in another camp, existentially of course Kosnica near Velika Gorica where they were housed by the Centre for Social Care and the City. Fortunately, they're both still alive and 87 years old. They are fed up with political bickering, the Pupovec Serbs, the Jews, and the individual Roma represented by their representative, of course, the gentleman who reports every year plagiaristic and false messages about the Roma who were killed in Jasenovac. He didn't suffer a chicken, he lives well at the expense of this country of Croatia as well as his friends. My parents can tell you a lot about the real injuries in Jasenovac, and all those false leaders who are raising propaganda about the injured Serbs and other peoples. Explain that most Roma were executed in that unfortunate Jasenovac. The Roma are tolerated and do not lift their hand against our Croatia, because we are natives and love the foundations of our beautiful. So we ask you once again to receive them, for the next occasion may be no more when the dear God takes them. I thank you for your attention and we look forward to your call." Talk about... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] minorities in Croatia today are extremely inappropriate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35248	Thank you. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35249	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Pooh. I'm glad you mentioned that research, and I personally think that research is very important, and we've heard from colleagues from Keatazi that there are few and that they are actually insufficient. This is one survey involving 11 countries, including Croatia. And I read it the other day when I saw this was a theme. And what you didn't actually mention because you only made some details, is that only 50% of the Roma live in Croatia today in conditions where they have no water supply, no basic living conditions, and that's not a mistake for Croatia and it's not a mistake for them because Roma, but indeed, the existential issue of Roma is similar in other 11 countries, and there are very little differences. And only 15% of Roma unfortunately finishes compulsory education. But we can see even from this debate that on the one hand there is a verbal condemnation of crime, including this genocide against the Roma of the Second World War, which is marginalized. But we need to ask ourselves, from this debate, is it really such a true concept, or does it just stay on verbal condemnation?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35250	Thank you very much. Answer to the distinguished representative of Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35251	I agree with you colleagues that you need as much research as possible and as much field work related to both history and current conditions as possible. Well, yeah, I just pulled up some let's say the most important things that seemed to me from that research. What I'm stuck with is, let's say the EU is 41% in Croatia, so it's not even that big a difference in the situation of the Roma in Croatia and the EU. My mantra that I'm talking about every day and trying to spend it, if we're gonna be quiet and if we don't talk about the problems that are coming up, I'm sure nothing's gonna change. If we talk about this every day, if we talk about the topic and position of the current Roma as often as possible, and recently we have had the position of peer violence and anything, if we talk to only one person more with some step, if we come to some new action, I think that every speech is worth it and that we need as much as possible and as often as possible to warn about everything that is unfortunately happening around us, and it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35252	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35253	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Puh. Here's today we mentioned some research on child poverty. It is an incorrect claim that the issue of national minorities in Croatia is a matter of social status. That question is a little more complex than how much someone has received, how someone has property. The fact is that among the Roma population is a large number of those who try to change their last name or have already changed it. According to their own testimony, Ososh and Kalanjoš should not report to a job competition at all, that they have been eliminated in advance, and then people try to change their last name and that is the fact that among Roma, there is a widespread phenomenon. So it's not just about social status. And as for equal chances, research also seems to show that just in preschool education Roma children lose behind other children, and there should be more important steps to take, these children to include more in kindergartens, small schools, and also to include their parents. I believe that through then further education through primary and secondary schools, much better results would be achieved and that in fact the Roma community itself could be better able to fight for its position in society than they do now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35254	Thank you very much. The answer of Honorable Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35255	Well, here I am extremely intimidated and concerned by the fact that someone in the 21st century in Croatia is somehow forced to change their name or anything about themselves. I think the time has come for us all to be who we are, that no one is judging us for it and that's why we're not being discriminated against. It is definitely time to understand the differences between people, whether they were differences in the national minority or any other minority, and I hope that here will soon come a time when Roma too proudly will be able to come looking for a job, say their real name, and that it will not cause a negative reaction on the other hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35256	Thank you very much. Is there anything else the promoter would like to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35257	Here at the end, I'd like to thank you all for your participation. In one part, we're a little off topic, but I think in these almost two hours, I think it's been a good thing, given that we don't often talk in the Parliament about the terms and lives of members of the Roma national minority, and I think this was a unique opportunity to devote a little bit. But I would also like it if we could get all of our discussions and discussions that were during the session, not only to be inside but to apply them a little at local or national level. I also call on and hope that one of our sessions may most likely be on Friday, I would like to have all the suggestions we have so far had they been unanimous and I expect and I hope that all of you will vote unanimously and this proposal will be voted on by me. Here, thank you, cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35258	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote of course when the conditions are met. He'll be forwarded. Before we go to the vote on the debated points, I would just like to introduce you to one notice, which is that on Tuesday 4 April here in the Parliament of Josip Šokčević, the Little Councilwoman with the beginning at 11.00 p.m. will mark the 8th annual membership of the Republic of NATO and, of course, all MPs are invited to increase the ceremony at which the presence will address, including the chairman of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Mr Paolo Alli. Please confirm your presence for the reservation of the seat in Josip Šokčević's hall in the secretariat of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly so that someone will not be left without a seat because, of course, parliamentary representatives must and have a championship. That's it. And now we'd move on to the vote on the debated points. The first is the proposal for a decision to amend the decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of Porajmos Holocaust, which marks August 2nd. The applicant is a representative of Veljko Kajtazi. The debate is closed. The proposer has submitted an amendment that has become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the First Proposal for a Decision amending the decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of the Holocaust Porajmos, which is marked on 2 August. Please engage. Let's take a look at the quorum first. The quorum seems to have us. Can we get the numbers? Yeah, 112 of us are present, so the quorum is here. Please vote on the motion for a decision to amend the decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma Victims. The vote is over. Of 112, 112 is for, none abstentions, none against. I find that a unanimous decision has been made to amend the decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of the Roma victims of the Porajmos Holocaust, which marks August 2nd as suggested by Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. First of all, I would like to point out that the Government accepts the amendment of the Committee on the grounds that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, it is necessary for the amendments to the Law on Administrative Disputes to enter into force on 1.4 this year. So the amendment went after the transitional and final provisions to state that the law would enter into force on the first day after the publication in the National Journal. As far as law intervention is concerned, they're not big. Therefore, it is again a matter of harmonising the Constitutional Court with regard to the costs of the administrative dispute itself. Therefore, these amendments suggest that the administrative dispute on costs is considered invaluable and that any action in the process will cost 2.5 thousand kuna. The second intervention relates to the alignment with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is intervened in such a way that in administrative disputes where the Prosecutor is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the same has the authority to authorise the authorised person of the relevant Ministry of State Administration to represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35262	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Club of Representatives Life of the Wall and SNAGA should speak to the distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35263	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As an introduction to the debate, I will first of all note that the latest amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes were nominated in 2014 and that today's Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes is the fourth amendment in a row. As of 28 September 2014, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has tasked the Ministry of Justice to draw up a proposal for an amendment to Article 20. The Law on Administrative Disputes also provides for cases where the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a defendant in the administrative dispute and for the taking of actions in the administrative dispute may be authorised by an official person of a particular ministry or another central body of the state administration from whose part is the subject of the administrative dispute. In the light of the solution made so far, only for the defendants of the proceedings in the administrative dispute could the officials of the public legal authority who had made or failed to make a decision have acted or failed to act, or the official of the public legal authority whose decision was confirmed... by a decision and by another person designated by the regulations on the internal organisation of the public legal authority and for the taking of actions in the dispute, the Head of the Public Legal Authority was able to authorise the other official person of that body. And the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies under the authority of the heads of state could represent the state's attorney. This proposal therefore provides for clearer and concrete powers when taking action in the administrative dispute in case the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a defendant in the administrative dispute. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be allowed to, in the event that the defendant is in a administrative dispute to take action in the administrative dispute of power, now the official person of a particular ministry or of another central body of the state administration from whose part is the subject of the administrative dispute. Furthermore, this bill respected the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia as of 27 September 2016, National No. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 79(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 79(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on Administrative Disputes and decreed that it would cease to apply on 31 March 2017. With this in mind this bill of law and we are discussing it in an emergency procedure. In fact, the administrative dispute is a control mechanism for state and public legal authorities, which in a large number of cases can significantly restrict or abolish the constitutional rights of citizens, for example. economic and building inspection procedures,... And so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the administrative dispute in respect of the effects it may have on the exercise and protection of the rights and legal interests of citizens can be equated and compared with a litigation or criminal procedure and its costs may be a great burden for the prosecutor who, by the illegal work of the administration, has been caused in addition to its... The Constitutional Court found that the right to access the court was not absolute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is subject to restrictions to awakening that, by its very nature, requires the regulation of a state that has a certain freedom of assessment in this matter. These restrictions, however, must not reduce access to the court in such a way or to such a measure that it violates the very essence of the right to the court. The new regulation also addresses the issue of administrative dispute costs by prescribing... the costs of the dispute and how the parties and to whom these costs are paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these legal arrangements propose rules similar to those in the litigation procedure that each party itself previously settles the costs incurred by its own actions but the party who loses the dispute is obliged to settle all costs of the dispute. It is equally prescribed that if the party partially succeeds in the dispute, the court may, given the success achieved, determine that each party is dreaming of its own costs or that the costs are allocated relatively to the success of the dispute. Following all the new regulation, the question of the costs of the administrative dispute, which loses the dispute, is fully borne by all costs and is equally prescribed that the value of the administrative dispute is considered invaluable. On the basis of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes with the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35264	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, a number of colleagues who have submitted their applications have dropped out so that I can conclude the debate on this point. And we'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item should have been the Proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of People with intellectual difficulties but we are asked by the promoters to move it because of other obligations. I will ask everyone, colleagues, not to apply for a discussion if they do not intend to discuss it because it is very difficult to plan a session if we do not, if we do not know how many colleagues will discuss it. I mean, here we go this time, a couple of times that's already happened. A whole series of colleagues signed up for some of their reasons, and then pulled out at the last minute of their application or just didn't show up here. So we have a situation that here, now we're going to take a break completely unnecessary because an hour more of the break we're going to have, simply because some colleagues are irresponsible actually applying or not showing up at all. Thank you very much. The extension is in three hours with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways, first reading, P.Z.E., pardon not the final proposal but the first reading, P.Z.E. No. 107. It's 12.35 o'clock. The next item is the Final Proposal of the Act on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on Administrative Disputes, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 112. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was filed by the Justice Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the proposed amendment and became an integral part of the final draft law. Therefore, I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. 111 votes for, 2 against, no one abstention. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Agreements, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35266	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Agenda item: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, first reading, P.Z.E. 107 Proposing the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The materials were delivered to you in boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You also received reports at the session. Is it possible that the proposaler's representative would like to give an additional explanation? Here you go. Dear Secretary of State Mr Tomislav Mihotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35267	...we appreciate the MPs of Parliament. This is about amending 14 articles of the Law on Railways and adding two new articles. This is all due to the harmonisation of Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway area. Based on the European Commission's question in the context of the EU pilot's disagreement with national measures. These ten amendments to the article relate to the exemption from the application of the law of a certain provision shall not apply to private-owned infrastructure exclusively used by its owner for the carriage of its own cargo. The definition of railway infrastructure which has defined legal status is deleted so far, and legal status is now set out in a specific article. The definition of industrial colossus is changed, the determination of its legal status is deleted. It is determined that all interested railway undertakings can use rail infrastructure on equal terms. The concept relating to the specific type of maintenance of railway vehicles shall be harmonised. The obligation of the infrastructure manager to cooperate with other infrastructure managers with regard to the compensation system for the provision of rail transport services crossing more than one infrastructure network within the EU shall be determined. The obligation of the infrastructure manager to respond shall be determined within a specified time limit to the requirement for individual train routes. The obligation of a business plan and the keeping of a register of assets of an infrastructure manager shall be determined. It is determined that the railway undertaking is entitled to access the railway infrastructure for the provision of international passenger transport services involving cabotage and access to service facilities, provided that the regulatory authority determines whether the basic objective of the passenger transport service is located between stations located in different Member States, with a view to regulating land-book relations and enabling the application of the project and withdrawal of financial resources from eu funds. Provisions on the property relations of railway infrastructure are amended. The amendment of one article and the addition of two articles determines that the construction of modernisation, reconstruction and maintenance of railway infrastructure is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in which the extradition procedures are subject to enforcement rules. It is determined that properties that have become owned by the Republic of Croatia by means of legal work or other legal act, and the location permit provides for an inalienable ownership of the Republic of Croatia as a railway infrastructure. The legal status of railway infrastructure as a public goods in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia in the prohibition of alienation and acquisition of real rights with the possibility of establishing the right of service and the right to build with a view to financial consolidation is determined by the provision that the amount of compensation shall be paid up to the maximum amount provided for in the national budget for each year for that purpose. The provision remains that the compensation for the financing of the railway infrastructure is paid per litre of charged excise duties on energy of €0.20 at the expense of the infrastructure manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35268	I would like to thank Mr Tomislav Mihotic, the esteemed Secretary of State for this additional explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? There's no one here. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35269	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the secretary of state quite comprehensively explained the reasons and motives of the amendment of these legal provisions, so I will try to explain briefly some of either from my point of view or the angle of the Club of Representatives of MOST explain some of the changes proposed by this legislative proposal. But first of all, let me say that the MOST Club will support these legal changes. Someone once said one philosopher seemed to tell me, fate draws those who actually lead those who will, and draws those who won't. So, here it is already said in the introduction that this is done solely because it is further implementation, so European Union rules with domestic legislation. So, in particular, Directive 2012/34. Note, the European Commission has provided the EU pilot with specific issues in relation to the non-compliance of national measures with this Directive. On the basis of the examination of the relevant provisions, it has been established that it is necessary to amend the existing Law on Railways with a view to full compliance with the provisions of Directive 2012/34. In relation to the existing Law on Railways, the provisions relating to the exemption from the application of the Law on the Private Property Infrastructure of the Railways Act have been amended. Therefore, as regards Article 2 of this Act, certain items are deleted. In view of the non-compliance with the definition of railway infrastructure set out in Article 3 of the Directive that railway infrastructure constitutes elements and as set out in Annex 1 to the Directive. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Railways does not recognise the concept of an industrial track, but only a track for private use or rail infrastructure. What is extremely important and is related to the EU funds, so in accordance with Article 4, this article provides that the construction, modernisation, restoration and maintenance of the railway is in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and determines that proof of the right to build railway infrastructure is considered a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia or a call for a provision of a regulation which determines the interest of the Republic of Croatia in building buildings. Furthermore, the proposal for extradition for the construction, modernisation, reconstruction and maintenance of rail infrastructure is prescribed in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, submitted by the infrastructure manager. The proposed solution set out in accordance with the Construction Act and the project implementation needs, since almost 50% of the rail network in the Republic of Croatia relates to railways that are important for international transport. The burden is placed on projects whose co-financing is foreseen for the most part from the EU funds and, given the above, it is necessary to ensure timely implementation of project activities. So this solution is extremely important because of the rapid preparation of EU-funded projects. What needs to be highlighted is also related to the business plan, so the infrastructure manager brings a business plan including investment and financing programmes. The plan must ensure optimal and efficient use, provision and development of infrastructure by ensuring financial balance and means to achieve these objectives. What may be now again, and I say, that is the last time we discussed amendments to the Law on Roads and here are representatives of the Ministry of Transport, it would be better if they were representatives of the Ministry of Finance because it is certain that the representatives of the Ministry of Transport are not exactly, I am not personally satisfied, I believe they are not also related to Article 9 which the Secretary of State mentioned. It shall be accompanied by Article 21 and by a valid law on railways with a provision that the maximum amount of compensation for the financing of the infrastructure manager to be paid from the State budget per litre of chargeable excise duties for energy in the amount of 20 June shall be paid up to the maximum amount provided for that purpose in the national budget for each year. So if more money is collected then it won't, of course it's not clear to me what if it is, if it's supposed to be more and less, will the funds come? If it's at the height of the budget then yes. Article 10 speaks of, fair, non-discriminatory and transparent conditions actually accessing railway infrastructure. It is therefore correctly established that the regulatory authority determines, on the basis of the request, the competence of the body or interested railway undertakings, whether the main purpose of the service is to transport passengers between stations located in different Member States by means of measures taken by the European Commission. Until the existing law on railways found that the regulatory authority had made a decision on the basis of a request but on its own. It is also part of the existing Law on Railways which determines that the introduction of new, open access to services by international transport of passengers involving cabotage must not be used to open the market for domestic passenger transport services because it is assessed as discriminatory. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, regarding the directive, the work of maintaining vehicles which are not routinely carried out as part of daily operations and require withdrawal from traffic while the current regulation of Article 24. The Law on Railways did not contain that definition. With regard to environmental protection, Article 13 of this Article fully implements the obligation to transfer the EU acquis to the Croatian legal system. Therefore, in a way that adds paragraph 5, which determines that compensation for the minimum access package and for access to service facilities may be modified to take into account the cost of environmental pollution caused by rail transport to the extent of the pollution caused. And the Law on Railways has not established the possibility of amending the compensation, taking into account the cost of environmental pollution caused by rail transport. I also find this very important. And even in the end, I would just like to be related to Article 14, so here it is quite important that the infrastructure manager responds as soon as possible to each individual requirement on individual train routes, which, of course, gives a better opportunity to those, or a better assessment of the need for reserved capacity to be approved by the manager. So to conclude, these amendments to the law need to be passed, they are well prepared, commendation to the ministry. And the Most Representatives' Club will support this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35270	I thank my distinguished colleague, Tomislav Sagar, for this debate. The next debate was held on behalf of HNS and HSU's Club of Representatives by a distinguished colleague, Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35271	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, welcome to the Secretary of State with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today talking about the railway, we have these European Parliament and Council directives of 2012. As early as 2013, we had a certain harmonisation and passed the Law on Railways in which the relevant provisions were implemented all in order to achieve a single European railway area. We had one pilot project, however, there were other things that needed to be coordinated. However, there were other things that needed to be harmonised, and that is why there is now a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways, which is complemented by 14 new articles while here are how many we have heard the two seem to be changing. So each of us welcomes the changes for the better, each of us welcomes and harmonize with EU directives because we believe that our common goal is actually to create safe integrated and competitive railways, that we all want a railway in Croatia as well as in the EU. Of course, there are also those who are on our level, but there are far more who are ahead of us. These changes will contribute to this above all, as the regulation of land-based book relations is also proposed, i.e. to ensure that property-legislative relations can be resolved as quickly as possible and that EU projects can be applied. I believe that the rest of the railroad that is currently under construction from Long Village to the Križevci, i.e. the continuation towards Koprivnica, will soon be reported and approved so that faster and better and safer people and goods can travel. Of course it all contributes to our economic growth, because if we have safe and cheap transportation, all of these are advantages of our own, and these are great. Here we also have this part of what my colleague before me has been saying this funding of $0.20 in the account of the infrastructure manager to be paid and now to remain. However, this limitation shall be introduced up to the maximum amount for that purpose provided in the national budget for each year. It's probably done because we expect to spend a lot more and it's going to be more fuel consumption and it's going to flow more, but I personally and we at the club have considered it and we have concluded that this restriction is not the happiest solution because we all see how much the needs for this infrastructure are railway and that it would be good to keep it without any restrictions. And what I might still mention is what is important, to add a provision to manage the infrastructure, that is, the operator of the service facility determines not only the amount of compensation for railway services but also the methodology of the method of calculating the compensation. Therefore, the cost of environmental pollution caused by rail transport to the extent of the pollution caused may also be applied and taken into account. All these points that change were presented to us here. The HNS and HSU club will support this bill in its first reading. I'm saying some of these things that we've been considering, maybe you'll be a little bit more commenting amongst yourselves, that is, with the Ministry of Finance. But in any case, we support everything that's better and that allows one better and faster development for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35272	I thank my esteemed colleague, Christmas, at least for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the motions from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In 2013, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Railways in line with European legislation and conditions governing the competitive EU rail market. In this respect, Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a single European railway area has been transposed. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Railways will be brought into line with the provisions of this Directive on the grounds that the European Commission, within the framework of the EU pilot, has submitted certain issues in connection with the non-compliance of national measures with that Directive. The harmonisation concerns provisions on the determination of the concept of railway infrastructure, and provisions on a specific type of maintenance of railway vehicles, provisions on the adoption of a business plan with mandatory prior consultation with users and the introduction of a register of infrastructure managers' assets. Provisions concerning the obligation of the infrastructure manager to cooperate with other infrastructure managers with regard to the system for fixing fees for the provision of rail services, rail transport crossing more than one infrastructure network within the EU and the obligation to establish appropriate procedures. The proposed law also addresses the question of compensation for financing rail infrastructure at the charge of energy excise duty. Here is the provision that pays this amount for the railway most to the amount provided for in the state budget, and we know that in 2013, there has been a change because the existing cost of 60 limes that has been paid to Croatian highways has been divided so that Croatia's highways get 20 lipes and 20 lips go for the infrastructure. In order to regulate land-to-book relations and facilitate the application of projects and the withdrawal of financial resources from European funds, the provision on the property-legal relations of railway infrastructure is amended. The draft law prescribes that the construction, modernisation, restoration and maintenance of railway infrastructure is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and the proposal for expropriation is submitted for this purpose by the infrastructure manager. The proposed solution was established in accordance with the Construction Act and the project implementation needs. HH Infrastructure manages 2604 km of track. Of the total length of the railway line, less than 10% of the railway line is twofold, largely limiting the permeability of the railway lines. The European rail infrastructure is a total length of about 215000 km. If the length of the RH railway line is compared to the total length of the EU railway line, we will see that we are participating with only 1.3% in this infrastructure. The financing of EU transport infrastructure development projects in the Republic of Croatia began during the pre-accession period, with the aim of creating a strong European transport network that will link the East and West, and to remove the traffic fragmentation in Europe or remove bottlenecks on European transport routes, improve infrastructure and link different modes of transport to multi-modal transport across Europe. Such projects financed from eu funds should be consistent with national policies and strategies, EU policies and strategies and implemented in accordance with the national and EU regulatory framework. We support the Government in order to continue with the rapid modernisation of rail infrastructure, to contract with the rest of the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion in 2014-2020. financing of the project modernisation and electrification of railway lines on Zaprešić-Zabok. The assessment of the value of this project is 80m euros, as well as the modernisation and electrification of the railway line on Vinkovci-Vukovar. The estimated value of this investment is 70m euros. Both projects are co-financed with 85% of European funds. It is very important to continue the implementation of ongoing railway projects, and we know that the reconstruction of the existing and construction of the second railway track on the long-term Selo-Križevci section is 32km long. Europe has provided funding, but here is the problem of public procurement that has long been waiting for this project and I can say the biggest investment in the last 50 years on HZ. Its amount is about a billion and 500 million kuna. The financing of the continuation of projects towards Koprivnica and the Hungarian border has been ensured. It's about what happened. a low-level railway that is moving from Rijeka to the north and has recently been mentioned as one of the most important priorities in rail transport. It also provides grants from eu funds. The total value of investment of EU funds in the past ten years is about a billion euros. Of course, we had to withdraw more resources, prepare more projects, but here are the clumsy policies, the fact that the Republic of Croatia has late entered the EU, and poor management of the system has not unfortunately been the only difficult circumstances for us if the problems are related to the implementation of the projects themselves, these are long-term public procurement procedures with uncertain outcomes, often hitching up or delaying the start of work, problems related to the long-term outcome of the permits, the slow resolution of property legal relations, changes in spatial plans and, for all these reasons, investments are delayed and delayed. In addition, we are making it difficult to implement new EU directives in Croatian legislation as a prerequisite for funding projects and funds from eu funds requiring a certain period of time to adapt and amend mandatory measures under the European directives. The result of this is inadequate quality of rail infrastructure, uncompetitive with respect to transport types and neighbouring railways and with frequent rail infrastructure failures. Unfortunately, the new technologies that have been introduced so far have not been carefully introduced, and the results are also partial. As a result, the security status of the rail safety system is also completed, for example, the project system of signal security devices at the Zagreb Central Station was completed in 2013, but due to the lack of software and the axle counter system, for four years now, the test work and the Railway Safety Agency has determined an extension of the test period until 31.3. this year means two more days, and here I hope that these defects, and the disturbances will be removed and that here after four years it will get a useful license and work out properly. The value of this project is 11.4m euros, and the project aims to significantly increase the flow of train traffic, which enables regular, safer service to rail users, and one of the primary objectives of this project is to modernise rail infrastructure and bring them into line with eu standards. Unfortunately, we can't even rise to the fact that the average commercial speed of trains on our railroads is 34 km/h. Passenger trains travel at a slightly higher average speed of 47.82km while freighters 21.57 and here in the last 20 years there is a negative trend of speed on our railways, while in Europe and in the world this trend of speed is rising and the speeds are increasing every year on this infrastructure. The new amended Article, Article 5 of the proposed law defines the legal status of the railway infrastructure, determines that the railway infrastructure to which the railway railways belong is classified on the basis of a decision on the classification of railway lines, with belonging elements owned by the Republic of Croatia and public goods in general use, determines the inability to establish and acquire real rights, and to establish the right of service, the right to build municipal, water, energy and electrical communications and related equipment. The proposed changes bring a lot of news about rail infrastructure and current industrial colossals. Here he would ask the question of construction, and maintenance of the trackways in which the status is part of the track, meaning from the area of the state railway to the industrial track? The law should make it more clear who is in charge of this maintenance, the construction of those colossals located on land, mostly owned by a local unit which and when built, does not have the necessary resources to maintain them. They should not remain anyone's, they should take care of him and I think that these concerns should lead and find interest exactly in HZ Infrastructure for their maintenance because these colossus make up a railway infrastructure that comes a significant part of the burden from individual industrial zones. The national programme leaves the non-preservable railways to local administrations already interested, but it is not a good solution because if it was not able to maintain HZ infrastructure, it would be some local community, some county, some county. The only way to talk in the Croatian Parliament about the position of the Croatian Railways is when we are changing the law, so we can freely say that here on the sidelines of the amendments to the law we are discussing such important issues in the Parliament because the government is also bringing a strategy of traffic development and a national railway programme. The Croatian Parliament adopted the Transport Development Strategy the last time in 1999, the government adopted for the development of 2014 – 2030. The National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008, 2012 was also adopted by the Croatian Parliament. 3 years we were without a national railway plan to bring the national railway infrastructure programme for 2016-2020 to the government in 2015. Is that a good solution, I don't think so. The Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, covering the period 2014-2020, recognises the importance of rail transport but lacks an investment plan in certain transport sectors. The government continued to adopt a national plan on the strategy as I said for the period from 2012. 2016/20. The programme is a fundamental document that sets out the priorities of development, construction, modernisation, renewal and maintenance of the functionality of the rail infrastructure system and is adopted in accordance with the strategy. The question is whether such important strategic documents for a country as the Transport Development Strategy and the National Proposal for Railway Infrastructure should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament. I think it would be with a great deal of agreement from the MPs. Given the current situation in HZ, which points to the need for better management of the railway system as well as the necessity of modernising railways, first of all the reconstruction and modernisation of railway infrastructure facilities without which the railways in Croatia will increasingly lose their sense of existence as warning that the Croatian Railways companies are in a very difficult business situation and part of them is facing a direct collapse. It would be good for the current government to carry out an analysis of whether the deforestation of HZ in the European Railways system would be interrupted by the re-establishment of the Holding or HZ Group and by uniting the project and programming units scattered by the fragmented HZ companies, which would strengthen the entire sector and bring it into place that its real market power and potential can be recognised globally by its real market power and potential, because all European countries have national railways, have such organisations regardless of European regulation, as well as our neighbours Slovenians and Austrians, Germans, French, Italians. We need to organise and technically train the railway to become a dominant and leading land-based intermodal carrier on the commercial principles and the realization of such a plan would ensure a long-term perspective for entrepreneurs and craftsmen who are linked to such systems, which would also contribute to a more stable rhythm of the Croatian economy. And finally here I should certainly say that the HDZ Club will support this law in its first reading, with a note to the promoters here to consider all today's remarks and suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35274	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peri Cosic, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35275	Thank you, Vice President. Here's fellow Cosic, I've been listening very carefully to your debate and I agree with a lot of what you've said. In the first place, and with the fact that we have very little chance of even discussing railways in the Parliament. I'd just like to update you here when you've listed the projects that you've forgotten to list the first rail construction project in the last 50 years, which is the construction of the St. Ivan Žabno - Gradec worth about 200 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35276	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vedran Babic, for the replica. And the answer to the esteemed colleague Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35277	Thank you very much. Well, I couldn't list all the priorities, but here are the projects that are ready, I don't know if this project is ready and I think the realization of these projects is there. I would point out that one project is very important and very important for the 10th Corridor, the former 10th Corridor that is Zagreb-Slavonski Brod-Vinkovci where they do not need special projects, do not need these property legal relations, so you should just return that railway infrastructure to the original state without major projects and get the speed you need. So these are projects that can be solved ad hoc, and I think that certainly the ministry has to do a lot to make the railroad even with neighbouring railways, we're going to lose all the corridors, we have established European corridors through our country, but unfortunately because of these speeds and because of the state of infrastructure we have these corridors haven't been used.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35278	I thank my esteemed colleague Peri Cosic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35279	Well, we can agree that the railways must keep the Republic of Croatia as well as all countries in the EU, but not only these main directions, but also those slightly side-by-side. This time we forgot Slavonia again. If we rule out the Vukovar-Vinkovci railway, it is indisputable but there are other railways that are very significant and that we still have from Austria-Hungarian and then they were economical and they were the best and the cheapest and today they are in the same situation and they are the cleanest, etc., etc. But we need to remember in 2010 when it was the fashion of abolishing railway lines, when even some Slavonic politicians competed who would be better able to put a better hold on the railway line, etc. After the renovation, it's extremely difficult. The Banova Jaruga is upstairs for you and until that bee, take Peternica Nasice, i.e. Pleternica-Caglin-Nasice, the railroad we called at the time of the war, is a hero, because without it there was no contact with Eastern Slavonia at all. There we are, and we haven't found each other because when it went off it was extremely difficult to run afterwards. We've run one piece but it's going extremely, extremely slowly. I think it's in these geopolitical conditions that we now have complex geopolitical conditions that are extremely important to us and to note that we must finally put this rail on its feet, it must finally function. Also, it's been done enough, I'm going to take just one example of Požega the Great where it went to slow down traffic so that this railroad can simply be lifted. We put this down, you mention 34 miles an hour, we're down 20 miles an hour. But, well, we made it to the local community. Thank you very much. And don't forget Slavonia and that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35280	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zdravko Ronko, for the replica and the reply of my esteemed colleague, Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35281	Well, it must not be forgotten, Slavonia. And this government also envisioned a project called Slavonia where significant funds will be invested in all parts and economies and infrastructures, as well as in the railways. This corridor which I, the railway that I said Vinkovci – Vukovar is an integral part of the corridor that goes towards the port of Vukovar, means river port, means Vukovar – Vinkovci – Zagreb – Rijeka. It's a very important corridor. But I was also talking about these inert railways that have begun to be abolished in the last government. Unfortunately, this law also provides for the classification of these railways in regions likely to come or fall on the maintenance or county burden or some other interested parties that have economic operators. I don't think that should happen, that these stripes should certainly be left in function as much as they do to live. But they're simply inexorable numbers. If there is no burden on that railway, if there are no passengers, it must be, and it costs a lot to maintain, and we know that here I said before the main corridor, so Zagreb – Slavonski Brod is now traveling for three and a half hours, and 30 years ago it passed in two hours, two and a half hours depending on which train. Our railroad has been abandoned for 15 years and 20 years, and I think we need to invest significant financial resources in that. It has been negotiated with the EU, projects should be prepared as soon as possible and this should be launched and certainly Slavonia must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35282	I thank my esteemed colleague Peri Cosic for his reply to the replica. Next, an important colleague, Vedran Babic, applied for a debate on behalf of the Social Democratic Party's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35283	Thank you, Vice President, dear secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Speaking of railways, opening national, freight and passenger markets for cross-border competitiveness is a major step towards creating an integrated European railway area and the real EU internal market for railways. Greater technical harmonisation of rail systems and the development of key cross-border rail routes have also helped to remove obstacles to the greater competitiveness of the railway sector, together with better links between the EU and neighbouring countries. Greater competitiveness leads to more efficiency and towards the user-oriented railways. EU rail legislation has consistently fostered competitiveness and the opening of the market and since the first main law in this direction dating back to '91. A year. The legislation is based on the difference between the infrastructure manager who manages the network and the railway areas used by the infrastructure for the transport of passengers or goods. The basic functions such as the allocation of railway capacity, the charge for the use of infrastructure and licensing must be separated from transport services and carried out in neutral modes of work. This would allow for non-discriminatory access by new railway undertakings to the market. In order to encourage greater competition in national markets, EU legislation has given railways the opportunity to achieve transport services in and between other EU member states by opening competition in a cross-border sense. The rail freight transport has been fully liberalised in the EU since the beginning of 2007 for both national and international services, and this means that any authorised EU railway company with a mandatory security solution can apply for capacity and offer national rail freight services across the EU. The market for international rail passenger transport services has been liberalised in the EU since 1 January 2010. The market for exclusively national passenger transport services has not yet fully opened to international market transport, although this could change in the future. In view of the above, it should be said that the Republic of Croatia has accepted a European vision that promotes greater use of railways as a more energy efficient and sustainable mode of transport. Secondly, the railway sector in Croatia is mostly transitory, as Croatian Adriatic ports serve as points through which the burden enters the markets in eastern Europe that should be respected in assessing the current and creating future strategies. The SDP Club has several objections to the following draft laws, as the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways collapses the concept of the Law on Railways because some solutions have not been elaborated at all throughout the text. Furthermore, if we want a modern rail infrastructure, it is not good for the compensation for the financing of the railway infrastructure to be paid per litre of charged excise duties on energy in the amount of 20 limes only to the amount most secured in the budget for each year. Why should fuel consumption not be higher and infrastructure would not receive more funding? We are all in the interest of restoring all possible burdens of the Croatian railway, which is a prerequisite for increased funds for the construction of the infrastructure itself. And when we look at the general state of the Croatian Railways it should be borne in mind that except that here everyone realized that year after year the speed on the tracks is reduced here I remember in particular while traveling as a student 15, 20 years ago that now only on the route of Kutina-Zagreb the path takes more than half an hour longer. In the replica, counterpart Ronko stated that many railways are closed in the meantime, whether they will be in the Slavonia project because a good part of them is closed in Slavonia, and only the revitalisation of the local railways is a prerequisite for development and the economy and the whole environment and it is very important for the local population alone. What happens to HZ Cargom, we also don't know, we have data that 11% of the market is lost this year. Is he just a human being, and he doesn't do market business, and I also don't understand what's with the distance to getting trains? We know that the past government has acquired 20 from the Croatian producer, does it mean to continue in that direction and what kind of vision do we have in the first place? Here's the sequence I won't owe you, and the SDP club will be held back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35284	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vedran Babic, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. A distinguished colleague colleague, Gordan Maras, appeared individually. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Does the proposaler's representative have a final word? There isn't. Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. I thank the representatives of the motions to State Secretary Mr Tomislav Mihotic, his associates, the respected head of the sector, Mrs Snjezani Josipovic, and the esteemed head of the sector, Drazen Antolovic, for further reasons of the bill. With this, we exhausted all the agenda points that were passed today for discussion at the plenary session. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Depths from 2007, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 113. Of course, before the debate, we expect possible club breaks due to important events in the Republic of Croatia from now on until morning. I thank everyone and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. Cheers. Session adjourned at 15.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u35285	The following is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 107. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The draft law is adopted by amendments and additions to the Law to the railways. Any comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account on the occasion of the completion of the final draft law.’. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. 86 votes for, 25 abstentions, 2 against. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The following law is the following opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Branimir Bunjc. I would like the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, Robert Podlonjak, to add an explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u38495	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament held at its 14th session on 23 March this year discussed the request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submitted to this committee by representative Branimir Bunjac on 22 March 2017. In accordance with the provisions of Article 236 and on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 60 of the Constitution Committee, Rules of Procedure and the political system shall give the following opinion by a majority of 9 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention. It is noted that the request incorrectly lists the number of non-existent paragraph 4 instead of paragraph 3 of Article 247 in relation to which it is requested that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system give an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. From the request and phonogram of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament of 22 January this year, it is clear that a joint debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the law on the procedure for the confiscation of property benefit has been reached by criminality and violation and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crimes has been proposed by the Clubs of Representatives of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the Croatian Democratic Community. The request explained that the proposal for a joint debate did not come from authorised applicants and that the agreement of all the clubs of the representatives was required. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed that two or more points of the established agenda may be held on the proposal of the Chair of the home working body, the Legislative Committee or the Clubs of Representatives on Two or more Points of the established agenda. During the clarification on the possibility of having a joint discussion, the chairman accepted the proposal from those clubs and made it possible to conduct a joint discussion in accordance with that business provision. Due to the inaccuracy of the provisions governing the implementation of the joint debate, the issue should be particularly regulated by the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In view of the above, the Committee is of the opinion that the provision of Article 247(3) has not been violated. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-29-0.u38496	Thank you very much. I thank the president of the Committee. In accordance with Article 236. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system shall be decided without discussion. I therefore vote on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Bunjec Representative. Please vote. 102 for, 11 abstentions, no one against. I find that most votes accept the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
