ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24633	Dear Vice President, I thank you. We've moved on to the agenda, haven't we? Then I ask for a break on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club to discuss the latest action against Governor Vujčić. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes.]] It is about conflict of interest, possible conflict of interest and the negative impact of the CNB on banks, domestic banks because they do not carry out quality supervision and supervisory work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24634	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24635	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, I request a ten-minute break to discuss growing poverty in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24636	There's no other club answering. Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24637	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. On behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists, I am looking for a break of ten minutes, and the topic will be a difficult situation in the economy in the city of Vukovar with an emphasis on the situation in Borovo d.d.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24638	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24639	Your Honor, Vice President. The HDZ Club is seeking a break of ten minutes related to the ongoing scandal over the costs incurred by the government of the Republic of Croatia, and this is why a procedure is being launched to determine the true truth of what led to this non-transparent act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24640	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24641	We're looking for a break for the same reason they've been looking for previous clubs, especially the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24642	Everybody, wow, you're gonna have a hard time saying it in five minutes. I don't see any other club. So I'll see you at 10.05. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS]] So I'm going to ask on behalf of the Living Wall of Honored Representative Goran Aleksic to say what he's up to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24644	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and you listening outside in the halls. I must inform you, and unless you have already learned from the media that the Committee of Conflict of Interest has initiated proceedings against Governor Vujcic for several reasons. First because it is 2013/2014. At his conference, Uni Credit paid all the costs of accommodation and travel to Governor Vujčić who participated in the conference. Then because it's 2015. Uni Credit again at its conference paid partly the cost of accommodation to Governor Vujčić. And finally because, in 2016, at a re-conferencing conference, the Governor of Vujčić did not take the necessary measures to remove the possibility of conflict of interest in the event of participation in the conference. The procedure was initiated on the basis of the application of the Franak Association from the beginning of 2016. It is interesting that the conference lasted until 13 to 15 January 2016, that the application was raised on 18 January 2016, that it was sent to the Commission on 21 January 2016 and that, afterwards, on 25 January 2016, the CNB sent a request to the Unicredit to deliver to the CNB a cost. Therefore, it was only after that that CNB referred a request to the Unicredt to be delivered to him by the coster, and based on that cost, the CNB was reportedly later and paid those costs. What's the problem? The problem is that it is a conference of a private corporation and that of a bank, the owners of a bank, the Bank of Zagreb, under which the CNB has a duty to conduct supervision and supervisory tasks. The CNB plays a very important role in the Republic of Croatia, the CNB must take care of price stability, it must take care to support the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, lead monetary and foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, but one of the most important tasks of the CNB is supervision and supervisory of the work of Croatian banks. In that part of the CNB has completely failed the exam for the last 10 years. We know well that in the collective court process, 7 out of 8 defendants have negotiated unfair contractual provisions on how to change interest rates with their clients. The association Franak warned the CNB before the verdict, however, the CNB claimed that, on the consumer protection sites of the CNB, it had been informed that it was allowed for banks to change interest rates on a voluntary, unilateral basis, administrative decisions. Later, a verdict by the High Court of Commerce and a review of the Supreme Court found that this was not permitted. The next major HNB failure takes place back three years. In fact, the CNB argues that banks were allowed outside contractually, voluntarily and unilaterally to define the parameters for the change in interest rates in those credit agreements in which it was not agreed and based on the law, the amendment of the consumer credit law adopted in 2013 and the publication in the National Journal of 143/13. Therefore, it is a great sin of the CNB not to do its job, not to supervise and supervisory the banks, not to initiate the necessary misdemeanours against banks, and I therefore conclude that it is not by chance that Unicredit pays Governor Vujčić the costs of travel and accommodation. It is interesting that these UniCredit conferences in 21016 were attended by the national banks of eastern countries until, say, the Austrian National Bank participated and the event took place in Austria. Here I am looking forward to what will continue to happen and in the meantime I am telling the CNB to finally start doing its job and that the supervision and supervisory of banks interrupts the illegal way of determining interest rates in loans agreed before 1 January 2013 with the consumers of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24645	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the HNS club, HSU will speak to the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24646	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When I announced that I was going to talk about growing poverty in the Republic of Croatia, there was a hack here as if someone wanted to deny it that it wasn't true. But the figures are ruthlessly speaking about it and they are precise and clear. But first, I must say that Croatia has a strategy to fight poverty from 2014 to 2020. From this strategy which is on some 50 pages in which everything beautiful, wonderfully, excellently writes has not taken a step further in 2015 in the election year, nor in 2016 in the second election year and certainly not now. No action plan, no target groups according to which to intervene, no plans in certain areas in which poverty is curbed, poverty is missing. And it's really more than worrying. Today, we in Croatia, according to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which accurately manages the data and really manages the income price, not income but income, have total income in 2016 of 441494 citizens who have income less than 1516.32 kuna per head, per household member. We might be talking about something else going on. Maybe we're really insensitive to this job of ours and he hasn't noticed us, we don't see what it is, in what state our citizens are in with this income under 1516 kuna per person. We also have another category that lives alone that has income less than 1939 kunas, each month, live as singles. He's got 150,000 of them. But that's not all. In the past year, hundreds of thousands lost their right to be released from supplemental because of various donations from cities, municipalities, Christmas courts, various other incomes lost it for 10, 20, 30 kuna. So we can freely claim that we have 700 thousand citizens living below or around this income censorship somewhere on a maximum of 50 kuna. Can you imagine what it means to organize your life under these circumstances? So we are ready for what we do, the Croatian Party of Retirement and the Croatian People's Party to contribute to the fight against poverty in the pension system, in the system of housing, in the energy system. But we have to cooperate in Parliament, the government has to be open to proposals and we can do something about it. I can say that in the pension system, poverty can be resolved through a specific supplement to a certain limit that we must establish by consensus that no one below can have income in the Republic of Croatia. So we can do that with one add-on. We can resolve by stopping the retirement pension, we can solve for a different arrangement of family pensions, we can solve for different social benefits, but we need to be sensitive and respond quickly to these situations. It can't happen that a pensioner from Dubrovnik wrote me a letter after this week's exposure here, that he has 1490 kuna pensions, that he has made a request for Croatia's broadcasting to cut his TV subscription to 40 kuna and that he was rejected because he receives his pension from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is it possible that someone in this country is doing 40 kuna a month for that reason? That's what's happening to us. And I'm going to talk about these problems all the time, because the mass of individual problems makes this situation a total of 18% of citizens live below the mentioned income censorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24647	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24648	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As I was preparing for today's session, I also came up with information that actually fraternized me about the events in the city of Vukovar and by the state of the labour market. The Vukovar area office has shown an increase in the number of unemployed, a total of 4,000 people are in the office. Mostly it's an increase in November, so then a man would think it was a seasonal increase. But is looking at last December 2015 a reduction from 15%. However, when looking at newly registered persons who came from 583 persons, 472 people came from a working relationship, which is an increase compared to November 2016, as well as from 2015, and only 5 people came from regular schooling. When I got into a little bit of trouble why it happened, it's clear that it comes to the collapse of the economy in Vukovar. They've stopped working for two companies, which leaves a lot of people out of work. The rubber elastor that took over the production of belts from Borov where our president was also on tour, where they announced development, they don't work. On the other hand, we have a bio diesel Vukovar that is here with them alone and held one meeting where they indicated that no one in Croatia mixes biodiesel or other fuel with what is mandatory and legal. And they have no one to deliver to, they've stopped production. 30 people lost their jobs. However, what is an even greater threat is the Borova d.d. system. where over 700 people work, 400 and some people in the production itself who have come into a very difficult situation where the pre-warrant settlement has been reached. Now it's showing up I don't know if it was normal back then or if today this new model is normal, but something's wrong. Comparing the Borov pre-fashion agreement programme that has been reached, and for example, Badel who has here is now a proposal for adoption, we see significant differences. The difference, for example, is that in Bor's public bodies, meaning what state institutions were involved in some form of religious relations over Borov they wrote down 30% interest and 30% capital while for example banks had written off only interest. Looking at Badell, we have there that public authorities fired 60% of the principal and, of course, interest, we have banks that fired 60%. And then I look at why this situation even happened, if someone wanted to reverse the situation in Borov, this way they can't out of their regular business service obligations that they would have under the pre-fashion deal or they went to the convenience of the interested groups in Badel, so there was a beautiful exception. I would only warn if we compare Borovo we can say in the city of Vukovar the largest employer in the county the second largest, if he gets down on his knees with these 100 now unemployed with 400 new ones that would come only from production, and even more from all other activities not only in Vukovar in Vukovar-Srijem County but also in other parts of Croatia where they have their own businesses, then we can talk very quickly on the subject today about the investigation committee for both Borovo and Badel, and then we should actually conclude that we do not need an individual investigative commission for all forms of state property management if we see that someone has benefited from the manipulations. But long-term Vukovar, Vukovar-Srijem County and Croatia have great damage and this is actually a question that we need to discuss and what laws we need to pass. And the question is exactly what counterpart Alexic presented in his presentation, the fight against all forms of corruption and guessing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24649	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24650	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The HDZ Club also asked for this break on the topic that appeared in Croatian media for non-transparent, incorrect and false payment of foreign exchange diaries at the time of the government led by Mr Zoran Milanovic. We know and know that state institutions are already carrying out certain actions, that statements and opinions are given, and that we are appealing to state institutions that this process as soon as possible and more transparently and professionally bring in regrets so that the public, as well as we MPs, may know the full truth. We didn't come here from a pay phone to invoke collective responsibility, as some of our distinguished colleagues knew our colleagues here to call us part of a criminal organization. We will respect the work of Croatian institutions and appeal to do this job as soon as possible and best in accordance with the rules of the profession. But what's the problem is that our appeals while we were in the opposition, and regarding this issue of spending funds did not transparently use cards and representation systematically ignore. I will remind you and we can evoke memories that we from the HDZ Club in March 2014 have asked the government of the Republic of Croatia a representative question about who is using and how official cards, representations, official cars. We didn't get the answer for a year and two months, we didn't get it until after the fourth rush. The same question was asked by the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, at the current afternoon, who insinuated any of our insinuations at all that we should ask him and answer him, that there are errors, there are failures, there are impertinences but there are no violations of the rules and so we try to function. It was then said that it was the Bundesliga, there was a response to over five pages, and then they began to come up with findings on the use of credit cards incorrectly in the Ministry of Culture, and then they began to come up with a number of things that were trying to say that it didn't matter and that it didn't make sense. We are not talking about collective responsibility, but the answer, the written answer to this parliamentary question, has been verified by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It lists virtually all government ministries. Which one of us can trust more in these figures after this situation that emerged with travel foreign exchange costs in the government of the Republic of Croatia. And these days, we have in the Croatian Parliament of our colleagues from the SDP attacks on this Croatian government, whatever program, initiative, budget, the law of the government suggests even if it has nothing to do with such things by opposition colleagues, we have attacks on non-translucency, non-trust, inaccuracy, unbelief. Who can believe this answer to the written request of the Croatian representative in the Croatian Parliament where the funds are counted after this situation we have? Of course, we didn't even believe the answer in Croatia's Bundesliga, of course we didn't believe then when we called for the spending of funds and travels of various ministers from Milanovic's government. Therefore, once again we appeal to the Croatian institutions, responsible for this problem to shed light on the true truth and of course to those responsible for these failures responsible for these failures call for responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24651	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, the last one will speak for the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24652	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to ask the HDZ Club to give MP Mesic a place where he can see this voting screen a little bit better because he just accused us that whatever comes from the government that we're against and now we're voting for eight laws. Well, maybe you didn't get a good look, so I'd like to ask you to keep that in mind. So, as for Mr Mesic's presentation, they can join the appeal he made, which we from the SDP said on Sunday to the institutions that as soon as possible they determine what it is and I can make their prediction even though I do not have a crystal ball that I am very sure that the institutions will determine that political people have nothing to do with this. Of course I can't claim it 100%, no one can claim 100% but with a very high probability. It is also a fact that the audit findings show that all but people most frequently mentioned in the media have known about this case for several months. So she knew the revision because she wrote it, she knew the attorney's office because she got the audit results, she knew the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, or the government's employees, I'm not saying they knew the ministers or even the cabinet because they gave an indication of the audit without asking people who might know something more about it or who mentioned it. In fact, they still said that what happened was common and fine. Therefore, on Sunday, the SDP made it clear that we believe that our political rivals are not behind this bribery, the government of Andrija Plenkovic does not stand. The gentle tone that Mr Mesic had today has strengthened us even more in that belief. Of course our political rivals will try to use this situation to get us a little scribbled, we'd be in their place maybe harder, but still it's now a thing, it's a thing of style. Maybe Mr. Mesic just wants to neutralize these attacks from the right that go for him, but you're not afraid, we'll defend you if they attack you. And therefore, I think that at least from the Croatian Parliament's pay phone, except for the institutions' appeal in this case, except for the institutions' appeal in this case, it would be good for some time, as it is said, to let the institutions do their job. We urge the state's attorney's office to finish this story as soon as possible, after which it is very likely that the courts, that people most often mentioned, are Mr. Saucha, Mr. Goldstein, Mr. Budak and Mr. Petrovic, no longer exposed to unnecessary media pressure and suspicion of guilt, although no one directly said it. But it certainly is not pleasant for them to be in such a situation, since it is, in all likelihood, something that happened beyond their knowledge and probably and certainly beyond their will. As regards transparency, therefore, it serves as a state audit to determine what was done, to determine how far it had deviated from the rules, to inform the competent institutions to see if this derogation from the rules falls within the sphere of criminal or criminal liability, so it has been since the audit works and so will be in the future. So I want to remind you that the first day after that came out in the media, which I thank this opportunity for performing their role when other institutions are, I won't say asleep but they slept through this case a little bit. However, it is an opportunity for these institutions to now pass the exam and that the guilty are punished and that the money which was obviously paid should not be returned to the state budget with one small note that these 307 thousand kuna is, by my calculations, double the cost for advisors than one adviser to Minister Steier will spend, i.e. to get a net fee for his work in 4 years. So here 3 advisors worked for free and there's going to be one in 4 years somewhere 480 thousand net plus with contributions that's about double what's been spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24653	Thank you very much. After all, you haven't talked about all the topics. You've talked about only one but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24677	On behalf of the representative of SDP's Club, distinguished colleague Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia, we are looking for a break to warn about the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and Croatian society towards refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24679	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. I'm laying the foundation of article 248th break of 10 minutes. We'll continue at 16.15. It's 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24680	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,15 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDP club, please take the word from representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24681	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we were looking for this break because yesterday evening, an Iraqi asylumist was severely beaten in Karlovac. Today, three people were arrested – one of 36, one of 21 and one of 17 years. The three are asylum seekers, so the person we welcomed to our homeland broke his jaw so hard that he had to be operated here in Zagreb in Dubrava. My colleagues and colleagues, where are we going as friends? A minor from a country who has tasted persecution and refugee for a few lives took part in violence against his peer who has lost everything. Many here know what war is. I was an exile, a colleague of Prgomet and a colleague of Varga saw the war as doctors in the sanity, colleagues Ostojić, Matic, Brkic collected their wounded and dead comrades by the front. Was that for nothing? Were we victims just to become thugs 25 years later? I hope not. Here I am asking you all to use your influence in the areas from which you come to help Croatia not to become the country that opened the door for people and received them because they have no place to be, because they have no roof over their heads, which treats them like souls. Because we're also in '91. They could treat a lot of us, so they didn't. Let's not be like that. We know what war is and we know what persecution is. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-08-0.u24682	Thank you very much.
