ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38622	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club MOST of 10 minutes on the proposal for a concession law that today passed a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38623	Okay, thank you. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38624	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break to discuss the latest EUROSTATA standard of living report in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38625	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a break? A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38626	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I demand a break from numerous internal political illogicalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38627	Thank you very much. Okay, here we go. We'll take a break. And my colleague Bacic's still on the phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38628	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the concession law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38629	Thank you very much. Here's just one piece of information before the break. So we'll continue at 9.47 minutes. As of tomorrow, according to the presidency's decision, it's a new seating schedule. You'll all be getting information during the day where you're sitting, so I'm asking you to be in your seats from tomorrow. Now it's a break up to 9.47 minutes. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] First word came from counterpart Miro Bulj on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38631	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, last week we discussed the Association reading of the Law on concessions, then on behalf of the club MOST we asked for a third reading and also, a public debate, also requested by a number of citizens, associations, on the islands and on the coast. So yesterday there was an organized, just protest. The only way to protect public and general well-being is a clear law on concessions. However, this law, which has been proposed by the second reading, simply makes it impossible for specific water laws, maritime goods and other goods to adapt to this law, which is why we have to go to third reading and hope to go to third reading, because I find out that there are some changes and in most that defended last week this possibility of third reading and public debate. What's so bad about this law that we can repeat our concessions? The concessions, we all know, are given on the activity, on works and services, but the concession law provides for the possibility of enrolling the right of the financial institutions in a concession. Indicative right by financial institutions to concession, i.e. the mortgage, which the bank enrolls on a loan that would give to the concessionaire for their investment and the area of concession. That's for example. Like the Golden War, you should be good with the mayor, that's enough for you. You should have a company to which you do not need to have any employees, and you can be even in a minus nor kuna, and he grants you this public good, against the interest of local self-government because the county has made that decision on concession, and the local self-government that is of interest to the maritime good to develop, in this way to include, not only through this Law on concessions, but naturally to engage in the development of its place and what is best. To begin with, what would an investor do to us without any capital? So this law is bad, and the visible example is the santa and the tip of the ice concessions, and that's what we all know, the Gold War. And also, we have the same big problem, so when you can give a concession to someone else. So you get a concession by competition, and you feel free to give someone else a concession, for example. Cold water, now concessionaire Todorovic, and he can give water to whoever he wants. Foreigner, owner, co-owner. So we need concessions to protect, and that's what the public is looking for, what the islanders are looking for, what the whole public is looking for. The public, citizens, are interested, local communities and associations because they are not involved in the creation of laws and these latest studies which are declared suitable for concession and selection of concessionists and concession control. It should be pointed out that the concessionaires of maritime goods are concerned with areas of cities at sea, about the city centre, where these people do not have the right to come to ports, boobs, beaches, they do not have the right to come to citizens. So this gave us the right to decide anywhere without these people or in Zagreb or in Split-Dalmatia County, Dubrovnik, without local self-government? Local self-government is also required and we have given amendments, however, we are asking again publicly and loudly that this is the natural good of people who live and who need to use this potential, and not from Zrinjevac or from Mark's square, only to decide not even the county, to decide on the rights of those people living in the area. Their right and constitutional right is to allow these people to have their views, and even referendum issues would be good there. We ask that the Law on concessions, meaning it goes into third reading, that it goes into its creation, so that the interested public is involved, I expect that with us Parliamentarians, who have chosen and come to the awareness that these people of local self-government and cities, as well as the inhabitants of these cities of local self-government, island and coastal areas, also agricultural land where local self-government are, have the right to decide on their own goods because they know how best to manage. Their human and constitutional rights must not be disabled, their decision-making rights are set out in the Constitution, Article 70. We ask that the Croatian Parliament and the Government respect the Croatian Constitution and the Archduke Convention, which is simply, not only not being respected, but absolutely devoid of the people's full decision and in the interest of individuals such as the Golden War, the Brač summit on the ice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38632	Thank you. Second debate, esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, Club of Representatives... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the Attorneys of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38633	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Last week's latest EUROSTAT statistics came out, which deals with the living standards of EU members and according to the latest results, Croatia fell for another place, we are being overtaken by Romania and are currently in the 27th or the last place, or only Bulgaria is behind us. I believe that I do not need to remind you that in the early 1990s, Croatia was a concept for all post-Communism countries. Not long ago in 2007 our advantage over other countries was pronounced. We had a much better standard than Lithuania, than Latvia, than Hungary, Poland, and Romania by 30%. And today, all of us have a better standard by 30%, and even us, Bulgaria, which is behind us, is rapidly reaching. To make things more interesting, we have been overtaken by standard by even Turkey, and Macedonia is rapidly approaching us. This is all because there is no reform in Croatia, which is the fall in consumer confidence, because we have poor results of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, because we have poor judiciary, because we are allowed tax evasionrs to laugh at us, because nothing is done against whoever allowed pension funds to buy 750 million kunas of the valueless Agrokor shares, because nothing is done against those banks under the resolutional managements that lend loans to the bosses because nothing is done against those who gave criminal guarantees of 90 billion kuna while Agrokor workers are working for the minimum, because health care in debt is 8 billion, because civil servants are owed between five and six billion, because we have airports that do not operate in the tourism season. We have a public transport that has become more expensive than taxis, tolls that are undefeated in Europe, the emigration of young people and the lack of labour. Instead of solving problems, our government celebrates the shift of MOST ministers, our government celebrates the breaking of the Croatian People's Party, our government boasts by arresting several minors and senior minors in Supetar, our government haunts young people for publishing on Facebook and continues as first-rate news. Our government is tightening relations with Russia, our government is changing the eighth minister in eight months since its appointment. It is therefore a government that does not have the courage to make the right order, which does not have the courage to replace those responsible for the bad condition, which does not have the courage to process real criminals, who do not have the courage to break debt slavery, lower food prices and protect domestic production. In view of such a situation, Croatia can expect to become the worst-placed EU country by standard, which is indeed regrettable. It is our opinion that Croatia must be better not only than Bulgaria, but than all the posts of communist countries because we have every prerequisite for this. We have land, we have water, we have sea, we have people, we have climate, we have history and tradition. And if this government can't take advantage of these potentials, if it can't take advantage of all the wonderful opportunities that our Croatia gives us, then it would be the most honest and responsible to move itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38634	The third debate is that of SDP and counterpart Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38635	... Today in Croatia we have a catastrophic government and power, probably the worst we have ever had. [[Specially enabled.]] Which is why it is very clear to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it is the most incompetent and re-netified of the most diverse interests that people can even remember. If I were rude, I'd say this government looks to me and looks like Frankenstein's government. For what? Because of how it's configured. Look at most, the power we have, who's there all in that family, who's raised his hand, how it works, how it's bought, as I would say the voters' will is betrayed. Second because of the damage and horrors that work, and we have seen these days which are all the problems that plague our country. Because of the water interests we have seen now and that eight ministers have been changed for one to remain. And, of course, because of the work and the results that are not to be seen at all, they're not even in the tracks. At the end of the day, the government sees it in the media and quit buying INA. So Prime Minister Plenkovic lied to the Croatian public. He's giving up buying INA and it was a Christmas PR performance that was supposed to give people false hope, and nothing's gonna happen in the end. As far as the concession is concerned, I urge all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to resist it. Today you'll see the prolongation vote, but that doesn't mean anything. This means that Prime Minister Plenkovic is waiting for a moment when he will implement his intention and will allow private interests to dominate our space in the way they wanted to do it on the island of Brac and on the beach of Bol. So don't give up just like we MPs in the Croatian Parliament won't give up on the initiative of protests, insisting, demanding to go to third reading and this delaying vote means nothing. Secondly, I want to get to know very clearly the Croatian public here about what kind of crowd of interest in the government is working on a simple example. The European Commission has decided to launch a process in the EU court related to the non-implementation of a directive that would serve the Legislative Regulation, related to the revision. The Republic of Croatia, Minister Zdravko Maric, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, had to support the directive on the revision of large companies by 17.6.6. Why didn't they do it? Does anyone in this assembly have any doubt about why they didn't do it? If there is, because I see a few people are interested, so they didn't, so Agrokor wouldn't get a strict review in 2016 and that information about the situation in Agrokor would not have been known sooner. The European Commission and it is a paradox, we here in the Croatian Parliament every week, adopt certain directives and these are the procedures that go faster, in 2 readings, in order to adopt the Directives as soon as possible. It's the only way we've avoided this directive is to adopt it. Zdravko Maric, Andrej Plenkovic, did not want to adopt this directive, so that people in Croatia would not know the truth about Agrokor. And that's what I was telling you. An interest that is intertwined to the foundations of this government. I am surprised at the people who support it, because they too will be responsible for everything that will happen around Agrokor and all the unpleasant and bad situations in Croatia. Some have these motives, some have those motives, most often they're petty trading motives, to allow HDZ to continue to drive this country. Please, Mr. President, I've already said this three times in this assembly, allow the establishment and discussion of the investigative committee in Agrokor. Why is HDZ blocking the establishment of an investigative commission in Agrokor? We ask that it be put on the agenda immediately, that we discuss it and start working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38636	Thank you, colleague Maras. You know for yourself that it is about the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Parliament, to put that item during this session, so I am glad that you have decided that it is urgent, I will consider it. Thank you very much. And the final debate is the esteemed colleague Branko Bačić, the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38637	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so here I am on behalf of the HDZ Club, saying a few words about the Law on concessions and all these events that have taken place in Croatia in recent days, and are allegedly related to the Law on concessions. First of all, a few words about the concession law. I must say that I am surprised by the ignorance or politics of some fellow MPs who are trying to channel the concerns of my fellow citizens, islanders, and other citizens living by the sea in the Republic of Croatia. And link it to this proposal, the final proposal of the Law on Islands, the Law on concessions, which was discussed last week in the Croatian Parliament. So, first of all, a few words about the concession law. The Law on concessions is in line with the European Directive of March 2014, it is beautifully written in that interpretation of the law and according to that directive, it is obliged to include it in its legislation within 2 years, so until then, we were obliged to do so by March last year. As you know we haven't done, we haven't done it yet, and that's why the government has implemented the procedure for passing that law. So there was a bill that was based on a debate with the interested public that was made in March and April last year. The debate with the interested public was made, and then all this could be discussed, then in that procedure we could talk about. Meanwhile, after the debate was concluded in February this year, we discussed the law in the first reading. They adopted it almost unanimously here in the Croatian Parliament, with 117 votes in favour, 2 against and 4 abstentions. Even then, there was no question of any concession of beaches and marine goods. On the basis of this first reading and suggestions and suggestions and suggestions and debates, the Government proposed a final bill to the Parliament, which then clearly comes from all these remarks stemming from the concessioning of the Zlatni rat beach. Here I would like to say clearly on behalf of the HDZ Club that the Law on concessions is a roof law which defines the handling of concessions in all activities in the Republic of Croatia, but the concession of maritime goods, which includes beaches, coasts, ports, is based on sectoral law, the Law on maritime goods, which, unfortunately, has been in preparation for a long time and has not yet seen the light of day and has not yet come and adopted as the final draft of the law, the law in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, if this concession law were the basis for the concession of beaches and so would the Golden War in Brač, then this would not have happened what we are talking about here today. Namely, the entire process and the process of concessioning the beach Zlatni rat, was done under the Law on Maritime Good, not under the Law on concessions, it is important for the prominent. Therefore, we cannot, because of the error in the procedure, make our remarks, stand on this law, because the error that occurred in the course of the law, when concessioning the beach Zlatni rat, is based on the Law on the maritime goods and the procedure was implemented under that law. Therefore, we need to adopt this law, and in order to avoid any failures, when concessioning maritime goods, we need to make a new Law on Maritime Good, and that is what the Government needs to deliver. Therefore, it would be good to discuss the Law on concessions, then to talk about all those concessions of all those activities and space of the Republic of Croatia based on the Law on concessions. And when we talk about other concessions, such as maritime goods, then we must seek the adoption of a new Law on Maritime Goods and a Regulation on the concession of maritime goods. Therefore, I understand the concerns of my fellow citizens who show dissatisfaction with certain concession procedures on maritime good, but this dissatisfaction does not stem from the good or bad Law on concessions, but from the fact that we have not yet adopted the relevant Law on Maritime Goods in Croatia. To enable quality legal concessions of maritime goods and protection [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]] the interest of the Republic of Croatia on the maritime good. [[Attack President: Comrade Bačić, timed out.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u38638	Thank you, too. With this we exhausted the vote and move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, second reading, P.Z. Number 59. I would like to remind you once again, so at half past three there will be a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, at 15.00 hours of voting on the candidate for the new foreign and European affairs minister and after that the debate and voting on the new candidate for the Croatian Vice-President and thereafter the continuation of the debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law. This law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution, Article 171. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the motion for an act by dispatching the Parliament. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and by Agent Veljko Kajtazi. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. There's Mr. Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the MUP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40708	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Madam Representatives, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. In short, I will give you the reasons for the amendments to the proposal of the Foreign Law and the amendments that took place between the first and second readings. The area of entry and work of foreigners into the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Act on Foreigners, which applied from 1 January 2012, and has suffered one significant novel in 2013 just before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full EU membership. The law on foreigners contains provisions relating to the entry of foreigners into the Republic of Croatia, the visa system of the Republic of Croatia, the work of foreigners, the short-term temporary and permanent stay of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia in which family integration institutes, secondary education and study, and scientific research in the Republic of Croatia are regulated, and the law contains specific provisions for nationals of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, the approval of the European Blue Card to highly qualified foreigners, as well as the regulation of the status of foreigners who have an approved permanent stay in the Member State of the European Economic Area. Otherwise, the Foreigning Law is in line with 22 directives, recommendations, decisions and resolutions of the European acquis. However, the tendency to enter into force of this Act on Foreigners and its novel 2013 has been adopted by three new directives which need to be transposed into national legislation, primarily through this law. It is the following Directives, Directive 2014/67/EU of 15 May 2014 implementing Directive 96/71/EC on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services and amending Regulation (EC) No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System. Next, Directive No. 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2008 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 336/2006 (OJ L 335, 30.12.2009, p. 1). 2014/36/EU of 26 February 2014 on seasonal workers and finally Directive 2014/66/EU of 15 May 2014 on foreigners transferred within the company. For all these directives, as I have said, the deadline for harmonisation has passed, so it is necessary to transpose them into our legislation. A first reading debate was held on the proposal of the Foreign Law, which was concluded on 17 January 2017 and was sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 24 January to prepare for a second reading. All comments and proposals submitted in the debate have been carefully considered and this proposal for a law was drafted in the section in which the comments could be accepted. The shortest I can say is the changes that are in the final bill, the difference between the meaning of the first and second reading. The Directive on posted workers will allow the establishment of a common framework for the appropriate provisions of the measures and control mechanisms necessary for better and more uniform implementation and enforcement in the practice of Directive 96/71/EC, including measures to prevent and punish any abuse and circumvent existing rules. It is equally regulated to issue residence permits and work permits for seasonal workers and persons transferred within a company which will be issued under the annual quota issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, except in the case of long-term mobility of foreigners transferred within a company when coming from another Member State, as well as other issues such as the guaranteed rights of seasonal workers and foreigners transferred within a society, the question of the termination of licences, etc. When we talk about seasonal workers, it is about those workers who, therefore, whose work and need for work depends on their individual age and their lack and work forces within the Croatian labour market such as tourism and catering, agriculture and forestry. Next, it is important to note that members of the family of Croatian citizens will be regulated under reduced conditions so that members of the family of Croatian citizens no longer have to prove their means of maintenance for the approval of temporary stay. In the light of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 2016, no. 68453/2013 Pajic vs. Croatia as well as the Life Partnership Act of the same sex is also possible for couples to regulate temporary stay in order to achieve a life partnership. In the area of measures taken by foreigners, detailed provisions on the refusal of entry or exit of foreigners from the Republic of Croatia as well as measures taken towards a foreigner who is illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia are more detailed. It is defined to be considered an illegal stay of a foreigner in the Republic of Croatia. It is prescribed in which procedures will translate a foreigner who is illegally staying and a foreigner who stays in a short stay into a language he understands. The categories of foreigners who have the right to free legal aid, which it includes, who can provide it and in which cases the stranger does not have the right to such legal assistance. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with the Return Directive, the reasons for the accommodation of foreigners in the reception centre for foreigners are set out and the power to search and collect biometric data is defined, as well as the assessment of age, foreigner, as well as the cost of forced distance. Here these are respected ladies' MPs and gentlemen's representatives of the basic amendment and the additions defined by this Final Proposal of the Law. And here I am and my associates are here to try to answer your questions and suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40709	Thank you, too. We have 3 replicas of State Secretary Zarko Katic's presentation. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40710	I'd just, what would I say about this law, I'd just say one word, scary. The king is naked. Is it possible that 20 years and more after the end of the Homeland War that Croatia, born out of the country, should also receive citizenship for 3 years, 2 years for the housekeeper. Every six months it must rise as if every six months it has to raise a birth certificate. You have 3.5 million Croats out here who do not have a residence and are dependent on the survival and future of the Croatian state. They're totally... from economic and social development, on purpose from former structures, they don't want these people here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They gave six Croatian generals, it came 60 billion dollars, 60 billion dollars from the 1990s to today. These people have no right to vote, have formal, third countries have a letter vote, outside... 30,000 Croats must fly six hours to get to the polls, these are smoke curtains, clear smoke curtains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There comes 16 billion kunas out there every year, which is registered plus a million euros, that's almost 4% of GDP, that's maybe some are funny, some aren't. How is it possible to sit behind people's documents for years, after consulates? Who assesses the success of the work of these institutions where former rescuers are still following, people from the central committee who are never... The Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why do I say in this country there's still a left and right wing of UDBA, who don't want these people here, they don't want them here. The best example is Tony with... In the Czech Republic, she was supposed to be in Lika and there she is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? A man came from Canada born here to seek a meeting to be a centre for Central and Southeast Europe, could not reach the minister. This, I'd say this is all, this law and everyone else since the Homeland War are just pranks, legal and constitutional, and we'd better wake up because we're not going to be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40711	Thank you, fellow Glasnović. The answer to the line, yes or no? .../Intruder: Later. Comrade Glasnović, please. [[Later, okay. Second replica. The intruder doesn't understand.]] There will be discussions, you can turn yourself on whenever you want. Second replica, Honored colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here is how it is pointed out on the committees that have discussed this law, what is particularly concerned and what is going through the whole law is so-called. ‘criminalisation of solidarity’. In fact, during the refugee crisis when the first wave hit the Republic of Croatia, then we witnessed photographs, scenes we must have all been proud of. You remember the fact that a Croatian police officer is carrying a small child, a migrant, I remember what the migrants left in the White monastery in the military. I feel good here, thank you Croatia, thank you very much. We're criminalizing solidarity now. In other words, colleagues and colleagues, if you meet on the street a foreigner who is hungry, you must first ask him whether he was in the Republic of Croatia legally or illegally. If he stays illegal, then you too are in danger if you help him, if you feed him, to end up in Remeticz as a colleague said before me. Isn't that absurd? We who have shown the world and Europe how to deal with the refugee crisis, which we have shown what solidarity means, even though things are not the best thing for Croatia to say that we have a great economy, employment, purchasing power, but we have shown others how to refer to those who are in trouble. I personally believe that aid that does not result in any material or financial benefit for the aider but is driven by moral or humanitarian motives, in situations of necessary assistance for the protection of life or integrity of a person who illegally crosses the border or is illegally staying in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, cannot be a crime. Because then we, colleagues and colleagues are not moral people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40713	Thank you. The third replica is the esteemed counterpart Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40714	Thank you, Mr. President. So counterpart Hajdukovic said most of what I intended, since civil society representatives contacted us on several occasions and asked us to try before the final adoption of this text to better regulate the part relating to the criminalisation of foreign aid. And representatives of civil society agree that you are the text that we have now promoted in relation to the first variants but still remains the possibility of interpretation that is not good. Indeed, we must ensure that all who need help can be provided without those who provide it being brought into a situation to criminalise it. I would like to point out in particular that I am asking you to take note of this, Secretary of State, so among other things, you have stated that we are adopting this law for the reason that we must comply with European directives, however, the European directive relating to this part of assistance to foreigners is therefore not binding. It has allowed all EU Member States to adopt this directive in a way that makes it milder, more stringent, that is, to adapt it to their conditions. This should be respected before, and what is happening in Europe because recently we had a situation in Italy where one Italian shepherd on the night of his cabin was struck by twenty people, who simply did not provide them with help, the question of what would have happened to them and the second day the carabiniers knocked on his door, and against him is being conducted one procedure now. This example shows how wrong this directive is, unnecessary, and for this reason I appeal that really, given that it is not binding, we make a solution that will be most acceptable and will not lead to the position of criminalising people who only provide assistance to those who need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40715	Thank you. Okay, so now we're going to the committee reporter. I see that the Committee on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security, Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership, has no representatives, therefore here is the president, the current chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of fellow Radin, so here is the report from the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40716	Yes, thank you very much, as a board member. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 9th session, 13 June 2017, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 25 May 2017. The Committee considered the Final Bill as an interested working body. The Committee was sent with amendments from the Ombudsman, Jesus ’ Service for Refugees, the Croatian Legal Centre and the Peace Studies Centre. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act, but of course he gave the 5 amendments, which would now be too difficult to read but however Mr Katic, I would ask that during the final word or when you will take the matter, that you refer to these amendments, because they are on the Committee on Human Rights which I think is very much invited to discuss the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Foreigners Act, were adopted most of them, of course, so it is, and they are very important all of them, so I would ask you to pay attention to them as you should otherwise pay attention to the amendments adopted on committees and not many times. So, the amendments are important, I'll only have a moment to finally refer to what was said, because that example of this shepherd in Italy, who hosted, who helped, better said to refugees, migrants and who had the police right the same night or first thing in the morning with him. The example is also listed on our committee by another SDP agent. As a counterweight it's said, it doesn't say in the report here, but I do care to say it. As a counterweight, it is said that except for those who in this way, and this was indeed an innocent man, that there was one whole network of mobsters in helping, exploiting migrants. The whole business, the whole business developed around it, so one balance must be taken between those two things when it's being discussed. I see Mr. Orepic's climate, so I think the thing is quite present. So, in the end, as I said unanimously, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Foreigners Act with these amendments, which you are praying to be readable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40717	Thank you. I would now like to ask the president of the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to present a report from the work of this committee to a respected colleague, Boza Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40718	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the representatives of the Government, therefore the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, met unanimously in December 2016 when this law was in the emergency procedure and decided to respond to this law by amendment because it was only possible at the time, given that it was in an emergency procedure. And it is that the existing Law on Foreigners as well as this proposal to amend and supplement Article 2 paragraph 1 reads: "The foreigner is a person who is not a Croatian citizen." Therefore, the intensity of the committee or amendments that the Committee has given is to make the necessary distinction between members of the Croatian people and foreigners at both symbolic and essential level. Since, in an explanation, this final draft of the law, the legislator actually explained that by accepting such an amendment, that is to say, such a formulation would create certain legal gaps, we organised a few meetings on behalf of the board... The representatives, therefore the MUP, were also experts from the Croatian Central Office outside the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And at that meeting, we discussed this problem. Since I will take part in an individual debate, so in this debate, I will also make an argument on my own, but I would like to say that at the last session held last Thursday, the Committee unanimously concluded that the Committee remains at this intensities that it is necessary to make this distinction in the Foreign Law, i.e. the proposal to amend and supplement the Foreign Law. But the board also gave, therefore, freedom to the proposer that I propose a formulation which will, therefore, satisfy the essence of this intensity. Therefore, I did not prepare, or we did not prepare the amendments on behalf of the board at this time. But I would also like to inform the Parliament and the promoters that, on my own personal behalf, I will propose this same amendment, which the Committee proposed in December, of course, in the course of the debate before declaring this law that the Proposer accepts this formulation as its amendment or propose one other which may be more appropriate. What's this about? Therefore, it is clear that the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Croats with foreign citizenship or without Croatian citizenship, cannot be resolved only through this law. Some things can be done through the Law on Citizenship, that is, the liberalisation of that law,... So admission to Croatian citizenship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Others are being dealt with through other laws, but it is necessary in this law and what is also the practice of some other countries we want to compare ourselves with, which we strive to actually send through this law a message not only to our countrymen without citizenship but also to the institutions of the Republic of Croatia that have done almost nothing to resolve this issue, that through a number of other laws, now I would not list them here. The promoter himself, therefore, cited them in his own explanation. So do what is necessary in order to actually give Croats without citizenship most of them, of course, outside the Republic of Croatia, a message that here is their country to them who live their Croatians and without citizenship and that, therefore, they would make a necessary distinction between them and foreigners by not wanting to complicate the institutions of the Republic of Croatia with this problem. But the fact is that some countries, so here we are in neighbouring Slovenia, have dealt with it in a proper way, is actually a message for all of us to also approach this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40719	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to open up the debate. And the first appeared on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the distinguished representative Vlaho Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40720	Dear Mr Vice-President, representatives of the proposings, respected colleagues and fellow representatives of the new Foreigners Act was adopted in 2013 when it is in line with 22 directives, i.e. recommendations, decisions and resolutions of European and legal property, and is now further aligned with 3 new directives, but directives which mainly relate to labour legislation. The bridge of independent lists will support this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law and we understand the urgency of the adoption of this law. We must also say that we regret the haste, the reason that the Ministry of the Interior has lagged behind in the process of carrying out the revision process and the adoption of a brand-new Foreign Law, and that it did not persist in the overall arrangement of this area. The law is that it aligns with a number of these many directives, which does a range of areas that regulates the entry, stay and work of foreigners very extensive and demanding, but it is already clear that this matter should be absolutely divided through 3 laws that each individual would cover clear units. For example, if the area of labour legislation were to be singled out as a special whole, provisions relating to EU citizens would also be separated from those relating to foreigners, or third-country nationals. It should be reiterated that the European Commission has informed us that prejudicial proceedings for infringement of EU law have been initiated, due to failure to comply with the obligations to transpose the 3 directives. Directive 2014/67EU on the sending of workers to the framework for the provision of services in the amending EU Regulation No 10/24 of 2012 in administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System and Directive 2014/36 of the EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment in seasonal workers status. I Directive 2014/66EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions for the entry and stay of third-country nationals as part of intra-corporate transfers. And that's the only reason why this law needs to be passed in a hurry. The remarks were indeed sufficient, primarily by the Centre for Peace Studies, the Attorney General, the Green Action, was also a quality parliamentary debate and that's good. Part of them is also respected, but most of them primarily referred to the need as clear a definition of illegal assistance to foreigners. We really need to be here, because of the experiences we've had, we need to be very careful. I therefore believe that it is good that the law now clearly defines what is considered an illegal residence of foreigners, under number one. Then what procedures will translate a foreigner who is illegally staying and a foreigner who is staying in a short-term stay into a language that the stranger understands. The categories of foreigners who are entitled to free legal aid are then listed and, as it includes, who can provide it, and where a stranger does not have the right to do so. It is also defined as insurance when performing, observing forced distances, within the meaning of Article 8, the position. Directive 2008/115EC, and precisely cited the reasons, and the precise indication of the reasons for the accommodation of foreigners in the reception centre for foreigners, with the definition of the powers to search and take biometric data, as well as the assessment of age, as well as the compensation of the costs of forced distance. All in all, in view of the above, as well as the fact that the proposal regulates extremely important areas, issues, of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the Most Independent Lists Club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act, of course with a recommendation that more rapid adoption of a comprehensive law, or more laws requiring the current security moment. I primarily think about the situation of increased movement of foreigners, especially migrants, and also the inevitable need for a more high-quality labour solution that we lack and will inevitably have to come to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40721	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Steve Culei. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40722	Your Honor, Vice President. A colleague of Orepić, the Foreign Law, has many holes to fill, as well as the filling of the population in Croatia over the centuries has been filled from the pool BIH. So I would like to point out, in addition to all these foreigners who are coming to us, some remain, and some pass only through Croatia, I would refer to your work as Minister of the Interior, when you know for what reasons you have wiped out our citizens, compatriots from Herceg Bosnia, who are not found at their registered residences in Croatia. So, it's about people, I'm just going to say one example, which I can't shut up about, the wartime commander of special police Orasja, a war friend of General Đura Matuzovic, and others has been driven out of our country of Croatia, a man who has a registered residence in Croatia, near Osijek, who has his own country at sea, who has registered 2 cars in Croatia, whose two children finished school in Croatia and 3 children in Županja go to high school, so they are only because of the need for the election of past ones removed from Croatia as well as many others, according to your instructions, which you have directed specifically towards the territory of Metković, Gruda, so around Dubrovnik and Vukovar. The fact is that in the vicinity of Mirko Kljajic's residence, there is the same house where up to 40 non-Croatians from neighbouring Serbia were reported, in Vukovar there was no number of such housing units in which more than 10 people were reported, but Mirko Kljaic had to leave his country for whom he fought and died, 80% of the military disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40723	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Orepić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40724	Mr. Culey, if you have fought for the Republic of Croatia as I have, I hope you understand that you have not fought for privileges in the Republic of Croatia. Under number two, no one has the right to enforce official laws of the Republic of Croatia, nor does anyone have the right to derrogate them in their implementation, which was the case. The defense of the homeland was my duty, not the acquisition of rights, which you must remember and repeat every morning. And please, every state official must necessarily protect the implementation of the full law of the Republic of Croatia. Please, that's how we all approach each other here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40725	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40726	...respected representatives of the MUP, respected colleagues and colleagues. It hasn't been a year yet, and we're still discussing amendments to the Foreign Law, which means we've spent a lot of time and energy, and we haven't achieved anything. It is an important law from which a number of circumstances do not suit those we call informal members of national minorities, primarily Roma with unresolved status of residence and citizenship, but also Croats outside Croatia and others who have a strong connection with our country. The National Minority Representatives’ Club and the Advocate General have made an objection to Article 19 of the Law amending Article 56. The law on foreigners in such a way as to define that in the case of a member of a member of the Croatian citizen's family seeking temporary stay for the purpose of joining a family, no foreign travel document shall be required if it cannot be obtained in the diplomatic representation of a foreign country in the Republic of Croatia or where the procedure for obtaining a foreign travel document would result in family separation. The same observation was made to the parliamentary debate. The application to my regret was not accepted at the Committee on Human Rights by the MUP because foreigners who do not have a valid travel document came to the meeting in a way that allows them to approve a temporary stay with a period of validity of up to a year in which they are obliged to regulate their national path to the correction of Article 52(3) of the applicable Foreign Law. However, it is entirely incorrect that a stranger is required to regulate his national law within a year because, as no provision of the Foreign Law, he does not prescribe such a thing. It only points to the practice of a body that does not have a standstill in the law. Furthermore, the current provisions of the Act on Foreigners in Article 52 do not stipulate that, in the event of an extension of a temporary stay, a foreigner is obliged to apply a foreign travel document, so it is not prescribed that a valid travel document should be present but only travel documents resulting in the fact that it may be a travel document with which the stranger has previously regulated the stay. These two facts, which I quote, have in practice had a negative impact on the difficult position of the Roma national minority that I represent and led to situations where families, underage children and mothers were separated and, in addition to the socially threatened obligation to go to Kosovo, for example, to regulate travel documents, which represented an impossible mission for them. Although biometric passports have begun to be issued to the Embassy of BiH and the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Croatia, while the Embassy of Kosovo in the Republic of Croatia issues passports with which their citizens in the Republic of Kosovo can take out a biometric passport, it has not significantly affected the situation of Roma or other foreigners in a difficult social situation, especially since we have witnessed numerous cases in which persons have been allowed to leave the Republic of Kosovo and have failed to return to the Republic of Croatia after returning and return to their families. Considering that I was on the ground mostly facing persons affected by these legal provisions, and that they are obviously closely linked to the Republic of Croatia not only to family ties, but also to other permanent links, and given that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is a national state and the Roma national minority. I believe that the adoption of amendments which would vote that foreigners with the approval of temporary stay do not have to meet the conditions laid down in Article 54(2), where a foreign travel document cannot be obtained in the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Croatia or where the procedure for obtaining a foreign travel document results in family separation constitutes a human act and can significantly facilitate living conditions for non-classical parties. In this regard, we also advocate that members of the Croatian citizen's family who is seeking temporary stay for the purpose of family integration are given the same opportunities when applying for temporary stay authorisation, which exists in the event of the authorisation of stay for humanitarian reasons or that the application for HZMO is not subject to prior application. I believe that everyone who can prove that they are unable to pay their own contribution is excluded from these payments. In particular, members of the Roma community have no opportunity to pay these contributions and therefore, despite the fact that they live there for years, they cannot exercise the right to both temporary and permanent stay, especially citizenship. In this regard, I and the National Minority Club both support the first amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, my home office, which points out that, in the executive foundations of the Constitution, our country is established as a national state of the Croatian people and national minorities guaranteeing equality in accordance with democratic norms. Members of the Croatian people and members of minority nations who are found to have a direct connection with the Republic of Croatia cannot be treated as foreigners. I remind you that the Roma we are talking about, which are informal minority members because they do not have citizenship, have also accepted Croatian names and faiths, customs, language, as well as other cultural and sociological patterns of the behaviour of the majority Croatian people. The treatment of persons who have found themselves on a temporary and permanent stay outside the Republic of Croatia who have previously stayed in the Republic of Croatia and who have achieved a significant relationship with the Republic of Croatia should not be treated as refugees... foreigners from remote parts of the world, as they should not do for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who are the Croatian national state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also support the other amendments to the Committee on Human Rights, and I would particularly like to refer to Amendment 5, which does not result in any material or financial benefit of the assistants, but is guided by the moral and humanitarian principles. I'm just in that part of being sensitive because national minorities are expecting help from most people, and that's something that's really holding me back. I believe that in the last refugee crisis we have shown both morals and humanitarian principles when it comes to refugees and that we have provided them with tens of thousands of humanely for what is commendable, which I support. And I believe that this practice should continue to be guided either by refugees or by foreigners in this case. Even Roma associations organized themselves and took part in it. I'm just sorry that I don't see that kind of moral value when we need to help our fellow Roma citizens who have been living in these areas for 700 years. In a recent tour of Roma violence with Secretary of State Mazhar of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, I pointed to the problem. And people who have spent years in housing have not so far witnessed such a condition. I wonder why we have so much sensitivity for strangers, which is commendable. But I don't understand why we don't have that feeling for our fellow Roma citizens who face similar and bigger problems on a daily basis, and it seems a little bit by the authorities to solve these problems. Finally, I would like to invite all my colleagues to support my amendment and all amendments to my parent committee to further improve this law, noting that I am sorry that the representatives of the MUP have disobeyed my demands from the very beginning of the year until recently we find a solution to the problems I have been talking about together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40727	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40728	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with associates, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Law. The proposal was accepted at the 3rd session of the Assembly held on 20 January 2017 in the first reading and was also discussed at the working bodies' meetings. I would also like to recall that the Law on Foreigners regulates the area of entry, residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia and that the Act on Foreigners has been in force since 1 January 2012. As we have had the opportunity to hear, this law is in line with a total of 22 directives, recommendations of a decision and similar, European acquis. And this bill also seeks to remove certain shortcomings in the current legal text observed during the implementation of the Foreign Law and also to bring the law into line with the new three EU directives, which have been adopted in the meantime. The proposed law therefore defines the following. The term seasonal worker and the activity which depends on the change of seasons in accordance with Directive 2014/36, then the conditions for the regulation of stay and work for up to 90 days and longer than 90 days, and the conditions for granting a residence permit and work for seasonal work, and the reasons for the termination and cancellation of the authorisation for seasonal work, intra-corporate transfer and what is considered to be a group of companies in accordance with Directive 2014/66. Then define who is considered to be a posted worker, under which conditions can carry out tasks in the Republic of Croatia, then ensure judicial protection and administrative cooperation and information. The conditions for regulating the stay and work of persons transferred within the company are then regulated, the tasks carried out by each of those categories are defined, the conditions for the authorisation of short- and long-term mobility, the reasons for the deduction and cancellation of the residence permit and the work issued to the transferred worker. It is also defined and prescribed that members of the family of Croatian citizens regulate their status in accordance with the provisions governing the status of third-country nationals with eased status regulation. A new purpose of temporary stay is also foreseen to regulate the status of persons in the life partnership, more specifically defined categories of foreigners whose stay is approved for a specific purpose will not be included at the time necessary for the approval of permanent stay. The registration of foreign persons on a short stay is then more specifically arranged, the provisions on refusal to enter, or exit from the Republic of Croatia, as well as the measures taken towards a foreigner who is illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia are further discussed. It also defines what is considered an illegal stay of a stranger. The categories of foreigners are listed as having the right to free legal aid and which this legal aid includes. There are also reasons for the accommodation of foreigners in the reception centre for foreigners. The proposed law also adds provisions relating to documents, registration and check-out of residence and residence for those categories of persons and also complies with all proposed amendments and additions to the updated and infringement provisions. All comments and proposals made through the reading have been considered and the final draft law in part has been amended in relation to the Amendments and Supplements Act. Thus, the comments of the Committee on Legislatives which were of a new technical nature were accepted and were incorporated into the text of the final draft law. As regards the observations of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in Article 2 paragraph 1 of the final proposal of the Law, the definition of an extramarital community has been deleted and Article 15 amending Article 47 is amended. The law on foreigners has been added that a third-country national can regulate a temporary stay for the purpose of a life partnership. On the basis of the above, the definition of a rope family as prescribed in Article 56 of the applicable Foreign Act has not been amended. Furthermore, Article 16 of the final draft law amending Article 48 of the applicable law added that life or an informal life partner may apply for the approval of a temporary stay for the purpose of a life partnership and in a police department or police station, and Article 19 of the final proposal of the law added a new Article 56b) which provides for the conditions of approval of a temporary stay for the purpose of a life partnership. Article 22 of the final draft law was amended in accordance with Article 73(3) of the applicable law, in order to allow both life or non-formal life partners who have been granted a temporary stay with a Croatian national, a third-country national who has an approved permanent stay or who has been granted international or temporary protection may work without a residence permit and work permit or certificate of application of work. In the final draft of the law, part of the application of the clubs to Article 58 of the Law and related to the achievement of free legal aid is partially respected. In accordance with European legislation, EU Member States may impose restrictions on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance in the return procedure in the following cases. Where a court or other competent authority considers that the appeal has good prospects for success, then to those persons who do not have sufficient resources, then through services provided by legal advisers or other advisers specifically designated in national legislation to assist prosecutors and to represent them. And in the first degree appeal procedures, but not for further complaints and questionings. The approval of free legal representation in the administrative dispute, for all migrants in the return process, is not justified, for financial reasons and for reasons of purpose. The cost of free legal representation is about 4000 kuna per person. Free legal representation in the administrative dispute is justified only in cases where there is a connection between foreigners and the Republic of Croatia, as in the cases mentioned in the draft law, which are the long-term duration of stay because a stranger has been in the Republic of Croatia for a year, then for example. the family relationship because the stranger has a family member in the Republic of Croatia, and the fact that he is born in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the time the stranger stays in the Republic of Croatia after birth. In view of the above, the proposal was accepted to include legal advice in the definition of legal representation together with legal representation in the administrative dispute, and to provide legal advice to all foreigners in the return process and to those not located in the centre. A proposal from the Croatian Association of Workers' Unions concerning the judicial protection of seasonal workers pursuant to Directive 2014/36 of the EU, on the conditions for entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as seasonal workers, has also been accepted. Moreover, in the final proposal, minor amendments are made to certain articles in order to comply with Directive 2014/67EU, then the Pension Insurance Act and the Infringement Act. The adoption of this proposed law will regulate the stay and work of seasonal workers and persons transferred within the company in the manner prescribed by Directive 2014/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014, the conditions for the entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment in the status of seasonal workers and Directive 2014/66 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014, the conditions for the entry and stay of third-country nationals in the context of intra-corporate migration. The adoption of this law also achieves a very important objective, which is to establish a common framework for the relevant provisions, norms, measures and control mechanisms necessary for better and more efficient implementation, application and enforcement in the practice of Directive 96/71, including measures to prevent and punish any abuse and circumvent existing rules. So, on the one hand, the adoption of this law creates a good framework for facilitating and effective regulation of the residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand we create a strong control mechanism for ensuring security in the country, which is very important at the moment that we are together with all other countries in the environment and beyond. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. For this reason, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law and we believe in its very positive effects in implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40729	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, a respected representative, Miranda Mrsic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40730	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I am sorry that in all these discussions so far we have not touched this other part of this law which is much more appropriate for our citizens because it concerns jobs and the entry of seasonal workers into Croatia and that is something I want to talk about. As far as this first part of the law, which was essentially used by the Ministry of the Interior, used to revise some parts that are related to asylum seekers and foreigners entering Croatia. I am pleased that the proposal to ban aid is more clearly defined, and helping is not considered to be what starts for humanitarian reasons, so I am glad that this part is respected. But I'm going to look back at the important part, and that's, that's, that's the implementation of three important directives on the labour market. In the first row, I am sorry that there is no one here from the Ministry of Labour who is in principle and competent for these three directives, and that means that I hope that by the end of the year we should adopt a new Act on Foreigners that will be completely separate. So this part about work, the working directives should go to the Ministry of Labour and Pensions and have a special law, and this law, therefore on foreigners, should be based on what it really is. Each of the three directives has a certain impact on the labour market, and the aim of these directives is to ensure a uniform approach by all EU Member States to regulate migration policy and its impact on labour market policies. It also allows EU Member States to impose certain restrictions on national legislation when transposing the provisions of the directive to protect their labour market and to ensure priority in the employment of their own citizens and other EU citizens, and to protect workers by preventing the abuses that they may experience in migration. And I am sorry that the representative, therefore, of the HDZ Club, did not in any way refer to this very important segment that these three directives introduce into our legislation. They are extremely important because they enable the employment of foreign workers in Croatia, so whether it is the work of foreign workers in the framework of the freedom to provide services as outsourced workers, whether it is seasonal employment of third-country workers. And I personally believe that the transposition of the directive into national legislation should not only be understood as a mere copying of the provisions of the directive, but every directive must also have a certain policy against the matter being regulated by the Directive. Unfortunately, here in this law it wasn't done. So we haven't protected our labour market and that's what the message of this law is. In fact, the Directives always represent minimum standards below which it cannot be, but can be above these standards and they are very flexible because they allow Member States to regulate their labour market with minimum standards so as to reduce adverse consequences. And by reading this law, I can clearly read two things. First of all, that the Government has transposed the provisions of the directive into the law without protecting the Croatian labour market and that this way of regulation does not in any way affect the reduction of normative arrangements and facilitating access to the employers of our labour market, but further complicates employers' behaviour in Croatia and the even more regulatory mess we have in Croatia. Because if we're talking about sending workers to work abroad, we have that stuff in five laws and regulations. One is the Labour Act, the other is the Law on Foreigners, the third is the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation on the Coordination of the Social Security System, the Law on Labour Inspection and the Specific Regulation, which will determine the necessary elements for a general change. And a special regulation that will regulate the process of submission of mandatory content and form of reference declarations. So when gentlemen of the employer comes to Croatia and he goes to see which law regulates workers who come from countries and work in Croatia, it is no wonder he can't manage because he no longer knows what law he writes. So I would like to hear from the government's representatives that they think that a foreign service provider can manage in these forest regulations and that they think such a way of facilitating business in Croatia. That's why I'm pleading and calling on the Government to thoroughly rework this law because we no longer know what article of the law is that and that this matter of labour law is being transferred to the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. The second message is that this proposal sends an absolute message to Croatian citizens that it does not care about providing jobless workers in Croatia, but it is obvious that the government's intention is to fully open the Croatian labour market and liberalise it further in a way that facilitates the employment of third-country workers in seasonal affairs. This is what this law adopts and in this, if we adopt it in this form in which we fully open the labour market to seasonal employment of third-country workers. This would not be some big problem if practice and until current experience confirmed that we would thus employ low-skilled labour from our neighbouring countries, leading to additional pressure on the labour price in the Republic of Croatia and further influence the reduction of the labour standards achieved. That's what employers want. Employers strongly urge this form of law to be adopted. Rather than providing jobs for our workers, the government, regardless of the lack of workers at this time, this season's jobs, opens borders for workers from 3 countries, which will further reduce the cost of working in Croatia and even more drive young people from Croatia to look for their jobs somewhere outside Croatia's borders. Therefore, this is also a law that goes directly against migration policy in Croatia, against population policy in Croatia, because it will enable us to import workers from third countries that we will pay low, and our young people, the unemployed will leave Croatia because they do not want to work for such low wages. In fact, what I'm saying is that the directive has very clearly set minimum standards without us using this law to raise these standards to a higher level and to protect our labour market. In fact, the law clearly states that the number of seasonal workers from third countries is still said to be able, which is expected not to establish quotas for their employment in practice, there is no limit to the employment of seasonal workers from third countries, in a way that enables such employment and if it is not possible to find a suitable worker in Croatia and if the directive only leaves that possibility. The activities considered seasonal are not determined, but the possibility of employment being fully open in all activities that belong to a very wide definition of seasonal activity is put in place. I am interested in whether civil activity will be considered a seasonal activity under the proposal of this law. The conditions under which authorisation for the employment of seasonal workers can be granted in relation to employers who do not comply with regulations and who are employed on black have been flexiblely determined which sends a message that Croatia does not care to prevent these harmful actions of employers, although the European Commission has repeatedly stressed that illegal work in Croatia needs to be contained. This policy of the government and HDZ, in fact, tolerates such a phenomenon and still encourages it with its solutions and to the harm of our workers. Such a government policy against the Croatian labour market, especially in the circumstances of the departure of a large number of young people from Croatia, and a high share of long-term unemployed and high share of low-skilled labour, is extremely harmful, embarrassing to the relationship with our unemployed workers, and once again finds that this government's policy does not build the competitiveness of the labour market on the well-paid workforce of Croatia, but at a low paid workforce, preferably imported from third countries. Therefore, I would like to ask a few questions to the representatives of the Government, although unfortunately it is probably the Ministry of the Interior, very difficult for people to answer these questions, so what I am interested in, a very strong directive leaves certain mechanisms for protecting the domestic labour market from the invasion of seasonal workers from third countries, which is why, when transforming this directive into a law, none of the mechanisms has been incorporated into the law itself. So is the government's policy to facilitate the arrival of seasonal workers from third countries? If so, why and what are the reasons for that? Or is it the government's policy to protect the Croatian labour market as far as possible in the frameworks to become a directive, if so, why is it not done by this law? What is the general government policy towards labour migration? Does the government want to fully open the labour market and is this law within the framework of such a policy? For what reason has this law not introduced the Institute of Responsibilities in the subcontraction prescribed by the Directive on the implementation of the Directive to the addressed workers? I'd like to hear from the government, does such a policy against domestic workers show patriotism that, with which HDZ always rises and which HDZ is full of mouths? Whether the Government plans to import labour policy in increasing foreign employment quotas, which we have already had the opportunity to see this year, allow a large number of third-country workers to come to Croatia and thus force our workers out of the possibility of getting a job. And final. Obviously, there was no critical mass in the Ministry of Labour and Pensions system that would implement these directives, because I'm sure that this bill would not come before us, but I may be wrong. And finally, with the proposal to amend and supplement the Foreign Law, the government has fully revealed its policy in the light of the way the Croatian labour market is regulated, which is complete flexibility, liberalisation and the opening of the Croatian labour market and the labour force of third countries, so to us neighbouring countries, with the aim of reducing labour prices. That this also confirms the fact that the provisions of the proposal clearly show that no safeguard mechanisms have been introduced in the adoption of the directive, and after the government has increased its quota decision to import foreign labour into Croatia, it is clear that the following quotas will be even greater and that Croatia will be... for workers from third countries, and that our workers will leave Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What concerns is the fact that such a policy, not that new jobs are created, but that the existing ones also want to fill the low-skilled foreign labour force from third countries, and this will affect the reduction in labour prices. Personally in such a policy where foreigners are placed in front of our citizens and even in relation to such a desirable job, I see no patriotism, but a distinct benefit of the ruling majority. I am sorry that this bill has not been approached as it was meant to be, which is that the government protects its citizens, protects the Croatian labour market rather than allowing existing jobs to be employed and third-country workers to be employed, and that our workers who can be employed in these same jobs will go outside to Germany, Austria, Ireland, and so on. Gentlemen, where's your soul? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40731	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will speak the honourable representative of Stjepan Curaj. Excuse me, there was a replica between the distinguished representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40732	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague. As far as your exposure is concerned, I just have to say that we can't agree on everything, especially with regard to your observations on the seasonal employment of third-country workers. Many of your amendments have also been addressed by the Proposer in the light of the bill's proposal, so I believe that you have considered all this well and I will simply say that it is very visible that in 2015, 2016, a quota of 15 seasonal employment permits was set in 2017. So it's not some big rush to hire workers from third countries. I must say, therefore, that there are no objections to you and that they are somewhat unfounded, that there should be no fear of excessive migration of seasonal workers from third countries. Furthermore, Article 8(4) of the seasonal workers Directive provides that Member States may refuse to grant authorisations if the employer has fired workers within 12 months for filling the place of seasonal workers. In accordance with Article 75a(6) of the final proposal for a law, it is provided that for the reasons set out above, an application for an authorisation for stay and work will be rejected. It is therefore evident that the legislator has taken care of the protection of Croatian workers in this way. And as for the pursuit of employers, I think it is also very clear that Article 2 of the final proposal what is considered to be activities that depend on changing seasons which are related to a certain period of the year to a certain recurring event or set of events related to seasonal conditions during which the level of labour required exceeds the level of labour required for normal current business, as well as activities in which seasonal workers are allowed are prescribed as agriculture, forestry, tourism and catering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40733	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40734	Thank you very much. I don't know where the data came from, but it's completely wrong. In 2017, 7026 import licences for the work of foreigners were approved in Croatia, which is ten times more than in 2013 and 2014. Employers are asking for 19 thousand permits to import labour force, so that 19 thousand foreign workers arrive in Croatia which would be a terrible blow to our labour market because it is clear that workers from these third countries are cheaper for employers for various reasons without wanting to pay our workers as much as they deserve. So instead of paying our workers honestly and it's time for employers to pour part of their profits into workers' salaries, therefore employers are asking for the import of cheap labour and the HDZ government approves. So 7026 licenses I say ten times what it was in 2012, 2013, 19 thousand are wanted by employers, and by this law you will make it very clear because the law says, and it can, whether or not it will limit, no one knows, depends on the government. And what it should be to limit labour force entry into Croatia by Directive and by law. Because what you're about to do, you already have the inscriptions and you can see it in media writings, of course you can't pay the waiter five thousand kunas in Dubrovnik, because when he pays for the accommodation and the food, then there's nothing left for him, so naturally, he won't be working for five thousand kunas. But maybe someone from BiH or some other countries might. But then ours will go to Ireland or Austria or somewhere else for a much higher salary instead of Dubrovnik. So this law is what you do, driving our workers out of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40735	Thank you very much. And now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will speak the honourable representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40736	Thank you, Vice President. Honored colleagues and colleagues, authorised promoters. Here's just a little bit tied up in front of the HNS club. I'll look back at the remarks we made in the previous readings. First of all,... together with the SDP club, something with the national minority, and it is related to the objection to Article 58 of the Law, which is, in this final proposal, Article 57 of the Law on the right to receive free legal aid. Of course, the remark was partly adopted and we are satisfied with that, above all with regard to the approval of free legal representation in the administrative dispute, we felt it was justified and it was accepted. It is precisely that the legal advice or legal information is included in the definition of legal representation together with legal representation in the administrative dispute and that the legal advice is provided to all foreigners in the return process and to those not located in the centre. Of course, we also understand the argument regarding the approval of free legal representation in the administrative dispute for all migrants in the return process that it is not justified for financial reasons and for reasons of purpose. Next, I'm going to skip one, and I'm going to go back to a proposal that I think has got the most of the public confused. We also accept an explanation concerning the proposal in Article 49 of the Law, i.e. in the final law of Article 48 relating to the erasure of the provision, that a foreigner who repeats the infringements will be expelled, bearing in mind that they are placed in an unfavourable position by persons who have repeated an infringement of a type of improper parking or drunkenness in a public place. It is understood that, in accordance with the position of the European Court of Human Rights, the Directive frees movement, lays down general legal standards for exclusion applicable irrespective of whether or not it is a person with freedom of movement. And, of course, according to the applicable Foreign Law, banishment is not possible and I would certainly like to mention this without a decision by the competent authority which determines the existence of a breach of the rules which clearly arises and Article 107(2). So we accept the same argument. As regards the reference to Article 80(s) of the final draft of the Law, Article 79, which introduces the possibility of re-installation in the centre, since such possibility does not exist under the directive as it was then interpreted. The application of the Return Manual which contains the interpretation of the Directive is in accordance with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, it is determined that foreigners can be re-settled in... As stated in the final draft of the law, we accept the same reasoning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the most controversial part of our remark is concerned, the article 43 and what the public is talking about is helping strangers themselves or the word of trying to help them. What is clearly indicated here and what can be agreed that giving food, clothing and the like, and also providing accommodation to migrants who are illegally staying and who are motivated solely by the reasons for humanity and morale is not considered to help in terms of the directive we absolutely welcome. In fact, what we need to think about is that part of the story where it is helping and where it can be found a hole in the law regarding business, trafficking of people and everything that we have witnessed and of course what has been through Croatia but especially by sea. In this regard, this should be clearly stated. We also agree with the Human Rights Committee that this part should be explained in more detail and that someone should actually say exactly what it is or is not because humanitarian aiding absolutely is. And I don't see that with this exactly what I've cited and banned, however, I certainly understand colleagues who are afraid that someone who will say what was humanitarian and what was not, so that someone doesn't get hurt. We also had the same down in Slavonia, both in Osijek and Baranja. Col. Hajdukovic also mentioned, I personally collected assistance when it was the big crisis in which I think Croatia acted at a level not European but how it could be an example to other European countries because we had situations that were not so and elsewhere, and this was always in the extreme line and the directive on harmonisation with European laws and directives, that we could be an example to them. However, what it says is that only in cases such as life-saving, prevention and injury and emergency medical assistance could be justified by humanitarian reasons but this must be foreseen by national legislation. That's why you say the cases mentioned are in parentheses, saving lives, only that humanitarian example should be more elaborated because if someone comes, dies of hunger, you don't know if he's really hungry and if you give him something to eat or that's the basis for some criminal or criminal prosecution. I can also express my satisfaction that Article 47 adds to the point of the 5th Life Partnership, which also introduces that term in this law. However, first of all, I would like to ask one more question concerning Article 70 of this Law, namely the amendment of the law which states that the technical conditions for the detention of third-country nationals referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article will be laid down by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. There we also had on the board several questions regarding the accommodation of particularly minors whether it takes place in juvie homes or in specific centres. I also have a financial interest in these technical conditions that will be because this is what we said in your proposal that this law does not require additional funding. But I am interested and we know what it looked like, although we have received something from the EU, the European Commission regarding our concern for the refugees at the time and the care of the same but I am interested in these technical conditions exactly which may be the means provided, precisely whether they are also the discretionary decision of the ministry or the minister in which it will be financially affected. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40737	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. First came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Next is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And then the next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Miranda Mrsic, again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't expect to be here so soon. But here, on several occasions, we are talking about openness, so it is not a question of openness of the labour market, but it is a question of how to implement the EU directive while at the same time protecting its labour market. It's a key element of this law, gentlemen. On the other hand, when we talk about seasons and seasons are not a professional workforce, it is very clear that the opening of the Croatian labour market is unqualified while our professional workforce is leaving outside Croatia. And these are the facts that stand if such a law is passed as it is. I'm sorry again, fellow MPs, this isn't their matter, but this is the biggest consequence of this law. On the other hand, the government does not propose any measures to retain our professional people and yet opens again, I repeat, opening a very wide door to a very low-skilled workforce. If we are interested in protecting our own unemployed and allowing them to be employed, not opening doors to foreigners, any smart government would take advantage of the possibilities as if it were a directive. The directive very clearly prescribes minimum standards, so below that we cannot but above that we can. And that's what all countries do, we're the only country who's decided to transpose a directive with minimum standards and then open up the entire labour market, let's hire everyone in Croatia who can, and then our people will leave outside Croatia. So it is not easy to go outside Croatia, yet there is both country and everything else and that is something that needs to be said very clearly. On the other hand, this law is not only a matter of harmonisation with directives but also reflects the government's policy. So through these directives you can see the government's policy towards the labour market, which is complete liberalisation and allowing low-skilled labour force to enter Croatia. On the development of our labour market, it would be clear that the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, together with the Ministry of the Interior, is opening a broad debate because our labour market policy is obviously not well designed, we have neither vision nor strategy so that young professionals go outside Croatia and on the other hand, we allow us to employ low-skilled labour. With the bill's proposal, the government has fully revealed its policy in order to fully flexible and liberalise Croatia's labour market. That this is the case, confirms the fact that the provision of the bill shows that Croatia did not again, notingly, take advantage of any possibility of protecting the domestic labour market. Well, that's what's fraternizing. No possibility was used by the government to protect the Croatian labour market. This law allows foreigners to work in seasonal jobs, but again it would be interesting to see if construction is seasonal work. Or it's a job you've been doing all year except for the few months it's winter. We have asked the amendments, which are not respected to define exactly what seasonal jobs are, in such a way as to protect our workers on the HZZ, to get so much of the job they wanted. Because it is true that we now have a historically low number of unemployed in Croatia but on the other hand we have a large number of unemployed of our older citizens who could get a job on some of these jobs and we, with this law, allow for younger, cheaper, lower-skilled and qualified workforce to enter. And it is very clear that the government is in that direction because after years where we did not allow foreign labour force to enter Croatia as much as it was minimally possible, the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic and the Government of Andrej Plenkovic have wide opened the door for the entry of workers from third countries, and I expect that at the end of this year we will probably give one 12 to 15000 import licences, hence the permission to import labour from third countries, which will be a confirmation that the government is going towards maximum liberalisation of the labour market. What concerns is the fact that such a policy not only does not create jobs but the existing jobs want to be filled with labour from third countries. The job of the waiters in Dubrovnik, I look at Mrs. Putica, so Dubrovnik came to mind, the cooks in Dubrovnik are jobs that are permanent, they are seasonal, but they are permanent. And now we're going to fill them with third-country workers instead of filling them with our workers, and I'm glad that now the employers finally started building hotels where they're going to work and live, that they have paid food, so their standard is going to be higher, and what's going to happen? We will fill that with third country workers, instead of being one of the higher standards that is now much higher than it was in previous years, let us allow our workers to enjoy it. Our workers will go to Austria, Germany and other EU countries. Is it politics, is it patriotism, is it therefore something that the Croatian government should do or is it something that should have done differently? Yes, it had to implement the directive, but it had to implement the directive in a way that maximumly protected its labour market but clearly, and allowed employers to gain labour, but not in this way. And that is what is the problem with this law, we in the SDP will give amendments that we will try to fix because again I mention gentlemen, you have not used any option or directive to limit the labour market in Croatia, so that no cheap workforce enters Croatia. And one question for the end, which I hope my colleagues will know from the MUP. One very simple question. When you decided to implement such a directive, in this way, without restrictions, do you have any estimates at all, how many such people could enter Croatia annually, so that they will work as seasons from third countries? Have you ever done any evaluations when you wrote this law or have simply said so that everyone should come in, let them work in Croatia, and where will our workers be employed, let the German Government, the Austrian Government or others worry? So, gentlemen and with this law, the ruling majority has made very clear their intentions, and that is that the fragile labour market of Croatia that has begun to develop is being destroyed to the end and that we go hand in hand to employers, and that our young people who could fill those jobs and make a good living. Because why don't we pay waiters 7 to 10,000 kunas, chefs 10 to 15000 kunas because they're so worth it, because our labor force, unlike these, should no one be offended but our workforce is much more quality, much more experienced than that import workforce. But it's obvious that it's important for employers to gain cheap labour. But it will again be a double sword, because the citizens or tourists who come for vacation come to individual hotels because of the waiter, because of the cook, because of the receptionist, because of the quality of the service, because they have a person who knows their job. And in this way, we're going to bring down the quality of services in tourism when we're talking about a branch that needs the most seasons, which will result in a drop in our services, because we're simply going to be too expensive for strangers with a bad service. So this law does not only have consequences related to the labour market, but is also related to the economy. And I hope that the government will accept amendments that only go for one goal, which is to ensure that our citizens have a fair competition to get their jobs in Croatia without having to seek a job outside Croatia in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40739	Thank you. There are more replicas on your display. The first is the distinguished representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40740	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleague. I'm curious about this one thing. Are you going to uphold this law or not? So that's what I'm curious about. Answer me just so I know in advance. And on the other hand, here you are for 10 minutes, spinning one of those same mantras. From what I understand, you don't agree with that increase in quotas that are going to increase, because it's later on in the government. Well, I'm curious, in which way you would have, and you were in a position, you were the Minister of Labour if I wasn't mistaken. How would you find workers today, seasonal workers for all those caterers, tourist workers on the coast they need. I come from that region. We have a really absurd situation, that we have young people who are on the desk, and we have a labour deficit. So we're running out of labor. And very often, although there are opposite examples like you said we really have a situation that are sometimes paid and paid, but we also have examples of where the salaries are, very nice wages. But we simply can't find the workers, or the caterers, the tourist employees can't find them. So here are two questions. Will you support the law and, specifically, what would you have done, or have you not done when you were minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40741	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40742	So the SDP club will give amendments to this law. If those amendments support us, we'll be in favor of that law. If not, we'll be against it. Because the law definitely opens the Croatian labour market to a cheap workforce, and when you look at the government for four years of SDP, then at that time you will see that we ran a very restrictive policy with import licences for importing labour because we had a large number of unemployed. But what solves the problem of lack of labour in tourism, which employers are already doing but it is already too late, which is higher wages, secure and good accommodation, certainly a job. We have introduced the permanent season that this government is and you have supported it in this House you have made it completely impossible for employers to use it. What's a permanent season? So it's a person who has a de facto contract on indefinite time with a company or firm where he works. And so it allows a man to know that he will work every year and that he does not have to seek new employment, and it enables companies to have a good and good worker. And the permanent season is one measure that provides tourism activities with good and quality workforce. But what you need, why won't people do? So with 5,000 kn in Dubrovnik as a waiter who works 60 hours a week, that means 12 hours a day, 5 days or 10 hours in 6 days, is something that doesn't hold water. And if we want to keep our people, pay them fair and square, then they'll all work. Why do large houses have no such problems in providing labour? It's exactly what they're planning and what they're paying good money for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40743	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40744	Dear Representative Mrsic, I absolutely understand your concern about the employment of young people. Austria, for example, has given priority to employment workers who have testimony from Austria, and then to those who are citizens of EU countries, and only then to third-country workers. But you're an eclectic example of one person in two people. So, in March 2015, I will remind you as Minister of Labour, you have solemnly announced that most EU members are soon giving up the ban on Croatian employment. And then you kind of represented this idea of market liberalisation, and today you use it as former Czech Prime Minister Ižri Parobojka, who was shot at by eggs that stood up as a socialist for banning the employment of third-country workers. Because you're actually speaking more as a Eurosceptic today, as some representative of a nationalist movement, because if you look at the situation a little bit about the EU countries and the ban on employment for third-country workers, they are more for political reasons, and less because of the situation in the labour market itself. And lastly, I'm going to tell you one example, so from Dubrovnik that I heard two weeks ago, so the job in the laundry, 7 and a half thousand kuna per month, there is no person who would be employed from the Republic of Croatia, no interested ones who would come, partly because of those reasons that you listed, so that women from BIH are employed, and there is also another fact that should not be disturbed from mind, given the tourist season, that before 90's a significant number of seasonal workers came from BiH and Serbia, if you think and alluded to that part of people who could be potential seasonal workers from third countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40745	Thank you. The answer to Mrsic's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40746	It is clear, therefore, that when we joined the EU, in our agreement with the EU, it is very clear that every country, member of the EU, can limit the employment of our fellow citizens, 3.2, and 3, so it can be a total of 7 years, 8 years can be a ban on employment. And some countries have taken advantage of it, and so have we in those countries... Reciprocal measure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, as a person who advocated EU accession, I was extremely glad that many EU countries did not impose that ban, then neither can we, while some countries, for their own reasons, have done so more politically than objectively. However, Austria now has a problem with growing unemployment and it has used the directive and it does not need to mix the directive with our accession to the EU common market, because the EU's common market without borders, hence free flow of goods, people and capital. And that's what you're talking about, so you're no Eurosceptic, but that's hell, I was glad that a lot of countries hadn't introduced that ban. But what we're talking about right now is our local situation, where the government didn't even take advantage of a single chance to do what Austria has, because Austria did it in the directive and, in its law, says that they can limit the employment of foreign workers compared to their fellow citizens. We make the law the way it is, we won't be able to do that. Because we will be sued immediately by the European Court of Justice. Because in our law, we can't put a ban on it, that's to say, our advantage is to have ours, who have our testimony to some of our schools or more schools or colleges, so we can't do that, because we didn't put it in the law, and we could.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40747	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40748	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, throughout your debate, you are constantly trying to underline the tendency that only you from the SDP Club are concerned about whether our people, our country workers, will be able to find a job, and we at HDZ are very opposed to that, I guess. It's not like that. You yourself know, very well, that the problem of highly educated employment will not be solved by this law. It is also very clear to you on your point that the remark is unwarranted and since the directive provides for the possibility for each Member State to introduce a quota, as you yourself have said, and the quota is brought by the Government on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, if you think of the Employment, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and the representatives of the social partners, imagine that all of them, i.e. that none of them will take care of whether there are adequate labour forces in the Republic of Croatia before granting quotas. I don't think they will, that it's in everyone's interest to hire our unemployed first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40749	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40750	Dear Representatives Jelkovac, so it is not a problem of highly educated, so every EU country, and we will gladly receive any highly educated person working on our labour market, but here are the problem of seasonal affairs, it is usually low-educated personnel, cheap labour force, and that is what I am fighting here and I want to point out that we have to protect our labour market, because Austria could limit the employment of foreigners in this way as a respected colleague said, but we will not be able, because we do not have it in the law, we did not even put it, at least that somewhere in one article we said that the government could prescribe order, that they primarily have in certain activities the rights of employment of our fellow citizens with our diplomas. But we are nowhere, therefore, all of us, and those from third countries, not only those from the EU, but those from third countries will also have the same rights as our workers, but what is also, why is the amendment. We in the amendment very clearly want to say that the government must bring quotas, it cannot, between can and must be 19 thousand import licences. When we talk about this syntagma, if we say it must bring quotas, then the government must also consult with all interested and then bring quotas to import labour. And that's the difference between the can and the sea is the 19 thousand fate of Croatian workers, 19 thousand jobs that we will fill with a low-educated workforce from third countries, and our 19 thousand will go outside Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40751	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Sanja Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40752	Dear Representative Mrsic, when you have mentioned Dubrovnik and the entire Croatian coast so many times, I believe you know that the fact that Croatia's tourism today lacks 5,000 people who would fill the jobs on the coast speaks enough about what kind of problem we are in. I think that here in general we are not only talking about the problem of labour shortages or quotas that the government can or must bring, but we are talking about a deep national problem, which is an extremely bad demographic image of the Republic of Croatia, which is certainly not even going to be improved by these measures, but it is about a comprehensive national policy. However, I would just like to introduce you to the fact that in Dubrovnik people who are owners of catering facilities, here I am now talking about private people to call them that, without these being some large hotel or catering houses, these workers are paying for accommodation throughout the season in which they need them, and that in Dubrovnik, currently two large hotel houses, two large hotel chains have joined the construction of residential buildings, and apparently this concept of permanent season will continue to look for their foundations in our work system. I would just like to draw attention to one fact, which is that the Ministry of Science and Education in cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism, but also the Ministry of Labour is launching a procedure for setting up a centre of competence which seems to me to be very important for this problem, and we are also talking about the education of seasonal workers, education of workers who have lower qualifications and I think that we should work very hard to get better working strength and that we would now have these young people in our secondary catering and tourist schools and offer them jobs in which they will be very professional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40753	The answer of the distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40754	Thank you very much. We've agreed to two, so we have the same thoughts about seasons. I know that big hotel houses are building residential facilities for their seasons and that's how we're going to make sure that people choose catering schools and do seasonal jobs and that's something that finally came to employers' heads that without it they won't have a quality workforce. It is clear that if we adopt the laws as we have adopted, as you have suggested to adopt, that we will open the door wide for the departure of young people because hotel houses will rather hire someone who is cheaper to him than our worker from Croatia and that people will leave Croatia. One of the problems with tourism is that Slavonia has moved out, seasons have always been in the pool of Slavonia and it was known that the Slavons are coming to work in the summer and they are quality and good workers to work in tourism in Dalmatia. However, Slavonia has moved out and with what we are doing now we will move out even more to Slavonia and the demographic image is not good for us, so it will be even worse for us. So this should also be seen in the light of demographic policy that this is bad for demographics, bad for Croatia, bad for tourism because first we will not have good labour, we will have low-skilled, low-paid labour, the quality of tourism will be worse for us, and that will result in a decline in the quality of our tourist offer. Therefore, this is not only a question of quotas and imports of labour from third countries, but this is a question of economy and tourism and all that, not to talk about construction, shipbuilding, etc., etc. Without well-paid jobs, this problem will not be solved, and this way as it is now trying is something that will not bring good to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40755	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40756	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable fellow MPs. Here I'm going to get some more on these labour import quotas, just a little bit on my side. While I was listening to Mrsic, I really didn't know if he was a member of the HSP or a member of the SDP, given one position that is quite rigid towards a foreign workforce that should come to Croatia eventually, but I would agree that this is a demographic issue so that we will have this problem more often and more often in the next periods, and that as a state, we will first of all have to work on the demographic recovery, and that we will have to address this demographic issue which is the most painful issue for the state of Croatia and this problem that we have talked about today. Furthermore, the standard I would say almost becomes, accommodation almost becomes a standard today in coastal Croatia when we talk about seasonal labour might still work to stimulate in some way all those who need labour to enable this accommodation to all those who do not have a place of residence and places where they want to work. It's still a very important moment if someone, for example, does. from Sibenik he wants to work in Dubrovnik and he doesn't have a few months at home, which is logically going to Germany where there is a higher labour price, so again we come to that main problem of our underdevelopment, or at the beginning of the low labour price, and therefore people go away. I would like to commend this working team in front of the applicant in front of the MUP who, however, since the last reading, has changed some of the things they have been warned about, and this is about Article 87 where it was obvious to comply with the European Community Directive or the Council of Europe Directive, where Article 2 of the family member means that it is a spouse, then a partner with whom a Union citizen has a registered community under the legislation of a Member State, if, by the law of the host Member State, the registered community is equal to the marriage community. In that first reading as if someone had not read the Constitution, he forgot that in our Constitution there is an article 62 where the family stands under the special protection of the state, marriage is a life union of women and men, so that the item that was there about informal partners that are also living partners that family members within the meaning of this law has been expelled and I am glad that this Final Bill is acceptable when we talk about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40757	Thank you. The next debate should be that of the distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Now it is the individual debate of the distinguished representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40758	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives, respected representatives of the government. As I said just before, when I spoke on behalf of the Committee, the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia discussed this pragmatism of the Foreign Law and the Committee unanimously proposed an amendment that voted for Croats with foreign citizenship or without citizenship were not considered foreigners within the meaning of this law. Why? According to the current law in Article 2, paragraph 1 reads: “The stranger is a person who is not a Croatian citizen.” In fact, by saying all members of the Croatian people without citizenship are defined as foreigners and the intensity is actually a committee and I believe the intensity of all of us in the Croatian Parliament to make a distinction between members of the Croatian people and foreigners as well as on the symbolic, therefore, essential level. In the first row, this refers to the rights to enter, move, stay and work in the Republic of Croatia's persons of nationality, which should therefore be equated with Croatian citizens because of the economic and demographic interest of the Republic of Croatia as well as the constitutional obligation of Croatia. This constitutional obligation has, of course, been translated into the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly and into the section of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, among other things, the jobs put in place and the establishment and monitoring of policies. In the process of passing laws and other regulations, the Committee shall have the right and duties of the home working body in areas covered by the legal and actual position of parts of the Croatian people and Croatian minorities in other countries and shall propose measures to improve all co-operation with a view to achieving and protecting the rights and preservation of national identity. So finished quote from the Rules of Procedure. And in one of the previous meetings of this Parliament, the former government tried to point out this illogicality that members of the Croatian people without citizenship are treated as foreigners but without success. Instead, amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship were made to the Croatian people, which further complicated the procedure for obtaining Croatian citizenship and also complicated the acquisition of Croatian citizenship in certain members of the Croatian people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in some counties because it was not mandatory, therefore a national declaration. So this is the repair that we, as a committee then proposed and which I will propose to this Parliament by the end of this debate is also in accordance with the law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. According to the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, I quote Article I: "This law regulates the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship is being introduced." And Article 2 within the meaning of this law, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are members of the modern and constitutive Croatian people in BiH, members of the Croatian minority in the European countries, Croatian emigrants in the overseas European countries and their descendants." So it's a closed quote. This formulation from the amendment was already part of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, so it is an example... The law on the employment of foreigners, which was valid until the adoption of the Foreign Law, reads in Article 1(3): “Croats with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law. ” [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This provision is therefore also in line with the laws and practices of EU countries that regulate the status of peoples but without citizenship. Namely in German legislation already in the basic law... The laws distinguish between an ethical German and give him and his wife rights that do not give foreigners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The situation is similar, therefore, with the Republic of Slovenia, which also distinguishes ethnic Slovenes from foreigners in the chapter of the Slovenians Act beyond its borders, under the heading "The status of Slovenians without the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia determines the rights of that category of Slovenians". So Article 58 says: “The Republic of Slovenia is the home country of all Slovenians, which is why it also recognises special status for Slovenians without citizenship in its area, which provides special rights and benefits for the appointed. ” The article 60 also states: “Slovenian nationality and Slovenian origin are proved by a copy of the queen born and other authentic documents. ” In Article 66, Slovenians are also entitled to rights without citizenship and, among other things, to obtain property over real estate under the same conditions that apply to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and to the advantage of running for vacancy if they meet the conditions for doing business, so priority is given to other foreigners who are not EU citizens. Also Jewish law... Give relief to the Jews both before returning and one year after moving in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, colleagues and fellow MPs, so recently I was in Jerusalem for a conference dedicated to world diaspora. And I think that we Croats and the Croatian state should learn some things from the Jewish people and the state of Israel. It is known therefore that the state of Israel has created a Jewish diaspora. In fact, the Croatian diaspora has contributed decisively to the creation and establishment of the Croatian state. However, since the founding of the Jewish state, Israel in '48. To this day, the number of Jews in Israel has increased 10 times, and in Croatia every year we are demographically failing and we are left out of one city. So in the debate with the competent proposings, there has always been a problem on their part how to define therefore Croats who do not have citizenship as Croats. Simply, the Jews were that or Israel defined it, so the descendant of 4 generations of the Jewish mother is a member of the Jewish people. Only since the fall of the Berlin Wall have millions of Jews immigrated, or been transported from the former SS states. '91. 185,000, '90, '91. 150000, believe it or not, in Operation Solomon, so at 36 o'clock, an air bridge of 14400 Jews, Ethiopian Jews, was transported to the state of Israel. So, did anyone set up these bureaucratic obstacles to who was Jewish and who wasn't? So there are things that we need to think deeply about if we want a genuine demographic reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, if we want both economic and any other progress of the Republic of Croatia. So unlike the Jewish state, we have not been able for 25 years, either at a symbolic level or at a fundamental level to approach the essential solution to this problem. So, the Committee on Croatians, myself personally at the head of that committee, we had several meetings with the representatives of the proposings, representatives of the MUP, where they were members of the professional services of the Central State Office of the Republic of Croatia and the main argument was that this matter did not belong to the Foreign Law, but that this matter should be solved by the Law on Citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, according to the estimates of the relevant institutions, around 3,800 000 Croats live outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Only a small number of us have Croatian citizenship. Why? For some, it is a legal obstacle, some born in countries such as Switzerland, Germany, etc., the laws of that country, rather dual citizenship, in order to be able to exercise the rights arising from citizenship in countries which are often born and which work. Therefore, the argument that this issue should be resolved through the Law on Citizenship does not stand. So, that through the Law on Citizenship, we should liberalise the process of acquiring Croatian citizenship, simplify it, but I am also telling me in this law we need to think about it. And in the end, I want to say this. If these amendments were adopted, we would have made life much easier for many of our countrymen, especially in South American countries where there are often no consulates, where we could hand over this request for citizenship, we would have made it easier for Croats from some of our counties, from BiH, to facilitate the arrival of members of the Croatian people without citizenship and employment, and in the context of this debate that we just had the opportunity to listen to, about seasons, we would also in some way facilitate the stay of our countrymen and their residence, entry, the achievement of labour rights. And therefore, I say, we will submit an amendment, i.e. I will invest it this time and I expect it by the end of the debate and by the start of the vote that either the Proposer proposes a formulation as we concluded at the last session of the committee that will cover the essence of this amendment or then here and as a Parliament, we will declare the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40759	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ljubic, your debate prompted me and raised one question. Is that what you're telling me? As a proposer of every draft law, do we strengthen our relationship to the Croatian diaspora or do we unfortunately weaken it? Because when we look through history, why so many Croats went away, there was once economic migration, but there was a terrible lot of those who simply had to leave their areas because they would have lost their heads. So, I am pleased that the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia continues the continuity of what the Committee proposed three years ago and this is to be resolved in a different way than through the Income Tax Act should solve the problem of taxing pensions, Croats above all in the overseas countries, and also through the Health Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Agreement signed those agreements with America, South America, Australia and New Zealand, and then it would make it very easier to return to our people who, after their retirement, would want to come back and live here, but these may all be somewhat small but they are insurmountable problems to come to live here. It is high time we started treating the Croats no matter where they were, as the Israelis treated their parents, as the Italians, the Irish treated theirs, and in the end Ireland was by far our role model, and the main initiator or generator of economic recovery and the boom of Ireland twenty years ago was the Irish diaspora. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40761	Thank you. The honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40762	Thank you. My colleague Shuker, and your debate in which you had in the previous session of the Parliament, was, in a way, a beauty for me and myself to mention this issue in December 2016 when this law first came before the Parliament and in an emergency procedure. In fact, I believe that in this Law on Foreigners where I repeat myself and agree with those who at this point have a reserve in some way, the inclusion of such an amendment in this law that the issue of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is not resolved in the Foreign Law. However, by including this wording on the Foreign Law in the first place, we give a message to our compatriots that we have over 3800000 outside the Republic of Croatia, that this country does not consider them foreigners. So we're encouraging them to be interested in this country that you're interested in coming, entering, studying, hiring. On the other hand, we put pressure on you if you want institutions of the Republic of Croatia who have not done what they should have done for 25 years, including all those ministries and institutions that you and your colleague Schuker mentioned at this point. Both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance in obtaining the OIB, etc. etc. Therefore, and in the end of the line to those people where the legal obstacles of the state whose citizenship they have and in which they are often born in this way and who will never ask, so admission to Croatian citizenship. On the other hand, we have people who, for financial reasons, will not even enter this procedure for administrative reasons, and live Croatianism in the countries where they were born, in which they moved and live in some way their Croatia. And they can be useful to us both without moving in and without gaining citizenship, and also this country to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40763	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take a break by three o'clock. We've had another replica, but unfortunately, my fellow Culei doesn't have a right to debate. I'm sorry, I didn't see the replica and the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin raise. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40764	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, Honorable Representative Ljubic. There is a clear lack of seasonal workers in Croatia, but during the debate, there was a mention of the protection of the labour market, and our hosts have a big problem – they have no labour force. And I think that's where we should do the same thing, loosen the system, liberalize the entry of seasonal labour. But Croatia lacks its population. The demographic picture of Croatia is negative. It is clear that the growth of the population is as it is, but not only is it less naturally born, but it is more dying, but it is also a major eviction from Croatia. What's that all about? But we can call it economic reasons and others, but the world has been going from east to west all the time, and that's a global phenomenon. I'm interested in your answer, or your opinion is to move foreigners into Croatia. I don't mean Croats here. This should be maximum liberalised wherever they came from third countries or those that have moved out of the overseas countries. I wonder if it might be necessary to liberalise the immigration of those citizens from other countries that are similar to the civilization circle as we are. Let's say Catholics from Kosovo. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40765	The answer of the distinguished representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40766	A respected colleague, therefore, is as clear as the argument itself says, so encouraged by harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU law. On the other hand, this law deals with the issues of foreigners, including these foreigners, therefore, who, by necessity, come to the territory of the Republic of Croatia and Europe from countries affected by wars. And that was a lot of talk. I wouldn't say anything about that. What I consider to be a demographic renewal, we should focus primarily on members of the Croatian people. In this regard, it is this intervention, both my and the Croatian Committee, that members of the Croatian people who, as I said about 3 million and 800,000 live outside the Republic of Croatia, are encouraged to make it easier for them to join Croatian citizenship, but also through other laws for those who, for any reason, cannot access Croatian citizenship to make their distinction from other foreigners. And that's the basic intensity of this law. So, as far as demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, this matter is not really an opportunity for us to talk about it. But in any case, if it is necessary for Croatia to seek other sources outside the Croatian people, then, of course, it is always easier to integrate those who are culturally closer to saying so to the dominant Croatian population, but of course it should not exclude others who are willing to accept, therefore also laws, the culture of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40767	Thank you very much. We'll stop now and see you at three o'clock at the vote. So a proposal to show the trust of the masters of science, Marija Pejcinović Buric, to carry out the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Session adjourned at 13.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40768	We are now continuing the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law. We have before us an individual debate of a distinguished colleague, Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40769	I would like to thank the president, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm just gonna make a quick connection after the club debate. There was a talk about seasonal workers. And now I'm interested in one thing. In Article 75a, he says that there's no point in waiting for me to...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40770	You'd better wait a minute. So please colleagues and colleagues, Vice President Radin, Vice President, I'd like to beg you, colleague Curaj speaks, so I'd like to beg you for peace. Who's interested in staying in the assembly stays and everyone else I wish you a happy trip. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40771	Yeah, well, just for a little while, it's a shame I didn't make it to the morning this ended when it was still attached. Therefore, Article 75 states that the permit to stay and work for seasonal work can be granted to a seasonal worker if, under point 3, there is health insurance. In fact, here I would just pull one parallel about the second provision I think the Health Insurance Act that applies to foreigners, where when registering them, that institution charges health insurance back a year. In particular, I think it's 4,000 kuna. Here's the word that he'll be granted a permit if he has health insurance, I suppose he's referring to that or to some employment rights. So I'd like to ask perhaps an clarification from the motionary exactly what it means. Is that exactly the back payment a year that I don't think may be constitutional or not? Furthermore, in the same article, they say if the employer during a period of 12 months who directly precedes the date of submission of the application for residence and work permits, for seasonal work, abolished the job at full-time to free the job he wants to fill with seasonal workers. Now, we know that in the Labour Act if there is a change in the systematization and abolition of certain jobs in companies, that 6 months cannot be employed by a person in the same or similar workplace with the same job description. We've been talking about 12 months. Namely, why do I mention this, my colleague Mrsiš had a morning debate on the liberalisation of the labour market for seasonal workers above all foreigners. And about the fact that we're practically forcing our workers to go outside because there's another labour force coming in that's going to work cheaper. Of course, when we read all these conditions and know our bureaucracy, it's almost hard for me to imagine all these procedures that our employers have to go through to do the same, and in particular I'd like to interpret this 9th paragraph of the 2nd point about these previous 12 months, is that the same job, the job within the company or what? Especially if we know it's seasonal workers and then when the season is over and the job is lifted, practically by the end of next season, we shouldn't hire anyone outside. So if we're looking at these provisions here, then we have to say that it's not too much to open up some foreign labour market. He would also also also refer to what is said to be a more semi-polemised, i.e. the problematic article 43 related to aid, that is to say, an attempt to help a new one, which says that it is not considered to help within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this article, which starts for humanitarian reasons, then it is further written in brackets, and that is added to those remarks “saving lives, preventing injury, providing emergency medical assistance and providing humanitarian assistance according to a special regulation.” Now, I would like to say exactly, what is this special regulation? Because if we look at the Law on humanitarian aid, in Article 2, it says: “The collection and provision of humanitarian aid is done to ensure the protection of life, the protection of physical and mental health, food and clothing, housing, conditions of education, assistance in the restoration and construction of residential public and other facilities, so to the transport of aid,” etc., etc. The consequences of aid for... A big accident and everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that's what this is about, then I don't think there's too much noise and trouble about it and hardly anyone will be able to misbehave. But I note again, it is not the goal and should not be the goal, that every part, because I personally participated and helped refugees who were, and collected and brought to them food and other supplies, so that it should not be the meaning and purpose of this law, that such people are being punished, and that I am aware on the other hand, that such legal provisions may be found, those specific holes in the law, so that people who are dealing with the very trade of people, or perhaps not in trade, but also in the business of just transferring these foreigners to Europe and other labour markets, could be used. So we really need to distinguish it well, and we feel that there is a need to introduce order and that there is nothing to underline under this aid, but first of all, we must not lose that humanitarian aspect of this work. Here's your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40772	Thank you. We've got a replica. Dear colleague Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40773	Your Honor. Dear fellow, since I am from an area bordering Serbia, and where refugees from the war of disillusioned countries come from, and I am also a witness among other events, the fact is that those border posts have actively participated in the welcome and reception of disillusioned refugees and have helped them with their heart. And the same is the fact that under this cover anyone from any part of Croatia can come from some other initiatives and organise the transport of the same destination to them, and the fact is also I don't know how much you follow on social networks of events in Europe, especially in Germany where there are various unfortunates who have come to encourage war and are now spending some other terrors up there. And the fact is that many refugees are very well equipped and targeted. We're putting it all in one so I don't say, basket, because everyone's coming from some need upstairs. And there's everything and everything. Which is why we're witnesses and we're gonna be witnesses. We're not saying that everyone's threatened because there are also various criminal groups among them who are "willcommen", welcome, and time will show. Many times Croatians have suffered from their good souls from those who have feasted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40774	Thank you. Is that an answer? There's no response to the replica. Then we will move to the final presentation of the motionary, Secretary of State Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40775	Your Honor, Mr. President, I thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would, as soon as possible, have responded to some comments as soon as possible and to the extent that I can currently refer to some of the amendments tabled. In turn, as they said, I will first say a few words about Mr. Glasnovic's allegations. He did not talk so much about the Foreign Law itself, or amendments to the Foreign Law, but about the problems of acquiring Croatian citizenship, members of the Croatian people from other countries at all. I can only say that out of the total million and 86197 admitted to Croatian citizenship from 1991 until the end of last year 678294, some less than 680000 were received by the basis of Article 16, which is the basis of belonging to the Croatian people. And one smaller number of 2015 on the basis of Article 11. The law on Croatian citizenship that prescribes the acquisition of Croatian citizenship, emigrants and their descendants. So that's a relatively large number. In doing so, it is not all who have acquired Croatian citizenship that some of them have come from origin. So, people who were underage, who are underage children of Croatian citizens living abroad. They're being received by something different, that number we can't estimate right now, but it's also not small. Of course, all these years, there have been problems especially for the first ones of war and the first years of war because of the large number of demands simply the capacity to solve that number within a reasonable period, and later when the number fell significantly, so if we could say that the capacities were better then there were often more complicated demands that took a little more time. In any case, the Ministry of the Interior and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has a firm view of the need to defend and promote the rights of Croats and Croatian peoples outside the Republic of Croatia. This was also passed by a special law just over five years ago, the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the relevant provisions exist in a number of other laws. On the remarks of respected representatives Hajdukovic and Jovanovic, I think they were about the same as they say this law should not lead to the criminalisation of solidarity. We stand firm in the view that it will not happen, it must not happen. Helping, and we saw it in a refugee crisis that hit the Republic of Croatia two years ago that Croatian citizens proved worthy and that they provided help, I would say at every step. In this regard, we will seek, therefore, to give, on behalf of the promoter, an amendment that would change the current formulation in some way, and it will, therefore, go, in that sense, that helping in illegal entry remains restrictive when a person enters, when at the border, and that helping when a person is already in the Republic of Croatia to make it much easier. And in that sense, I hope we find a formulation, we have some kind of formulation that we believe will be accepted by those who are from civil society associations and state bodies, and by the representatives who have objected to these formulations. Mr Bozo Ljubic, on behalf of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, and I think he spoke on his own behalf about the need for Croats with foreign citizenship or without citizenship not to consider foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law. In this sense, we will propose a special amendment, and yet in the light of the provisions of the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, in particular from Article 37 of that law, which is in fact a new institute, an institute of Croatian status without Croatian citizenship, which can be obtained by Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who do not have Croatian citizenship, spouses who do not have Croatian origin, their children born and adopted, and friends of the Croatian people and the Republic of Croatia who foster Croatian identity and promote Croatian cultural unity. The same article in paragraph 2 says that recognising the status of Croats without citizenship does not prejudge belonging to the Croatian people in the process of gaining Croatian citizenship. Therefore, such a formulation, which would be proposed, would say that persons, in Article 2(2), of Article 2(2), which reads as follows: "persons with established status of Croats without Croatian citizenship are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law, and exercise the rights in accordance with a special regulation." As regards the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities as well as the amendment submitted by the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi as regards members of the Croatian citizen's family. We would accept this amendment in part, especially in the sense that Article 54(2) also explicitly acknowledges that they do not have to prove it, i.e. they do not have to have a valid travel document, but only when a foreign travel document cannot be obtained by an embassy or a consular office of a foreign country, whose person is in the Republic of Croatia or if, therefore, that person is otherwise able to establish his identity. For example, with an old expired, more invalid, but with a travel document that he used in previous procedures, from which it is unquestionably a person. The esteemed representative Orepic has been seeking to fully regulate the matter that this law now regulates, so that it is divided into 3 wholes, a whole that will regulate the work of foreigners, stay, entry, stay and movement of foreigners, and a third whole that would regulate the status of citizens of European economic space. This was spoken of and thought, however, because of the speed and urgency of the necessary hyna implementation of these three directives that I was talking about, it was not possible now, but we will see in this direction we are thinking, we can go, that duck, some of the many countries have so resolved, and in particular here the Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary and some other countries particularly regulate the status of citizens of European economic space, because simply, our law foresees it differently, but at present it is all in one fairly large, and therefore a little less legible and understandable law. Regarding the alleged respected representative Miranda Mrsic and the work of seasonal workers, I can only say that the absolute work of seasonal workers as it has been studied in this law cannot affect the less employment of Croatian citizens on their emigration, because it is precisely the number of activities or seasonal work activities, I will repeat on hospitality, tourism, agriculture and forestry, Mrs Jelkovac replied to Mrsic at the time, so I will not repeat, she quoted both the provisions and the directives and this law, so we absolutely reject any possibility that this would affect the emigration or reduction of the employment of Croatian citizens. Yes, the provisions concerning certain provisions have been changed, the labour permit quota will now and so far, and until now, seasonal employment in the labour permit quota has been determined by the Ministry of Labour, on the basis of the HZZ proposal and with the opinion of the HGK, Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Social Partners. The labour market is in every country a sensitive mechanism that rests on a single balance that is sensitive between those who offer work, employers, those who seek it, receive it, builders, workers, and the government that appears there as a partner, I believe not as an arbitrationian, but as a useful partner who will be able to reconcile sometimes, but not always conflicting interests. We could, of course, choose some other mechanisms, as was said here to favour persons who, for example, have completed education in Croatia, or, as the SDP Club amendment said in one of the amendments, that the employer first seeks written employment of Croatian citizens, and if within a certain period, he does not get that he can then hire. This can be a good example in principle, but I believe that in our country that in our relations this would have a worse impact on our workers than this attitude we advocate, that the labour permit quota for each year prescribes how many foreigners will be employed than that and how much will be employed in seasonal employment. If they weren't such large numbers, they are bigger this year, but there is a greater lack of labour force, I'll just remind you that in this year, the labour permit quota is 7 thousand and 26 work permits, of which 5 thousand 211 for new employment, 1800 for the extension of the work permits already issued last year, and only 15 for seasonal employment, so this year 15 work permits for seasonal employment have been transferred, and that's for wine and fruit vaccineer. As far as I am concerned, I will take a brief look at some remarks and debate from Mr Curaj, ask where the financial resources for the detention areas and at airports, or at the border crossings, whether at the airport border, seaport, etc., more than 10 such spaces and funds from the EU were built, the special regulation will be laid down, rules for determining what area these are, which are the conditions in which the person can be held. It can be held for a maximum of 8 days, and unless it is approved in those 8 days, the person must leave the space, provide him with other accommodation outside the border crossing, either at the police station, as in Vukovar we have such space or at the new Airport in Zagreb and will receive another space in which he can then wait for transfer to another country, return, etc. In the end, I thought it was the same in Mr Kirin's debate about whether it was possible to liberalise the entry of citizens of individual countries into the Republic of Croatia, for example in terms of work, he called for some similarity to civilization, etc., that's what some countries were doing. For example, in the early part of this century, the Czech Republic had such provisions that applied to three countries, one of these countries was Croatia, and it was written a lot about it. The second was Bulgaria, and I think the third was Armenia, I'm not sure some country from the former Soviet Union was mostly. It is possible to prescribe this, each country decides autonomously, but I think that you should primarily take care of the workforce, the type, the degree of education, and that if it is a matter of work, you are interested in a worker who can do a quality job for the Croatian employer and help us all raise our standard. Here's how much I've been able to track, I hope I've been able to answer that. On some amendments, some remarks will be made by the proposer in the form of amendments such as the rights of members of the family of Croatian citizens who are on temporary stay such as the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship and assistance, there have been a lot of talk in the debate, and also in public these days. Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40776	Thank you, too. One replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40777	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. One small... Mr Katić when you spoke of issued citizenship in the Republic of Croatia, since the creation of a modern Croatian state, it seems to me that you have said a million and 86 thousand supported citizenships. That's why you said it's an article of the 16th. 86 thousand, according to Article 11. The law of... 686 thousand, and pursuant to Article 11. 20 grand and some issued citizenship. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In fact, the Republic of Croatia should take permanent care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and you mentioned the Law on Croatian Relations to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps the only thing that is not good in this law and should be looked after, which is that a member of the Croatian people should not in any way be a stranger in their national state, I think it is necessary to be very, very careful. And if that were to be reshape differently, I think it would be good and useful for changing and supplementing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40778	Would you like to respond to the replica? Okay, thank you very much. This concludes the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Moving to the next law is the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Foreigners Act, Second Reading, P.Z.E. Number 59. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of these amendments must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Please, let's vote. I find that with 81 votes for, 1 abstentioned parliament has decided to hold a debate on the amendments of the government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would like to ask my distinguished colleague, Žarko Katic, the secretary of state at the MUP to further explain the amendments. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40780	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that in its first amendment, Article 2 of the amended Article 2(2) adds that paragraph 2 reads: "persons who have established the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship shall not be regarded as foreigners within the meaning of this Act and shall exercise their status and rights in accordance with the special regulation on relations of the Republic of Croatia with non-Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia". The amendment is proposed for reasons of meeting constitutional obligations to protect members of the Croatian people as well as for harmonising with the provisions of a special law, so the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Since the amendment to Article 2 was proposed by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and by Professor Dr. Bozo Ljubic, by considering the content of their amendments, considered that they could not be accepted in the form in which they were submitted but in this form where the Government has reworked these amendments, we believe that this amendment, so it was possible to complete them and therefore the Government proposes that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40781	I'm opening a debate. I am concluding the debate and voting on the first amendment of the government. Please vote. I find that, with 76 votes for and 1 abstention, Amendment No. 1 Government and it becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Now goes Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40782	Amendment No. 2 Government of the Republic of Croatia: Article 12 amending Article 43 The law on foreigners paragraph 2 is amended as follows: It shall not be considered as aid within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article. First indent, assistance provided for in Articles 116 and 117 of this Act. The second indent, assisting in the illegal crossing of the state border in order to save lives, prevent injury, provide emergency medical assistance and provide humanitarian assistance in accordance with specific regulations. Third indent, assisting in illegal stay for humanitarian reasons and without the intention of preventing or delaying taking measures to ensure return. That provision is otherwise transposed into the national legislation of Article 1(2). The aid Directive, Council Directive 2002/90EC of 28 November 2002 laying down the assistance of the unauthorised entry of transit and residence: any Member State may decide not to impose sanctions for the conduct referred to in point A by applying its national law and practice to cases where such behaviour is aimed at providing humanitarian assistance to the persons to whom this applies. The provision provided for by the final draft of the law was stricter and, according to our assessment, after hearing the debates and amendments referred to by the Government as a proposal, concluded that such a formulation could then be made, which would then cover everything that was said not to be sanctioned by persons providing assistance to migrants in an illegal stay. This is as soon as possible not to sanction, for example, free legal aid, when crossing, entering the Republic of Croatia, crossing the state border is considered not to sanction those cases where the lives of migrants are at risk but therefore all others do. And while staying in the territory of the Republic of Croatia when a migrant is already within our state territory, something wider applies, so if helping would lead to preventing a return, to disable a police officer in his work and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40783	Thank you, and I'd just like to ask you to be a little shorter on the basis of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40784	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40785	I'm opening a debate. Is there anyone who's answering for a hearing? If not, I'm closing the argument. And I am voting on the Second Amendment of the Government. I find that with 92 votes in favour and 1 against and this amendment has passed, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Now it's the turn of Amendment No. 3. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40786	In Article 19 of the added Article 56a, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The party referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall not be required to meet the conditions laid down in Article 54(2) where the valid travel document cannot be obtained in the diplomatic consular office of the foreign State in the Republic of Croatia and its identity can be clearly established otherwise.’. The amendment was accepted on the basis of the amendments submitted by MP Veljko Kajtazi but the amendment could not be accepted in the proposed integrated form, so it was necessary to complete it and the Government is giving such an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40787	A colleague of yours will come to the amendment, and this is therefore the adapted amendment that your amendment has been incorporated into the law by the Government. So I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Thank you. I am voting on this 3rd amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I find that with 94 votes for and 1 against and this amendment has been accepted and becomes part of the final draft of the law. We now move on to the Fourth Amendment of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40788	Thank you very much. Article 38 of the amended Article 96(2) adds: ‘The third country nationals referred to in Article 94(1) of this Act shall not, in the procedure of granting permanent stay, have a valid foreign travel document when it cannot be obtained in the diplomatic consular office of a foreign State in the Republic of Croatia, have the potential to establish its identity in another way.’. It is therefore an identical amendment only as it relates in this case to the procedure for granting permanent stay while previously referring to the procedure for granting temporary stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40789	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the Fourth Amendment of the Government. Please vote. With 90 votes in favour and 1 vote against, we also accepted the Fourth Amendment of the Government and it became an integral part of the final draft law. We are now moving to the amendments submitted by MP Bozo Ljubic, SDP representative club, MP Veljko Katazi, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Law. The review of the amendment is divided into benches, please the representative of Mr. Zarko Katić, State Secretary to be shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40790	Thank you very much. is not accepted because this amendment, the first amendment of the government, in fact, in the most part, we adopted it, the content. [[Adversity President: First Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40791	Thank you. Will anyone on behalf of the applicant of that amendment? If not, is there any need for a vote since it is installed, one of you from the MPs' club, or from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40792	The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities is not asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40793	Thank you, thank you very much. We are crossing Amendment number two, Professor God Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40794	The amendment is not accepted because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed an amendment to Article 2 proposing a new paragraph 2, which we have previously adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40795	Here's my colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40796	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, since the formulation of the amendment of the Government that we just adopted is therefore absorbing the substance content of my amendment, so I am giving up that amendment, I am not asking it to vote. However, I want this to be just the beginning, therefore, of valorisation and full integration of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia into the socio-economic life of Croatia, and I expect that within the shortest time period of the Government's institution, the amendment of the Law on Citizenship, the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, the Law on the ID, the Law on the OIB, the Law on Security Checks and, ultimately, to access amendments to the Constitution, electoral legislation that will allow Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to exercise their electoral rights as well as other citizens of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40797	Thank you, thank you very much. Okay, so we won't vote, the amendment has been withdrawn. Third amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40798	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the conditions for granting entry to a non-compliant stranger are laid down in the Schengen Borders Code in Article 5(6)c, which just says that third-country nationals may but do not have to be granted entry for humanitarian and similar reasons. In national legislation, the Republic of Croatia must not prescribe a different provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40799	Thank you. A colleague of Kajtazi's or... He's a fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40800	Mr. President, on behalf of the board, we're asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40801	You got it. So let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We move on to Amendment number four, the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40802	The amendment is not accepted. As regards the first part of the amendment, therefore in paragraph 1, the Aid Directive provides for both the sanctioning and the attempt to assist and, as regards Article 2, we believe that the Government, with this amendment, has in a certain way accepted the content of this amendment, the second, Article 43, which is amended in Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40803	I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40804	We agree with the applicant's explanation and we withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40805	Thank you very much, fifth amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40806	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40807	Thank you. Will anyone, on behalf of the board, be manifested, fellow Pupovac? If not, I have to put him to the vote. So let's vote, this amendment is not accepted by the Government. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, we move on to the sixth amendment, Agent Veljak Kheitazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40808	Amendment number six, MP Veljak Kajtazi, the Government does not accept, as the Government has proposed an amendment to Article 19, a final proposal for a law that specifically regulates a temporary stay for the purpose of bringing the family together without obtaining a travel document, which is important that the identity of the person can be clearly established in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40809	Here you go, buddy Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40810	Thank you. I am pleased to say that my amendment has been partially accepted by the applicant. I am also pleased that we have had the opportunity to discuss the amendment and that we have found a compromise in the formulation that will facilitate the procedure on persons subject to the provisions of this law, especially those who have not had the opportunity to obtain valid sides, travel documents in the Republic of Croatia, in order to regulate their status, and I hope that cooperation with representatives or state secretary, Mr. Zarko Katic and his associates in the MUP will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40811	I would like to thank my colleagues, Katazia. So we're giving up the vote, that's right. Seven, SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40812	Therefore, the amendment to Article 23 is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on foreigners provides that the government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt an annual quota, whose proposal is drawn up by the Ministry of Labour, on the basis of the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the representatives of the social partners. Therefore, the definition of the quota also takes into account the situation in the labour market, the number and structure of unemployed persons and the needs of employers, and all relevant, all relevant bodies of the institution participate in the draft. As regards the annual quota for the seasonal war, for example, it has been established in this year, but for only 15 work permits in the activities of agriculture and forestry. So the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40813	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40814	Mr. President, we're looking for a vote, and that's what we're looking for for for amendments 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 so I don't report every time that happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40815	Okay. So we can do it right now, you agree that we vote right now. Yeah? Then we vote unitedly on all amendments from 7th to 13th, if I understand correctly. Please join the vote. I find that the amendments didn't get enough votes and we don't accept them, they don't become part of the law. So we go to 14. It is an amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40817	The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall accept this amendment in part in the following text, i.e. the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament from 13 June 2017 on Article 38. The final proposal for a law amending Article 96 is amended as follows: The law on foreigners in the part in which paragraph 4 is deleted in Article 96(1). So delete point 4. And this other part, in fact, is, the second part of the amendment, the government has practically, in substance, adopted by the adoption of Amendment 4 which was adopted just before. So here it is necessary to adopt the amendment in part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40818	Do you agree with your colleague, Pupovac, as chairman of the Human Rights Committee? Thank you. [[Pupovac Invader: We agree.]] Then that part becomes an integral part of the law. Moving to Amendment 15. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40819	Amendment number 15. A SDP representative club is not accepted. Namely, the Return Directive speaks of an eviction for reasons of public order, national security, public health, and the provisions of the Proposed Law on Exclusion for reasons of social danger relate primarily to the Directive on Freedom of Movement. In accordance with the position of the European Court of Human Rights, the Directive on Freedom of Movement lays down general legal standards for exclusion applicable irrespective of whether or not it is a person with freedom of movement. It is therefore not possible, under the applicable Act on Foreigners, to expel without the power of decision of the competent authority which determines the existence of a breach of the rules which clearly arises in Article 107(2), in which only two cases are prescribed where a solution can be taken without a decision by the State authority. It's an illegal stay and an illegal crossing of the state border. So the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40820	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40821	Just like last time for Amendments 15 and 17 and 18, we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40822	Okay. Here we vote, so on amendments 15, 17 and 18 that the government does not accept. I find that these amendments have not received the necessary majority, so we move on to Amendment No 16. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40823	The amendment is not accepted with the following explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Return Directives are prescribed that Member States should not extend the period referred to in paragraph 5 except for a certain period of time not longer than 12 months in accordance with national legislation in cases where, regardless of all reasonable efforts made, there is a strong chance that the forced distance procedure will last longer because of insufficient cooperation by the third country national concerned or because of the delay in the delivery of the necessary files by a third country. Since Article 15(6) b. of the Return Directive provides that accommodation in the centre of a foreigner may be extended if its country delays the delivery of travel documents, the Republic of Croatia should not prescribe a different provision in national legislation. So the amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40824	Thank you. The obvious of a respected colleague named Pupovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40825	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Katic, the board respects most of the arguments except for one exception, which is when the applicant is not alone responsible for the delay in the documents. Therefore, if the police or the authorities determine that he himself is responsible, they will not respect his objection. But if he finds that I am not responsible for delaying the whole process of obtaining documents, it would be quite right if you accepted these amendments. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40826	Let's join in asking you to vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received enough votes, so we move on to the last amendment. It is the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40827	The amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 123 that it is deleted shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40828	It becomes an integral part of the law. We're going to vote. So, I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law. Please vote, and thank the Secretary of State. .../Intruder Katic: Thank you. I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 16 against, have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law, with amendments adopted. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We continue our work, we will vote on a proposal to show confidence in Marija Pejcinović Buric for the duties of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. The applicant is Andrej Plenkovic, President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 110. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the debate was held at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Affairs. You have received reports from the board on benches or you will receive them in a few minutes. I'd like to ask the committee's rapporteur if they want to take the floor, Miro Kovac, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Also, fellow Milosevic, president of the European Affairs Committee, is not necessary. So, the information I received is such that the committees passed the proposal to show confidence to a respected colleague, Marija Pejcinović Buric. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure on this proposal shall not be held at the plenary session. I stress that Article 252. The Rules of Procedure determines that to show confidence to government members, a half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes, are required. I am voting on the proposal to show confidence to Marija Pejcinović Buric for the duties of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Please vote. I find that with 78 votes in favour of, 35 votes against, 0 abstentions, Maria Pejcinović Buric's trust in the responsibilities of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs... Ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence, the conditions for giving the oath to the new Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs have been met. [[Applause.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 5 The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the oath is given in a way that the President pronounces the text of the oath and thereafter calls individual members of the Government, and the members of the Government give an oath, by standing up and saying "I swear." The text of the oath reads: “I swear that I will be conscious and honorable in my duties as a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Marija Pejcinović Buric, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs."
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40830	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40831	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, I congratulate you on your confidence. I want you to successfully carry out the honorary and responsible duties of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Thank you very much. I'd ask my colleagues to behave politely, that's essential what every parliamentary representative should do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40832	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. Clubs of the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament propose to elect a doctor of science, Furi Radin, as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Dr Furyo Radin was born in Pula on June 1st 1950. Graduated and PhD in psychology at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb. Since 1992, he has been a representative of the Italian minority in the Croatian Parliament, which means that Dr Furio Radin currently holds his 8th term in the Croatian Parliament, which I congratulate him on. He was president of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament during the 6th term and is a member of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament in 3 terms. He is currently a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and is a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly... Since 2006, he has been president of Italian minorities, worked and lectured at universities in Rijeka, Zagreb and Milan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, after a long time as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, are elected representatives of national minorities. By proposing Dr Furi Radina, we want to contribute to the stabilisation of political opportunities and relations in Croatian society, mainly through the evaluation of the role of national minorities in politics, in society, and certainly in every policy and so on in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, on behalf of the ruling majority representative in the Croatian Parliament, I invite all colleagues and colleagues to support Dr Furia Radin as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40833	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? If not, I'm closing the argument. And before we speak of the proposal, I would like to remind you that the election of the vice-president of the Croatian Parliament requires most of the votes of the present representatives. I am now voting on the proposal to elect representative Furio Radin as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that with 109 votes for and 1 vote against MP Furio Radin, he has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations to the new vice president of the Croatian Parliament. ... [[Applause.]] Now we move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Explosive Substances Act, and production and transport of weapons, second reading, P.Z. Number 54. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution, Article 171. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear counterpart Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the MUP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40835	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The final proposal of the Explosive Substances Act, as well as the production and transport of weapons, is therefore governed by the area of production, transport, use and transport of explosive substances, as well as the production, transport and transport of weapons. These areas have so far been regulated by three laws, the Law on Explosive Substances, the area of transport and use of explosive substances, the Law on Weapons has been regulated by the production, transport and transport of weapons, and the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances has regulated the area of transport of explosive substances. In order to amend and supplement the Directive on the placing on the market of explosive substances for economic use, Croatian legislation governing the area of production, transport and use of explosive substances should be amended or processed in order to comply with that Directive. The deadline for the transposition of the directive into Croatian legislation expired a year ago, but here it was because of the political opportunities in the Republic of Croatia, the law did not, it was addressed, but was not adopted within the planned deadline. Similarly, we have concluded that, in addition to the need to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation, it is necessary to develop or improve regulations and to facilitate economic activities related to this area. The analysis of the rules as well as the communication with responsible persons of companies dealing with economic activities governed by these regulations has led to the conclusion that the regulation of these areas would, instead of the three companies so far, significantly facilitate the business of companies, but also ensure much better control of explosive substances and weapons, and unification in one law is justified both because of the relatedness and intertwination of the area of production and transport of weapons and explosive substances. The following four basic reasons for the adoption of this law may be provided. It is the first, as we have said in the introduction, to align the rules of the Republic of Croatia with the new EU directive on the placing of explosive substances on the market. The second would be to edit areas that are not fully regulated as such. Manufacture of weapons of category A, i.e. A weapon of military use. The disorder of this area creates major problems for legal persons involved in this activity and it is a very important and export branch of our economy. In addition to the production and transport of weapons of category A, this law completes and regulates a significant number of other parts of the now applicable regulations such as the placing on the market of arms, marking and marking of weapons, civilian shooting sites and the use of weapons on civilian shooting sites, the collection of old weapons, the acquisition and registration of weapons of commercial companies, the transport of explosive substances and weapons, the purchase and use of pyrotechnic means, as well as other parts of the area of production and the transport of explosive substances and weapons. Third, the unification into one law of the now applicable Law on explosive substances, part of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances, and parts of the Law on Weapons relating to the activities of companies both in the manufacture, transport and transport of arms and ammunition. And fourthly, ensuring fuller control of weapons and explosive substances, and achieving better regulation of the area of production and transport of explosive substances and weapons. So our goal is to ensure better supervision to prevent incidents that can lead to major consequences for the lives and health of citizens. The implementation of this law in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia does not require additional funding and the adoption of this law is proposed as soon as possible as possible as it is a regulation transposing the Croatian legal order by binding EU rules. I would also like to point out that, before the procedure in the Croatian Parliament, we have referred the bill through a system through which the technical regulations are notified to the European Commission, so the European Commission has been familiar with, is familiar with the proposal of this law, asking for possible comments and suggestions which were therefore not available. In May 2016, in a package with the Law on the acquisition and registration of arms and citizens, the law was agreed on by expert groups and co-ordinations of the Government but its adoption because of a known situation was not already possible but was decided to head to the Croatian Parliament in two readings. So the first reading was made without major remarks and the second reading was not possible because of the disbanding of the Parliament and it was addressed here when conditions were met for the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament. Here, respected MPs and advocates, it is brief on the final proposal for a law on explosive substances and on the production and transport of weapons. If there are any more questions, we are prepared to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40836	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We have two boards, but we don't have a chairman of those committees, so nothing. And then we move on to the debate. So far, two clubs have signed up. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Honorable counterpart Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40837	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to do in a few sentences to say why we at the MOST Club think that the adoption of this law is extremely important and that these are the changes that took place in relation to the first reading. So when we talk about explosive substances, and the production and transport of weapons, it should be emphasized that the depravity of this area creates major problems for legal persons involved in the activities of the production of weapons. And this is a very important export branch of our economy. In addition to the economic importance here, it should certainly be noted that because of the lack of arrangements, it is not possible to fully monitor the production and transport of weapons of category A, which is an unacceptable situation for security reasons. In addition to the simpler business of companies, by uniting the production and transport of explosive substances and weapons into one law, better control of explosive substances and weapons is ensured, which is very important from the point of view of safety. This law also creates a legal framework for the adoption of rules on the appearance of a document and the way and exchange of information with EU Member States on the transfer of explosive substances within the EU. This law ensures compliance with our regulatory obligations with EU rules. It facilitates the implementation of certain economic activities governed by this law and enables better control of explosive substances and weapons, thereby reducing the possibility of illegal production and transport to explosive substances and weapons, resulting in the rise of general security to a higher level. In the text of the Final Proposal of the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons on the Proposal of the Croatian Shooting Union, Article 40 was completed in such a way that a new paragraph 3 was added to the current text allowing sports shooting associations to own ammunition in a quantity consistent with the capacity and possibilities of space for safe accommodation and storage. Furthermore, a new paragraph 2 has been added to the proposal of the Croatian Peasants' Union to conduct sports training with persons who do not have an armed list for such a type of weapon or authorisation for the supply of such a type of weapon. In this regard, Article 3 adds a new point of 12 to clarify the concept of a place for target practice. During January 2017, the Proposal for a Law on Explosive Substances and the Production and Transport of Weapons with the Final Proposal for a Law and the Proposal for a Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens with a final proposal for a law was sent to the Croatian Parliament. Those legal proposals proposed to put off the applicable Explosive Substances Act and the Arms Act. After discussing both proposals for legislation, the Croatian Parliament concluded that both proposals for the law had conducted a debate on first reading, and it is necessary to prepare them and refer them to a second reading in the Croatian Parliament. However, given that the text of the Proposal for a Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens requires further consultations with the interested public, and in the procedure of adoption and a directive amending the Council Directive of 18 June 1991 in the control of the supply and possession of weapons, which has been amended by another Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 20008 amending the Council Directive in the control of the supply and possession of arms, it is decided that the proposal for a law on the supply and registration of arms of citizens will not be referred to in the further procedure of adoption, so that the applicable law on arms remains in force in the act relating to the supply, registration and use of weapons supplied by natural persons or citizens, while the Final Proposal for the Law on explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons is necessary in has to be adopted urgently. In April 2016, the Commission Implementing Regulation of 15 December 2015 laying down common guidelines on norms and decommissioning techniques to ensure that incapacitated firearms have become irrevocably unusable, and that the adoption of the Explosive Substances Act and the production and transport of weapons will regulate technical issues of control and marking of incapacitated weapons. Furthermore, the adoption of this law as soon as possible is necessary for the purpose of transposing, by law, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on 26 February 2014, the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States in return for the making available of 108 explosives for civil use on the market and the supervision of them, which Member States were obliged to transpose into national legislation by 20 April 2016. As a result of the late transposition of that Directive, the European Commission has initiated a procedure for infringement of EU law, including the procurement and registration of weapons by legal persons, and by leaving the matter in force in the applicable Arms Act, in a provision which regulates the supply and registration of weapons by citizens, there are no problems in the exercise of the substance regulated by the applicable Law on Weapons and Matters to be regulated by the Law on explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons in the jurisdiction of the same body of the State administration, or the Ministry of Interior. Such a solution would be transitional, pending the adoption of a new Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons of citizens, which, after the entry into force of the amendment to the Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons, will regulate the supply, registration and use of weapons by natural persons. So, the very clear club MOST will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40838	Thank you. Second in line, the HDZ Representatives Club and distinguished counterpart Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40839	Thank you, Mr. President. In front of us means the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons. This law, as you know, has 98 articles, 90 pages. Now allow one principled remark as someone who is not a lawyer, but since the laws should serve those who are not lawyers, I think what was originally given, as a definition of basic terms, should continue to make that logic more transparent, shorter and simple to follow. Namely, what am I saying? Here you have what is repeated from one article to another, which is a request for approval which should contain documents concerning certain persons who meet, which must meet the following conditions and these approval requirements are repeated in the case of requests for examination of explosive substances, when placing on the market these things, in the manufacture of research and storage, these requirements are more or less the same, always in the repairing and disabling of weapons, the trafficking of explosive goods, the purchase of firearms, the collection of old weapons. All these requirements are required for approval for arms stores, for the use of explosive things, for the operation of mining operations, for the execution of public fireworks, for the execution of loud fires, etc. If these requirements had been made in one article, any differences in some of these permits would likely have been much smaller and much more transparent. On the other hand, in and out of the first reading, I said that this law, which means, shows the intensity of the legislation to reduce the number of possible errors in dealing with supply to use with such sensitive things, generated, somewhere I've counted the 188 infringements that can be done. That doesn't diminish the meaning of the law, I'm just talking about making it more transparent and simple to use. What I think, what we welcome and what's good, is that, as a previous colleague warned, accepted objections from the Croatian Shooting Union, it is said in Article 40 that "extremely shooting sports associations engaged in sporting activities can also possess more ammunition in accordance with the capacity and possibilities of space for safe storage of arms and ammunition" since it is obvious that athletes in these individual disciplines can spend more weapons than anticipated. I think it was 500 in the previous version, now it's allowed to be far away, to be as long as it takes to carry out that activity. Also in Article 45, the point is that the lending of weapons is not considered to be for persons who do not have the right to exercise and sports activities, so it is in any case to welcome. So with these changes and these kind of notes that are not content, but style sense or guidance, which would probably be a good way to make sure that those of us who aren't lawyers can follow it more easily and manage to maybe on some other occasions to respect it. Of course HDZ will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40840	Thank you. And now we're going to an individual debate, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40841	I would like to thank the president, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to brief on the provisions of the civilian range. In fact, as someone responsible in society was who had a civilian shooting range in his offer and as an object, there are a few things that interest me exactly. Therefore, it is stated here that it is necessary as one of the conditions for granting an authorisation is a document showing the information on the person responsible in the legal person or craft or person authorised to represent the association. Also, evidence is required that a legal person or craftsman has at least one person employed. Namely, this formulation "to the responsible person in the legal person". This means that it can be an employee who has all those conditions, later listed in paragraph 4. from 18 years of age, is medically capable of having weapons and trained professionally. However, when I took over this duty and colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior and our police said that an irresponsible person inside a legal person, but a responsible person, and this was told to me by colleagues from Čakovec there in the shooting range when I was, that the responsible person must have all of this laid down. Of course, I've been putting it all out to meet those conditions. Now whether my interpretation of what is written correctly is still necessary for the person responsible to have the specific director of the company to have these conditions on the possession of the weapon met and lodged or is sufficient to have any employee in charge of that part. Also related to Article 79, who is allowed to use firearms at civilian shooting sites at all. In fact, we've had a lot of questions from citizens who would like to come and try. However, as the law here says, the only one who can except for the official person is the person who has, who owns a valid right. Exceptionally, the next item says, a person actively involved in sports shooting. Now there's a situation where we can't commercialize our shooting range 20-five meters for a little caliber gun because we'd have to take all these people, and that happens to be a member of an association, so they'd be formally led to actively engage in shooting without having passed the exam. And then they're like that again with the supervision of someone who's got a way of doing it. So there may be a way to avoid this provision of the law, but there is no way to make a profit to civil shooting in a legal and normal, transparent way except that it does not go around some association that would then pay for an hour of use of that civilian shooting range to the owner, and then within that association, etc. etc. This is what we have met specifically myself, so I would be interested in interpreting these provisions whether in the future it may change or change or be complemented, and first of all this about this responsible person interests me precisely, because right now, I am no longer a responsible person, the second is coming behind me, who, by force, has no position. So he would have to lay it down or he was enough to be a responsible person within a legal person. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40842	Thank you very much. Here's another final address, State Secretary Mr. Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40843	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, here's the shortest. Dear Mr. Miroslav Tudjman said his opinion on expressions, style provisions, clarity. I would agree that this law, as unfortunately many other laws have not, may have its shortcomings in that nomotechnical sense and we should always work to make the laws clear to all its users. Although such laws may not have the widest circle of repetitors of those referred to as some, I don't know about status rights or anything like that, the goal is, however, that every well-organised state should be clear and there should be no doubt or any less doubt in its implementation. Here's what we got now. We'll try here as best as possible, more clearly formulate, so short, clear articles, but this is both the material specific and the users of this law, so the economic operators were partly looking for exactly this kind of guidance, so maybe that's why the law seemed to you that it wasn't the most contradictory thing to say. With regard to the observations of the esteemed representative of Curaj, therefore as regards the responsible person yes, it does not refer to that responsible person, who, for example, within the meaning of the Law on Commercial Companies, such as the Director, Member of the Administration, the President of the Administration and the like. Therefore, the company may, but in that case must determine by some act a person, responsible for a particular segment of this law or in this case may be another person, that for a civil shooting range and your other remark, we think it is clear that this law, that firearms at civil centres can be used by all those who possess a valid gun order, therefore, approval for carrying or holding and carrying arms and, of course, by an official person in the course of their duties. Thank you very much for your comments and opportunity to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40844	I thank the Secretary of State. This is what we came to the end of the debate, and I'm the one who concludes it. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This concludes the work for today, and we will continue tomorrow with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality. Thank you very much, and I'll see you tomorrow. Goodbye. Session adjourned at 4:15 p.m. Final proposal of the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons, Second Reading, P.Z.E. Number 54, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment in accordance with Article 199. Rules of Procedure. The amendment submitted must be agreed by the majority of the present representatives. Let's vote on having a debate on the government's amendment. Please, let's vote. I find that with 111 votes in favour and 1 abstention that we agree to conduct a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment. With us, Honorable Zarko Katic is the secretary of state in the MUP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40846	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 196. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Final Proposal of the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons shall be amended and the following amendment shall be made, in Article 19(6) of the Final Proposal of the Law, and shall read as follows: ‘the transfer container referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article may be set up for the purposes of mine action, the construction of transport infrastructure and other temporary workshops’. When the law had already been addressed, it was established on the proposal of economic operators that it would be opportunised to propose a broader formulation to paragraph 6 in order to allow the setting up of a temporary transfer container for the storage of explosive substances and for the purposes of other works and other temporary workshops, not only for the purposes of mine action or the construction of transport infrastructure as originally proposed. Such a need may arise when building other infrastructure facilities as well as various other facilities. This amended provision allows for the equalisation of all economic activities whose work requires the setting up of a temporary transfer container for the storage of explosive substances, without reducing safety, because the setting up and use of both of them requires the approval of the MUP, which will only be approved if all the legal conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-19-0.u40847	Thank you. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government and, in accordance with Article 199(2), only representatives of the representatives of the clubs may participate in the debate. Are there any interested? If not, I'll conclude the debate and put this amendment to the vote. I find that most of the 110 votes for and 2 abstentions have been accepted by the government's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Now we're going to vote on the law itself. I am voting on the final proposal of the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 113 votes for the Law on Explosive Substances and Production and Transport of Weapons have been passed.
