ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59629	Here now we can finally move to agenda points and, as announced, the first point is: - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Refunds, second reading, P.Z. No. 123. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85 of the Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59630	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs. So before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the Compensation of Disposal of Assets. At the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 7 July this year, it was concluded that a proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Reimbursement of Assets was adopted. The final draft law provides for the implementation of the activities set out in the 2016 National Reform Programme and for the implementation of reform measures to improve the public administration system and further fiscal consolidation. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Fund is the budgetary beneficiary of the state budget and the supervision of its operations is carried out by the Ministry of Finance. A detailed analysis has been carried out to determine the opportunity of the fund's contribution to the disbursement of the assets of the Ministry of Finance and, among other things, by taking into account the types of transactions currently carried out by the Fund, the payment of compensation in the money and bonds of the Republic of Croatia, the beneficiaries of the compensation based on the rightful solutions for the repossessed property, sales, nationalised and confiscated dwellings of tenants or protected tenants, the collection of funds obtained by the sale of dwellings, the records of sold apartments and the monitoring of payments, the recording of mortgage debtors and the production of swabs, the issue of a global bond of the Republic of Croatia for the compensation of the seized assets during the Yugoslav communist rule and the participation in the implementation of contracts between Svv. the chair of the Republic of Croatia on economic issues. In order to implement that accession, the Law on the Fund for the Compensation of the Assets should be terminated. By the end of the period of validity of the Reimbursement Fund Act, the status of the fund for the severance of the assets as a payer for the money and bonds of the Republic of Croatia in respect of the remaining assets seized and the future operations of the Fund will be carried out by a separate establishment unit in the Ministry of Finance. During our first reading, we had two remarks here in the Parliament during the parliamentary debate. One refers to the date of entry into force of the law. The first proposal in the first reading provided for an entry into force on the 8th day following the date of its publication, recommended that it be amended in a way that the law enters into force on 1 January 2018 as it will facilitate the transfer and draw the line on... the process, financial reporting, accounting records, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The final draft law adopted this remark so that the final draft law provides for the entry into force of 1 January of the following year. The second remark was the representative of Peđa Grbin, who proposed, in his first reading, that, at the same time as sending the final proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Compensation of Assets in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, by means of an urgent procedure and amendments to the Property Compensation Act taken during the Yugoslav Communist Government. After having held a discussion with other colleagues from other ministries, the Ministry of Justice concluded that there was no need for such intervention because there had already been similar changes in the laws especially when we talk about the abolition of the Fund for, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which was also apostropheeded in the Property Compensation Act taken from the Yugoslav Communist Government and it was inherited after the Agency for the Management of State Property of the CERP, etc., but it was also recognised a clear legal sequence from the HFP towards these two agencies. It also happens in this law, so it is clear that it is a legal follower of everything compared to the Compensation Fund in this case of the Ministry of Finance, so we have assessed that there is no need to go with the parallel amendment of the said law. Here, given the debate in the first reading, the changes that took place in the final proposal, I think the law is good and I believe it will get the support of the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59631	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59632	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, it is undeniable to make a technical change because of a more functional and better way of working. But I think there's something else to talk about in this House. The first thing I miss about this part is the financial scope of this fund. So let's see how much the young Croatian state has paid for what the South-Communist government has taken away from Croatian citizens. And it's all somewhere in the long Republic of Croatia. Because we very often like to fight politically as if nothing happened until the '90s, as if it were honey and milk, everyone was wonderful and wonderful and many were left without everything and the question is how much they could in principle be compensated. Just as we all forget that the first large debt of the Republic of Croatia was billions in 900 million marks for the recovery of the banking system and then by the name of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. And when we talk about both public debt and everything, then we need to take these things into account, it's just not something just happened since the '90s. This fund, therefore, is trying to appease the suffering of those who have suffered for 45 years, many have spent their lives in poverty, many have been taken away from them, trying to make up for it. I think that, look how much there is to discuss, we don't like to discuss things like this because we can't accuse this or the political option, but this is simply a speech about one time, about the time when what's most sacred is not respected, and it's private property, no matter who's national, religion, unfortunately, remains without what his grandfathers acquired, but the Croatian state, despite the war, has found the strength to try to pay back at least as much money to those who were damaged during the Yugoslav rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59633	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59634	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. Yes, this is the second reading, in front of us means the Final Proposal of the Law on the termination of the law on the grant fund, which we also said in the first reading that this is a technical law and that it would be good if it were an emergency procedure immediately and that the founding Ministry of Finance could be prepared for the coming year because we see that this law comes from January 1, 2018, I hope that these preparations in the ministry have been carried out in such a way that, as far as the technical work is concerned, I do not have anything special to add. But what I was going to say and I think it's quite important and the same is true for yesterday's bond issue, and this fund is also what you see, the main thing of his work was the issue of bonds, then the global bonds of the Republic of Croatia were also called, were issued between 1999 and 2016, and yesterday we saw one issue of bonds where one part of the debt was restructured, investments by the Croatian state in infrastructure, and in this case it was about roads. It would be interesting to see during that period of '99. by 2016, what was some sort of average nominal interest rate, i.e. it yields to these bonds and how, in fact, that dependence is actually a public debt bond, on the state of public finances, so that one parallel is seen, that this actually does not have any direct link between the public debt situation and the bond price deficit. What the investor actually said all the time, when they tell you about the country's risk premium, about the state of public debt, about the state of interest, but here's an example, so I say it would be good to see in this period when the Republic of Croatia was only concerned with public debt and deficits, it had no public debt or deficit at all, very well remembers counterpart Schuker there in 2008, that even Croatia as regards public debt was somewhere of 40%, the deficit was also very low in that part and could not get into the market at all. He couldn't get into the bond market and then he paid that bond, he'd better confirm it somewhere around 6%, maybe even something more. And then it was your reference rate as for all interest rates in the Republic of Croatia. Then the bankers actually gave credit to the citizens, when they gave loans to the companies, they started at that rate. I say, here's the government's debt somewhere by 6%, we're going to go to 6%, and then we're going to finance more and more. And then you remember very well at that time that there were interest rates on the financial market up to 9. 10%, 11%, which is now seen by Agrokor by how much he owed. Agrokor was in debt at interest rates of 10, 11, 12% and the Republic of Croatia was distributed around 6% during that period. We see today that when the Republic of Croatia expanded that coverage of what it all belonged to under the state, whether EUROSTAT methodologies had changed not only for the sake of Croatia but also for other countries so they covered both roads and shipbuilding and many others, HBOR, HRT, this morning we talked here and now they covered it all, even HRT, HH seems to me, one part and the airport, etc. I think that Istrian ispsion is going to happen, too. So everything that's now being put under the state, and now the question of the height of the public debt that's unfortunately here is when it's covered somewhere at 80%, and today when we see that deficit falling in that particular period, I think yesterday was a good issue of the bond, the closure of that part of the long road that when you see what debt they had at the time, and they were in debt when there was no deficit, when there was no public debt, then the road drivers were borrowing at even higher interest rates before it was the Ministry of Finance because they simply couldn't get credit. You just couldn't get a loan to finance any infrastructure projects. And there, interest rates per passenger company were probably 8.9 to 10%. And now imagine what the Republic of Croatia is the whole of this period of economic development, very important economic development because you can't have a developed economy if you don't have developed infrastructure, no one will come to invest if you don't have roads, no highways, no optical infrastructure, no rail infrastructure. It's just that very few people will actually come to invest in the Republic of Croatia because these are actually their basic conditions to come. And you know that, unfortunately, during that period, the Republic of Croatia was excluded from the use of EU funds, European integration, we believe, is now seen, proven, that we have been unjustly excluded from the EU institutions for 10 years. And what the state could do to encourage, in fact, the development of the economy of the Republic of Croatia, not even the rural part, but the integration, for example. Zagreb and Split and some other infrastructure projects had to be in debt at very high interest rates. At very high interest rates, that you could and most regrettably, in the short term, because you simply couldn't. You had, will you invest in infrastructure at all, or will you stand by, and today, when we see that many European countries, their infrastructure, have funded, based on EU funds, based on development banks, the question is whether the Republic of Croatia has been abolished during that period. Today, we are on the single European market, but whether we were cut off, that 10, 15 years of that cheap capital, which is the cheapest capital source you've had since 2001 when it's actually in US dollars and in Europeans was actually cheap capital on the market. However, Croatian citizens and the Croatian state could not use it as cheap. They simply couldn't use it, it wasn't access to that capital for the Republic of Croatia so cheaply. And we see yesterday's release, road restructuring, the highway seems to me, and very soon there's going to be roads, you see only one transaction, just one transaction, it seems to me about 160 million kuna. I remember when I was a minister, so we're here around 2015, too, when we were issuing that euro bond, it was the same interest as 3 percent today. The same question arises, at the time it was also some kind of savings, from 150 million to 200 million. The question now arises, how much did the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, pay, as a small country, its development very expensive, unfortunately very expensive, and we find it unfair, because we simply did not or were able to through monetary policy, over the past 10 years, the issue of 10 and 15 years and monetary policies and the financing of such infrastructure projects through the support of monetary government, and we know that we were very hard to access European or global markets. So when we talk about funding, bonds, you'll see that there are a number of other countries, e.g. Belgium or here, our neighbouring Slovenia, are being funded for example. 1% each. And we think that what Croatia was yesterday was that it was super successful, because we get up before 6.7 now it's 3. Here, beware, only, compared to neighbouring Slovenia, Croatia is still, unfortunately, financing more expensive, and ultimately, a great burden of interest rates, as it has led Agrokor to where it has led him. Because you know that Agrokor paid 2.5 billion kuna per year on 25 billion kuna, and the state pays about 10 billion kunas to 380 billion kuna... The debt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now you see these certain ratios that even the state can't simply withstand that particular burden of interest. And as counterpart Shuker said, there are many who have had to be paid off, you simply have to pay off certain obligations, the question arises, fair and market games, which all the time we want to be on the EU market and whether and why Croatia has paid for this whole period of time a much greater risk premium, a much greater risk premium than I deserve. Because there's always some part of you that's perceived a certain risk premium. And when you see the entire structure, the state paid very large interest. The economy paid very large interest, the population paid very large interest. So here you have 3 sectors that generate GDP, which generate consumption, which generate that demand side, and they're simply burdened with very high interest rates and as far as citizens are concerned, so unfortunately, we have 300,000 blocked citizens, so they have very high interest rates, so you have, how many up to 50,000 blocked companies and countries that simply had to cut billions of actually in the whole of that period so that they could carry out all these obligations that were actually set before it. So I hope that in the future, that the Croatian government, not only the Croatian government, but also Croatian citizens and Croatian companies, can finally be equal citizens of the EU, that is what we have said we are going to the single European market, that we will be able to use these funds, if we could not, unfortunately, our monetary authority, which is unfortunately 25 years of sleepover, as it has been used to finance infrastructure projects, because there is no development of any country, is the impossible development of a country at the interest rates of 6.7.8 and 10%. No development, no development. Take how much the country's recovery is financed, how it's financed, all of them have to be financed by long-term loans, from 20% to 30%, not to say by interest rate somewhere at 1%. And unfortunately, it is the price that the Republic of Croatia has paid, which it has paid, but we hope that in the future it will be a much more equal relationship towards both Croatia and the Croatian state and Croatian citizens. That's why it's very important, and this is about bonds today, he tells you to take the bond offering that runs this fund from '99-2016. Mr. and you'll see by which interest rates further that state had to finance. And unfortunately, for that reason, it had to return again, that part of the country had to collect from its citizens unfortunately on high taxes. Unfortunately, high taxes. And that's one closed circle when we speak to the social responsibility of all those who actually could and financed the development of a country. Thank you. So the SDP club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59635	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovac, you have far exceeded the subject of course which is here, although what you have said is very important. I agree that this is very important for all Croatian citizens, but let's try to narrow down a bit on the subject of this law, even in replicas. Obviously, what you've expanded significantly stimulated that number of replicas, because probably if you'd stuck to this strictly, maybe there wouldn't be a single replica. But good. I'm still asking that we narrow down a little bit to the subject of this point. Let's go now with the replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59636	Thank you very much. What my colleague Lalovec was saying is very important. Good thing he talked about it today, because if I was talking about it then someone would say that I'm politicizing. This may have been the topic for which it was due to request a break this morning at the Croatian Parliament. Why? Because Croatia has forced those who give us money to finally start thinking about Croatia as a stable country, politically stable and legally stable. The one who didn't have the pressure to give 250 grand a month in salary from 5 to 15, to pay a million and 250 grand in pensions, and the cashier's empty, he doesn't know what it means to work. And it's easy to attack and criticize. Unfortunately, Croatia, in a large volume of capital in the early 1990s, was in the war line and it missed us. Later, however, we forget that Croatia was in the primary surplus in 2006. So, when the interest went away, that Croatia had a 0.8% deficit in 2008, then the economic crisis came and unfortunately blew up where it is. However, why I volunteered for the replica is when I accidentally dared to say as a minister since we were simply peeled off with these interest rates, that Croatia should start its rating agency, then we were almost destroyed by various stakeholders. And why the rating agency? So because these rating agencies, look now, today Croatia has three, four degrees lower rating, and look at what interest rate compared to some other time. Unfortunately, we paid for something because we were in the situation that we are. And today instead of having a positive wind in our backs, that about the important and essential things where there should simply be no political colour, we put our heads together again we send a message to these stakeholders only you derite Croatia, they will continue to argue like fools, and Croatian citizens will pay interest. And I'm glad my colleague Lalocac opened this issue in his debate on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59637	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Shucker. Well, yes, I was introspective, since it's a technical law that we support here and that it should even go into first reading, go into emergency procedure. However, since the essence of this fund, which was actually the issue of bonds, I may have explained how this market works and actually linked to yesterday's release which I think is important that we also talk about here, not to talk about, not just talking about certain topics because what you showed has nothing to do with logic, or what the agencies have been saying all along, between the public debt deficit and the bond price. In fact, the fact that they are all the time one doctrine that prevails in certain financial markets, which have sold us for many years, simply when with a low level of debt and deficits we will get an interest rate of one to two percent. We don't now, we don't have the deficits. The question is, how come interest isn't down yet? So I agree that this is one topic, although I say it's a technical question. Unfortunately, all of this is finally pouring into the budget and we'll have the budget next week you'll see that there's still interest there somewhere between nine and a half and ten billion kunas. This is your level of the Ministry of Science. So just how much interest we pay, we pay the entire Ministry of Science, and I think it's important that we also talk about it that people get a sense of what it means to invest in education, we know that we need to invest in education, but unfortunately because of the high interest rates we can't invest in science or health because we simply have to follow very high interest rates, we still regrettably. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59639	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59640	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, this topic is very much related to what someone said at the beginning while in the former system a gun was taken away from private property and it was illegal, today property is taken away from Croatian citizens but legally through financial systems. Of course, I don't want to even things out so someone doesn't get me wrong, I'm just talking about the consequences. However, both are financed immediately by the bonds of the 1990s, the 1990s, and the first years. This is what you said today. I am very glad that you highlighted the financial system, more precisely monetary as the one that sucks, exhausts the Croatian economy and society. This is the biggest sea and the biggest problem of Croatia's modern state. Today someone here said we should be proud because yesterday, the finance minister finally forced foreign investors to finance Croatia cheaper. Well, if you were somewhere else, I'd laugh. Any borrowing of Croatia has always been presented as a victory, a success, I would not be surprised if someone organized a concert in Ban Jelačić Square when the finance minister returned. And over twice this interest rate is not 20% higher than Slovenia, but 200%. I am still stressing and I am glad to be increasingly recognized in the Parliament that the Croatian National Bank, monetary policy, credit system is the biggest enemy of this economy and society gentlemen. And until we came, the new parties were forbidden to talk about it. Why do you think Mr. Lalovac still has that theme banned?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59641	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it seems to me that today we're going to have the HNB Act, and it seems to me that you've also made instructions, and we're going to see that there's going to be a debate on the revision of one business of the CNB and I think as we have said that when the President of the Republic, when this High House can come under the review of the State Audit Office, I don't see why one institution whose head is elected in this House and laws are passed to simply look at and when costs are seen, I don't know the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic of Croatia, I don't see why certain costs of a man or a group of people who do business there don't see all the costs. However, not only is today going to be debated, it is certainly a matter of monetary authority because unlike other countries that do not want to join the EU, see what is happening to us. It happens that unfortunately in 25 years Croatian citizens have not yet gained confidence in Croatian kuna, that there is no debt in the Croatian kuna and that the entire market in Croatia is still financing as euro. Is today when you take an apartment, you say today what the average price of the apartment is, you'll say about 1,500 euros, right, when you take the car you'll ask how much the car costs, you won't say in kunas, you'll say about 20,000 euros, when you're in debt you'll say some... Unfortunately in 25 years, the one who was obliged to promote the kuna, the one who was obliged to pay attention to monetary authority and to the citizens about it and to talk about it, is simply leftover and the whole economy, we have already become so dependent on the euro that even today, when we are talking about whether the euro in Croatia is yes or not, the question arises whether we unfortunately have an alternative because we are brought to the wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59643	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59644	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, in your report I have seen, and every citizen of this country has seen that the state is in debt at high interest, so now I want to ask you as an economic expert and our economic experts in Croatia knew if the public didn't know what the interest in the world was, how many Europes are, and now I wonder why they were hurrying from here in debt? I know it was supposed to, but that way when the state owed 6% then the public thought that it would be a stable state, it would be in debt, and so we came to 300,000 executions. We know that after the war we tried to live luxuriously, that money was practically thrown into anything that was needed and shouldn't have, we know the failures in the Croatian state investments that weren't supposed to be like the Peljeski bridge that stands today, and I don't know how much money was thrown, some roads that were run, and they're not finished. I wonder with the right why our economists slept with experts who had to warn the citizens not to crash into such high interest and that the time would come, in my opinion it's as economics, the collapse. And we've experienced it now. And every businessman who's thrown high interest has eventually failed. Therefore, gentlemen, we were supposed to be on the ground slowly borrowing the state and slowly developing, not going turbo, so we all failed. Now that's a question, and I'm asking the economists of Croatia what they were doing and why they didn't refer to the citizens and why they didn't tell them that banks don't take loans because there will come a time when they won't be able to return it, as we see today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59645	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, when you look at the debt of the population, and now we're talking about the debt of the population, the debt of the population of the Republic of Croatia means 40% of the GDP, 80% of your companies mean companies plus citizens are 120% of GDP, and when you still take the state, it's about 200%. But when you look at the individual, when you look at the citizens, I find unfortunately Croatian citizens, there were individuals who entered and into various projects that were to make a quick profit, but when we talk about these 300 thousand blocked citizens, unfortunately when you look at their structure, the biggest part of that debt is somewhere when we look at 10 to 20 thousand kunas. So these are not citizens who took certain money to make a certain luxury but simply because of a recession that has affected the Republic of Croatia since 2008 when the economy has fallen over 15%. I don't know if any European countries except those Baltic countries that had such a big fall in the first year, but such a long recession no European country had. They may have had a stronger fall but they got out faster. Croatia is due to its particular structural problems, and one of these problems has been, and this has been the whole time warned not only of the agencies but also of the European Commission over-indebted our companies, and now the question is about their investment potential, means all the time and politics, and everyone is looking for investments because without investment, you simply cannot create GDP. However, when investments are financed at interest rates, as I said, as Agrokor was financed, it is only unfortunately a matter of time. There's no real economy that can return an interest rate of 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59647	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59648	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Lalovec. You mentioned a public debt, we must note that during this period of several decades, public debt is covered, you have at one point and noted, has changed. It didn't all go into that public debt at all times like it is now. It is good that the more it covers is done but it is in so much more difficult for us in these conditions now to justify ourselves to the institutions or community in which we exist. It is also important to say that some of the countries in our neighbourhood that are EU members did not charge for infrastructure like we did in the way we did in order to speed up our own development, so they were actually waiting for these EU funds to be done, for example. Roads, or highways. So in one way, it was easier for them because they didn't depend on this development and in that time we actually had to take on ourselves, here and we take on responsibility for what we need to do, or restore our obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59649	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yeah, because we can't develop very high and valuable tourism unless you have the infrastructure in this form that we now have. So we can't have five-star hotels that we stayed on that infrastructure we had. But that's all costing, that's why we had short deadlines, and they wanted, most of the hotels, only somewhere now a few years ago, hotel businesses were just starting to be profitable. Why? You remember very well and falls very large hotel houses that have changed and owners etc. Because they could get a maximum loan of about 5 to 7 years at an interest rate of 7 to 8%. Just can't do hotel business at these levels of about 100, 150 or more days simply couldn't handle it. So it's all in those numbers, actually. Just like we finance our infrastructure and hotel business. These are long-term investments for the country. If the country's infrastructure and development is financed at an interest rate of 1% to 2% every 30 years, also if we finance our hotelry, then you'll see our agriculture, so you'll see how successful they are, you'll see how successful they are. Normally they'll be successful. However, if they have short deadlines and very high interest rates, it cannot be sustained. I'm just asking very clearly that other European countries were financed, believe me, they couldn't be financed. We paid that price and we still pay it, ineffectiveness precisely because of that burden when you take the balance sheet of all businesses, take the balance sheet of all businesses today, take the balance sheet of all businesses. What do I care most about? Which is why none of this, when Agrokor happens now for the next five years, will have such investment potential, will be able to have investment potential because of these losses that happened here. And this is the problem that we are now just talking about one piece, but for the next five-year period very difficult to find additional investment funds to maintain such a high GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59651	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59652	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Lalovac, you said that the Croatian state had a set of loans while other countries were using funds, cheaper loans that had a 1% interest and Croatia had up to 10 and more. And of course, in these duties, the Croatian state was brought to have a large debt, that yesterday Minister Maric was also in charge of reprogramming or repaying debts from the Croatian roads somewhere around 1.2 billion euros in London. However, the fact is that when we look at how the debt was in debt and the way in which the borrowing was done, Croatia went down economically. So here we can only mention the method of borrowing and how much debt was owed in euro, in kunas. Here, we'll only be since 2000. Church 35 billion, Shuker 62 billion, and at that time it was also sold out, gold was sold out, everything was sold out, so monetary policy threatened, we know that 15 tons of gold was sold out, no one was asked, nor was this House ever debated about borrowing. Mrs. Dalic is 25 billion in a year, Linic is 50 billion in two years, you have continued borrowing, so you will say how much, how much Maric you are also following. It means that we've been in debt like this, and this Parliament has never debated borrowings. We parliamentary representatives are getting information on the media whether Croatia will be in debt and this is parliamentary democracy and I believe that all responsibilities should be, it is funny to the secretary of course, you are the Pharaohs, the people have chosen you to decide. This is a parliamentary democracy, no one has given a minister the right to sell gold 15 tons, which he asked him, it's not a pussy, it's from the people. Here you go, sir. I expect an answer from you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59653	Now, here will be answered by the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, not a single one, I don't remember a single minister selling gold in that part, nor is that an intelligence of any finance minister. When you were talking about borrowings, I'm just warning you, you probably are, you know that. So every time you talk about the budget of the Republic of Croatia, the component of the budget is actually your responsibilities, financial responsibilities and financial plans for the coming year. So here on Wednesday we're going to have a budget here, this High House is authorized by the minister, he's given him the limits for a year as far as possible... So every time we talk about the budget, about budget rebalancing, that's when my people talk about debt, every time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And technically, in order for you to do this, you can't just go out on the market, but you have a time horizon of a year where this High House document authorized the minister to actually hold his year financially because he has to finance a number of obligations. As Mr. Shucker said, it's not a simple job when you know that 1. you have to pay 3 billion kuna for pensions, we have to give for interest, 2 billion we have to pay for wages. So that's from 1st to 5th, just from 1.1th to 5th, so that's about 6 billion. And the VAT, and you know when you get the VAT? When you get it and if you get it during the month when the payments are, etc. Simply, technically, we'd all love to, if we could do it with current business, but you know for a fact, that our debt in the pension system, 20, over 30, is actually billions, health debt, is simple. For social unrest, it must be said very clearly, that part of the debt is covered by debt, and unfortunately, which is also paid at higher interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59655	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59656	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Lalovac, you said Croatia paid dearly for its development, of course you are aware of the facts and functions you acted while you were in power, in fact you speak responsibly as a responsible politician rather than politicizing with certain things. It is also aware of the fact that the Ministry of Finance may have taken advantage of one favorable moment, reports by the European Commission, related to GDP growth, and it is in fact... its bonds on the euro market with the book closed, registered in one day, at an interest of 3.2%, or 3% or 3.2% respectively. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the stability of institutions is very important. And perhaps as politicians it is time to imagine when we speak here in this Croatian Assembly, that both our actions and what we say also affect credit ratings, i.e. for international borrowings. And this 3% borrowing is still high compared to some EU member states. We're aware of that. But it should also be said that even in the situation that has happened to us now with Agrokora, which is not even a little benign, we have managed to get a European Commission report, in fact their statement that we are growing GDP 3.2%. So I say our actions, and in this case, in the case of Agrokor, we must be very careful when we speak, because it tells you and our actions are actually conditioned and listened to both from credit agencies and from those who decide on our international borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59657	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with you, perhaps I should remind you, when earlier, when, a little over a year ago, when my colleague Maric was on the financial market, so he failed, delayed that part, you probably heard my statement at the time, when I said no one was allowed to liquefy at the time. As a minister, as a former minister and as a colleague, it is very important that what you said, be careful in these situations, not to harm the Republic of Croatia. Because unfortunately, for some petty political reasons, someone thinks it'll hurt HDZ or SDP or some other stuff. Unfortunately, with such editions, you can only damage the Republic of Croatia, no one else. And that is why I agree with you, especially when we talk about these things, I think that in this context we should speak very carefully, because all of these things that we are saying here today and about the issue of these bonds, I think that Croatian citizens should know, which is why it is simply the situation as it is, but I hope that in the future, these interest rates, where we say all the time that they are the burden of Croatian citizens, will finally start to enjoy being equal citizens of the EU and that we may be in debt, as the whole world is in debt, because that's how it actually works. The whole world works, the Americans are even more in charge than the Croats, take the level of responsibility of certain countries. Scandinavians are the most in charge, Scandinavians, Norwegians, Finnishs, much bigger than they are in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, Croatia's citizens are in charge of their existential needs, but it's strange that with such low wages we pay, we pay three times as much interest as those who have a much higher income pay. I hope that, by entering European integration in the future, that part will be leveled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59659	Thank you very much. Now, please, as you can see, I didn't stop anyone from talking, although we actually have one whole other topic to discuss. We have a theme that's meant to make it very simple for me now, to stop the law on the Fund for Compensation of Disposal of Assets and that its function, from now on, will be part of the Ministry of Finance. That's the topic of the debate. I appreciate the importance of everything that's been said and in the presentation of my colleague Lalovec and all the replicas, but I beg you, that's the topic we're going to discuss next Wednesday, when we're going to talk about the budget, and then it'll be natural to talk about borrowing, about interest, so if you want to sell my own gold and anything. But please stick to the subject. Here. Now we'll move on to the next club. And this is the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59660	Dear Vice-President, respected members, i.e. representatives of the Ministry of Finance. So here's what's already been said, it's about the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Compensated Assets, which I really agree with my colleague, Lalovec, that we should have gone faster, that is, not in 2 readings, but this was to be followed by an emergency procedure. For indeed, this law can only implement what is foreseen by the activities set out in the 2016 National Reform Programme as soon as possible. According to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the public debt management strategy for the period 2017-2019 actually defined these objectives and implementing methods, in order to reduce the sustainability of the total public debt and thus mitigate the associated risks to a minimum level. Or that transparency and public debt management would be under one cap, which means under the Ministry of Finance, which, as the most responsible, can actually manage as much as possible the public debt which, in this way, through the formation of a founding unit within the Ministry of Finance itself, manages the entire work which has so far worked by the fund, which had 31 employees and as seen in the bill itself, is foreseen that these people are being taken over within the Ministry of Finance and will do jobs and responsibilities as they have so far. I would just point out exactly what is not beyond the context of the topic we are talking about that it is really important that both responsibility and political and economic stability have a strong impact on ratings and let's not forget the ratings of the state and all the other factors and let's not forget that some cities had a better financial rating than the state. So we have to take great care of it, and it has to be our goal to have it as a state and we see that it's getting better and that's what we have to strive for. I have to say that in all this period, the fund has done important jobs very well, and here's one job that was doing exactly this issue of bonds that were so-called. Global bonds since '99. and by 2016 they were bonds of series A, B, C, D and E, and their value total when we talk about value is over EUR 209 million. So from these funds and thus the fund then paid all that was necessary in its coverage of the business to do, and that is, among other things, the payment of compensations in cash and bonds, so the basis of the rightful solutions to the compensation for the severance of property by the competent offices of the state administration, and when, according to the provisions of the Property Compensation Act, was taken away during the Yugoslav communist rule, the previous owner of the compensation regulations in this form. They also did business of selling nationalised and confiscated dwellings to tenants or protected tenants under conditions and in a manner prescribed by the Law on Compensation. They also collected funds from the sale of apartments, records of these sold apartments, monitoring of payments, records of mortgage debtors, making... the obvious and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They then worked and participated in administrative procedures in which, in accordance with all these laws, the fund had the position of the party or the debtor of the compensation. They were also involved in the proceedings that this fund was a prosecutor or prosecutor in litigation related to the sale of these nationalised and confiscated dwellings. So this whole job will continue because not all procedures have been brought to an end, they will take place in the future within the Ministry of Finance. Otherwise, by the end of 2016, the fund had a total of 158 million around income and therefore had 4.4% of the costs for employees and the most significant costs in the total expenditure structure were contractual penalties and compensations for damages in the total amount of 148 million kuna, so that was over the past period. Therefore, in the follow-up of all this, we can say that there is indeed a justification that the operations of this fund are actually covered by the Ministry of Finance and that it will actually be a new unit that will carry out tasks within the current ministry and continue to fulfil the obligations that have arisen, which have so far been defined by this law. So, the HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59661	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate, we only have one, and that's the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, I've come to the hearing for the simple reason that a topic that is life-threatening, which has all kinds of human trauma, will practically go unnoticed in this House. You've seen in certain replicas that people talk about things that simply have nothing to do with life, but this is life, this is a historical fact, the truth of a political period. When all the citizens of this country, regardless of their creeds, would actually have belonged to one party or nothing after '45. We're running out of property. In addition to everything she had, with the care of the defence and everything, the Croatian state found a model and a way to try to compensate because you always have one truth. Whoever's looking for or who's looking for something is small, and whoever's giving a lot, and so there's some kind of justice that just doesn't come to me talking, but it just created 2 billion kunas in the state budget. I'm not gonna say "unbound" or anything. Why? Because like these 2 billion kunas, you still have a number of items embedded in the public debt of the Republic of Croatia which are not talked about, and the consequences are some period that simply have nothing to do with this state's policy, but they have to do with those who have passed these laws that have the sense that Croatian citizens have been damaged and need help over a period of time. And when we talk about ending this fund, then we just have to remember that and we have to say that. It's just facts. Because look at this nine-and-a-half billion interest or how much it's going to be in the 2018 budget, there's a part of the interest that belongs to these bonds, so when we talk about it, we have to keep in mind. Have you ever asked yourself the question of how much of the total share in public debt repayment to pensioners, how much is this package? Have you ever asked yourself the question of how much it is in the public debt of those massive rehabilitations of the shipyard, the guarantees from HZ, the incentives in agriculture, the strong retirement in the years of war. So these are all our facts and our truths that we can't escape from, but at least when we talk about this subject we try to avoid politics to prove our intricacies and ignorance by one time, but to speak realistically about the traumas of our fellow citizens. Because few of us sitting here who have no friends, neighbors and acquaintances who, for generations of their ancestors, have acquired in '45. without it. Well, not Croats, Serbs, Hungarians, Slovaks, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in '45. A year went in with nothing. They had a great wealth as well as a Catholic church and an Orthodox church. It's all being compensated through the budget, and it's all being paid, and it's all in that cube of big public debt with one little cube. And then I need to talk about it. But I repeat, someone had both political courage and political wisdom to suggest that he get rid of it, try to get rid of it, because I repeat here about justice I wouldn't dare talk, but something moral, something human must talk about. But we also need to talk about professional, financial. Because you know what, who wasn't in Katančić, he doesn't know what you're going through there. That's why more than once people here are amazed to hear that my colleague, Lalovac, and some other finance ministers, speak in a very similar way. Why? Because we've been through the same trauma. Because it's easy to sit and talk ex-cateral, but you look at the Croatian budget. Peace, wages, health care, interest. 86% of the Croatian budget. Now, somebody say in the fifth or sixth months and you don't have to give a pension, that you don't have to pay a salary, that you don't have to give a child's allowance, that you don't have to pay some social compensation, that you don't have to issue a bond for the compensation of this seized property. But it's all our daily life, just like our daily life of this interest, which my colleague Maric has achieved. And if you were acting differently then those white worlds who give money, they all ran to Agrokor to give money at the interest rate as it is, and today they're smart. And I don't care what happens to them and their interest, I care that suppliers and others who have sold their products that their workers have earned the fees, so Lex Agrokor was brought in. And whether or not a business bank will charge for it. So, look who after 2012, when Agrokor was found to be in financial trouble forcing factoring companies to work with the bonds they were doing, who was forcing business banks to lend loans. Well, they've got top experts, they're supposed to assess the risk. But no, we're going to fight politically and say that this or that political option is to blame. It's someone else's fault, someone who's in the interest of a state that's definitely got the power to pay off. Because rest assured, the Croatian State will not remain in debt to any lender regardless of the level of its public debt. We have great potential, we have great potential in people we don't know how to use. But we have something that is the power of the Croatian people, which shows this law. In the most difficult moments to show moral responsibility to their citizens and try to make up for them, which is a fact, as is an honest fact of coupon privatisation that someone has turned into something, but about this other occasion. And that's why I answered because I felt the need for the late President Tudjman and the people with him who created the Croatian state to say this here today. I felt the need to say, because he felt the need to return to the citizens of Croatia whom a political system had taken property, to try to return it to them, and I repeat for the third or fourth time I will not talk about justice. I'm talking about something that's going on, but when we talk about the height of public debt, when we talk about interest height, let's not forget that this is also a small segment inside. And we came up as we came into existence, we pay our own good and bad things, but a bunch of things just came up the way that we, as responsible people, just have to do it for the better tomorrow of our children because I sincerely hope that in ten years, our children will debate, have the interest that other EU members have, and this interest rate is among other things, the consequence of Croatia's entry into the EU, so whatever anyone is saying. But capital has its own legality, it has its own rules and these rules stick to the world equally. But unfortunately, there are some things we don't understand. Then very often, we give those who fuck us that height of interest rates wind in the back instead of pulling them back. That's why I called for a hearing, thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59663	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59664	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Shucker, you woke me up with your debate because I was convinced all the time that this wasn't the topic of our debate today, I was confused colleagues were talking about everything and everything but the subject and now I'm looking at what the topic is, I've even given myself a quick print, the topic is the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Compensation taken away from property. We're talking about this subject, and someone's imposing another topic. Why? It is precisely so as not to talk about what is today a subject, and the theme is that someone lives in Jewish houses, and it is not the fascists, but the anti-fascists, and those who inherited them, and those who took away that property. Now it's clear to me that I can only see what's going on right now. And who suffers in the end? The Croatian state, which they re-analyze in their own ways in every way. They're re-producing and looking for fascists, maybe they'll take something from us again, and then who's gonna pay for it? And there's one of the biggest ones out there who sits there, who often mentions me that I'm not in the assembly, and he's gone to one of those apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59665	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59666	Thank you very much. I tried to put this topic in the context of what this assembly is talking about. And I have to say that a colleague of Lalovac from another position also tried to put it in context, but in principle that debate was quite trying to point out some things. However, what I want to repeat, many of the things that the late President Tudjman proposed to his associates, unfortunately are not evaluated in the way they were evaluated. So we who have been in this party since the beginning and participated in some processes have a moral and human responsibility to say things the way they were, whether they liked it or not. Who does this and makes mistakes, but who has a good will and who has a great heart then and if mistakes are understood by people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59667	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59668	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Shuker from your presentation I saw was usually talking about interest and debt, and I'm going to say a little about the crime taken away in '45. In the year, not only seized property but expelled people and killed people in '45. A year. Well, I'm glad that after 70 years of discussing it, it's clear in this House that it was a crime, that it was an injustice to certain people. Today, someone is enjoying these apartments, and we know who was receiving these apartments and what country was receiving what personnel and who had managed them for 45 years. Of course, it will be paid by Croatian citizens, of course with the loan you say and the interest that are in our budget today. But again, I'm going to come back a little bit when you mentioned Agrokor and 10% of the debts, they've seen some sort of interest banks, so I'd say, like any other bank that wants to take something cheap, of course they put in their billions as a Russian bank, when they saw European banks that they couldn't handle Agrokor, so they didn't give him credit to the Russian bank jump in and allegedly helps Agrokor, and they're actually pushing him into further ruin and they want to jump up and take that big firm and company that was organized but over-indebted. Of course, Todorovic as the owner of the company had to know that he cannot develop the company with 10% if he is any economists, I again ask the issue of economists in our country. And what comes after that? Of course, bankruptcy and all that has happened now to this government that I am supporting, and I think it has done a good job with this Lex Agrokor, and I am glad that it did not go into bankruptcy, and I think it will hopefully get away with it and that Agrokor and the workers will not get into trouble and the Croatian state will certainly and the small OPGs that have been paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59669	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59670	Look fellow Muscle, we're this topic wanted to be done in such a technical way. But like any human, every disease has something to do with what's been going on around Agrokor that you've been talking about has some kind of cause. Well, this fund has some kind of cause, so nothing can just happen like this. Now the question is whether someone is ready to lower the curtain at some point and tell someone you can't do it or someone in future will pay for it. So the seized property during the South-Communist rule was someone who didn't want to lower the curtain, the people were unfortunately left without everything they had, many, just because they might have said one wrong word or sentence. Today, it's coming back to them in some way the way it's coming back. That's how this story about Agrokor wants to push in another direction. Did they at the time that they felt certain things were happening, whether institutions that were responsible for something had done what they had done had to be discussed. And we're not discussing some things that are quite imaginary about what's going to happen in the future because we should watch because if you came to a doctor, if he told you about this, and he wouldn't tell you what medicine you need to get better and you're very difficult and very fast in a stalemate situation or unfortunately carry you with your feet forward. So I'm looking at the debates of some of our esteemed colleagues on the subject that requires a highly, highly professional solution, a brilliant diagnostician, a top specialist and an even bigger microsurgeon to solve it because without it with politics, nothing has ever been solved in life. Maybe some cheap political points got picked up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59671	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59672	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Shuker, although it is obviously a law that first has a kind of rationalization of 31 passing employees, will later be redeployed as there is less work. What you mentioned in your presentation, certainly both around Agrokor and about funding and that's what's been going through the public all along, absolutely that Agrokor as a company was one, but it's still, and it's a system company that's done a lot of good. So she did a lot of good in the sense that private money was invested, debt meant private creditors and was invested in certain companies. Many and my Slavons who came after that, many of them are conscious or unconscious after the privatisation of certain companies that were huge, have invested a lot in both Belje and Vupik, etc., in the area of Slavonia and there are many cooperatives today. And they all look and listen and we here must never use this stage for a populism that can still have an impact on something that's in the real world. So all that private money in a private company and today you're looking at it. No one forced the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to invest in Mercator's capital, to become 8%, in Mercator's shares, to become 8% of the government. So they all had their due diligences, so these are huge systems that were working, that were underwriters, that all those reports were watching. So if they've been fooled, then surely, if they've been deceived at one point, and apparently this revision has shown, there have been some different books, then surely we can't put everyone in charge right now that someone's too responsible. Of course, the goal is to preserve all jobs and all suppliers. The suppliers, knowingly some and some had to, and that was the problem that was and was not solved, actually credited Agrokor himself but had higher prices. So now it's what's good and what this law has done to pay them all in due time and that all those little suppliers are settled. And as for the amount of interest, that's certainly what should be less, but we can't solve it here and in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59673	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59674	Comrade Curai, yesterday, former Governor Rohatinski said one fact. However, that fact is pushed under the carpet because it does not fit. So he said that until 2012, traffic to some kind of currency was practically neglected. He said it as governor at the time. You can read a similar finding in the revised financial report of the Agrokora administration. It's the same story that a more significant trade in regressive bonds starts out here somewhere. Well, now I don't understand it if it's obvious and it's in that period until 2016. Agrokor is in charge of 2 billion and 700 million euros, which are, in fact, evidence. It can't be politically discussed in one way or another. But it is also evident that it is the cause of this disease in which Agrokor is present. With everything that was before, but this is definitely something that threw him into a hospital bed. But did you notice, colleague Curai, that yesterday someone mentioned the fact that the former governor said. But about some kind of political quasi arrangement and engagement that someone allegedly told him, that's what took the big deal. However, it is far more important to me if the governor of the CNB declares that until that time there was no traffic, and then something happened, and therefore he was called on to testify rather than something that is benign. Because he was called there as governor of HN in the 2000, 2011, 2012 period and to testify to that period. And man brings out one fact that matches practically the paste-copy of what's in the report, the revised report of Agrokor but, however, colleagues and colleagues, did you notice that it was somehow media-accompanied... ? It's not. And that is unfortunately Croatian truth and Croatian facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59675	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59676	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Shuker when you were talking about the trust fund for the severance of property then you mentioned the coupon... The voucher privatisation was only short and it was actually talked about while the defenders were at war and then some were stealing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also asked some of the witnesses on the investigation committee if it was true, in fact whether it was possible for the exiled and the defenders to participate in this privatisation. One of the witnesses said it was true and that the shares were then shared with the defenders. But it was then depicted as a robbery of centuries. But what you said at the very end was what you put under the carpet. In fact, when it came to that, everyone forgot nationalization, confiscation, expropriation that nobody wanted to talk about at the time, and it actually seemed that this privatisation and conversion of social enterprises would hide such things under the carpet. I'm glad you mentioned it, I'm glad it was talked about on the Investigative Commission and it's good to mention it today in this Croatian Assembly. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59677	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59678	Thank you, fellow Babic. I said a lot of families lost a lot of property. Whether it was the country, the houses, the apartments, the factories, they were left without it, someone took it away just because he might have looked a little different from the one who had political power at the time, had a leather coat to his knees and could do whatever he wanted. Some people thought maybe I could do it like this. However, as far as coupon privatisation is concerned, I think that's where it's meant to be. She was the victims, the exiles and the defenders. She wasn't meant for everyone. Could Croatia have had two stock exchanges at that time, I have my opinion on it because at the moment when you look at how much you are trading today on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, it is clear. But I repeat this law and this fund has been passed to try if nothing else, morally, in a certain way, damage even a little of the financial citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Because I say everyone is damaged regardless of faith, religion, nationality, belonging to this or to what, everyone who may have been a little different breathing took things away but unfortunately in Croatia we can't talk about it because you saw when the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, about times where 98.99% of witnesses are still alive, we are unable to discuss and we have facts, we have living witnesses, and how are we going to discuss some times where unfortunately living witnesses are getting less and less?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59679	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate and we'll vote when you get the conditions and move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59680	The final proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Fund for Compensation of property seized second reading, P.Z. No. 123. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the Compensation of Assets. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 124 votes in favour, 1 abstentioned is the Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Compensation of Disposal of Assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59681	We move to the following point: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, first reading, P.Z. No 166 Proposer is Agent Goran Alexic, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the government delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Honorable Representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59682	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law I propose following a collective ruling in the case of Franak is the most important thing that should happen to finally end the illegal charge of interest by Croatian banks that has been going on for 15 years. The banks are guilty of charging illegal interest, however, the responsibility for it comes first from the CNB, second from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and not from the Government, but from all governments and third from the representatives of the Croatian Parliament who sat here in the Croatian Parliament for ten years, they are all responsible for such illegal and criminal behaviour of the banks. So, what banks do to Croatian citizens, debtors in loans with variable interest rates, is that they contracted with their debtors until 31 December 2012 in loans with variable interest rates, that's Al Capone-style crime. Al Capone didn't end up in prison for crime but for not paying his taxes. Banks also receive fines for minor matters but when it comes to real crime, they continue to behave illegally. First of all, I'd like to say briefly what is being achieved by this law. Therefore, banks did not correctly negotiate a variable interest rate with debtors until 31 December 2012. Instead of agreeing on the data on which to change the interest rate, banks have negotiated a very simple contractual provision that says the interest rate at the moment is such and will be changed in the future by a decision of the bank. What does that mean by the bank's decision? It's like I sell my colleague Bačić a car for 100,000 kuna and we make a deal that will be in 10 wars per 10,000 kuna and put a clause in the contract that every war of 10,000 kunas can change me as a seller. And that's all. It's my decision. My personal decision. There's no record of anything that would make it look like that. And the Law on Mandatory Relations is perfectly clear, in Articles 269 to 272. The law on mandatory relations is prescribed what must be the contractual act. The contractual act must be determined. The contract procedure also states in the law, it shall be specified if, in the contract, the information on which the act is to be changed and executed is to be contracted. If there is no such information, then it is an indeterminate contractual provision, if the contractual provision is indeterminate in that case it is unfair and harmless. Therefore, it is not valid and not applicable. And exactly what I said, it was ruled in a collective verdict in the Franak case, and it's not just about the franc, it's all about all the loans, and the euro and the kuna and CHF loans. And the bank has been ordered by that verdict that they should no longer behave like that. However, since the verdict is abstract in a way that does not apply to each individual but collectively, banks have continued to act as such and the state has done nothing to prevent them from doing so. There was one attempt at the end of 2013 when former Minister Linic proposed a law establishing that in existing loans in which no interest rate change parameters were agreed, banks must define, coordinate but finally negotiate a variable parameter and a fixed part of the interest rate. If banks do not contract a variable parameter and a Finnish part of the interest rate, then banks are subject to fines from 80 000 to 200,000 kuna and the responsible person in the bank from 10,000 to 50,000 kuna, so individual debtors who were orni who were very, very, very, very, very sorry, have filed criminal charges against the banks and here, in June this year I have one final verdict. In June of this year, the High Violent Court ruled that Adico banka must pay 100 000 kuna in the state budget and then the responsible head of the administration, Tea Martincic, 20 000 kuna in the state budget, because they did not contract a variable parameter and a fixed portion of the interest rate with one debtor. I have also initiated such a misdemeanor procedure and the bank has been punished at the first degree by 90 000 kuna for not agreeing with me a variable parameter and a fixed portion of the interest rate and that money goes into the state budget. So esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I returned a part of the salary I make in the Croatian Parliament, to the Fuss. But I had the right to do it as a damage, as an authorised prosecutor. And now I'd like to say briefly what happens if this law I've proposed is passed. The following happens, banks will have to contract in all credit agreements where they have not agreed on a variable part of the interest rate and the fixed part of the interest rate. But since contracts always consist of the will of the two parties, the two parties can never agree on it because the debtor will always want a small interest, and the bank will always want a large interest. This is why the state has to jump in through a methodology for how this happens. The methodology in that law passed at the end of 2013, which is why the problem has arisen. What kind of methodology would that be? The methodology is actually very, very simple. In any such contract that has at this time, according to my estimates over a hundred thousand, so in any such contract, the bank should call upon the debtor and propose to him on the basis of the methodology that the interest rate should be determined as a fixed part plus a variable part, but in a way that the fixed portion is determined as follows. Therefore, at the time of the loan, the agreed initial interest rate which is at the moment the only legal interest rate is taken away from that interest rate shall be the value of the variable parameter at the time of the loan contract, or the year before that year preceding and the amount obtained is then the fixed part of the interest rate. This applies from 1 January 2014 because it was the day when the banks had to negotiate those parameters with us, and they did not. Since there is an objection to the retroactiveness of this law that should not apply from 1 January 2014, I am ready to accept that remark and am ready to amend the law in this part in such a way that it applies from the entry into force of the law and within 60 days the bank would have to coordinate the parameters with its debtors. What happens if you bring it in? In this case, banks regulate that part and all debtors who still have existing credit agreements with illegal interest rates elements because banks have unlawfully defined them, all such debtors would receive a reduction in interest rates of 1 to 3 percentage points and annuities reduction of 5 to 20% in total. As long as it is not done, banks continue to charge illegal interest rates, so banks charge illegal interest rates, which means that banks are until the moment they contract with their debtors the parameters are criminals. These criminals are being assisted by the CNB who say they work legally, those criminals are being assisted by the government of the Republic of Croatia who rejected this law and those criminals will be helped by us if we refuse this law. And these criminals are not helped by the High Criminal Court who punished one criminal with 100,000 kunas of fines. So as much as someone is speaking against the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, I can personally say that the judiciary is still in front of the legislative authority and in front of the executive authority because that judiciary has reached a verdict in a collective court dispute where it has ruled that banks are illegally regulating interest rates, this judiciary has recently returned the ruling in a collective dispute to the High Commercial Court and will again decide on the currency clause, so the judiciary is doing slow, but it is doing its job, no matter how much someone thinks they are doing their job well. Now it's our turn to do our job well, so you'd be back in history a little bit as it all happened. So, as I said to the Law on Mandatory Relations, it was decidently regulated that banks or anyone contracting any kind of contract must negotiate contractual provisions in such a way that they are specific. The banks negotiated these contractual provisions in such a way that they are indeterminate and therefore the provisions are unfair and harmful. What was the CNB doing at the time when the CNB was supposed to prevent it as a regulator and a supervisor of bank operations? The CNB didn't do anything, however, the CNB supported it. On his consumer protection site, the CNB kept for years a notice saying, "The banks have the right to change the interest rate by their administrative decision". Well, that's criminal, that's something to write from a central bank. So imagine what the Central Bank in Serbia has done that is not part of the EU at all. The central bank in Serbia when it found that banks thus negotiated the interest rate was proposed by the law and the law was passed in Serbia in 2011. Well, that's unfortunate that Serbia is ahead of us. In 2011, the following is imposed on banks, if you have negotiated an interest rate to be changed by the decision of the bank, such a decision is worthless, unworthy, indeterminately not worth it. As long as you do not agree with your debtors to change the interest rate, you must apply the initial interest rate. That's what the court told us. We're in no condition to do it, and we're in no condition to listen to the CNB. The government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance and the Parliament listen to the CNB as if they were the Vatican. Well, that's sad. The CNB protects the interests of the banks, does not protect the interests of the rule of law, so Vice Governor Bojan Frass declares publicly here in the assembly that the bank's decision is part of the contract, that when the bank makes a decision that it will change the interest rate that it is okay and that it is legal, Vice Governor former lawyer. I don't know if you've seen the movie "The Devil's Lawyer", but that movie is about something similar where lawyers work for the benefit of large capital, but still one lawyer turned in the end and became a real lawyer. So CNB's the main culprit in the first place. The second culprit is the government of the Republic of Croatia, which in late 2013 was Minister Linic. So former Minister Linic bears as another carrier a great responsibility, he here delivered to these benches a proposal to amend the Consumer Credit Act, which said that if the banks did not agree with their clients a way to change the interest rate in a proper way, it consisted of a variable and fixed act, in which case banks must determine a fixed part in its initial amount, and that law was there on benches. And the last moment, so, Minister Linic's latest debate, former Minister Linic, is pulling the law off the bench because apparently someone has split out of banks so as not to pass it, and instead the law proposes a new solution in which he says only that the interest rate in CHF housing loans will be limited and these other loans should be defined by a variable parameter and a fixed portion of the interest rate, harmonised and does not say to be agreed but says that the bank will be fined if it does not contract. But there is no methodology, in that first solution it was written a fixed margin must be in the original amount. And that was it. If that were settled then, if you had passed such a law then, I wouldn't be talking here. That's for sure because this problem would be solved, the CHF problem is solved in court, it's a conversion, there wouldn't be any reason for me to run and talk about the problem here. Because the main reason why I'm in the Croatian Parliament is the problem of interest. The main reason. 200,000 families suffered the least because of illegal interest rates 15 years ago and at least 100 thousand more suffer. Unfortunately, our citizens aren't Icelandic, if they were Icelandic or it wasn't us or there wouldn't be banks, something would be. But unfortunately, our citizens aren't Icelandic, they're not aware of the problem, they don't listen to what they're told, but unfortunately we don't listen to what they're saying here, and we don't want to hear the arguments, we simply listen to the will of the one who's above us, the hierarchy, the military. He said boss, that's how it has to be. You shouldn't listen to the boss if what the boss is saying isn't right. We have our own head, we have to think for ourselves, if we don't think for ourselves, we won't get anywhere. I'm thinking for myself here. I wasn't at that debate about the impeachment of the government of the Republic of Croatia. I didn't support it, I wasn't against it, but I wasn't at all at the hearing. Because I think that this debate was groundless, 14 hours of talking about nothing, needlessly, the government has 78 hands, and there's something to say about it here and there, but to talk about it all day long, it doesn't make sense. I am pleased that at least one part of the assembly is filled today, and yet more can be heard and can be discussed. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia in second place, I said as someone who keeps lottery banks in their illegal business. Especially now that this government has not accepted this proposal. Because this proposal doesn't take any money to the banks, so there's no payout. No payout, just the interest rate regulated in the right way, that's all. It is reduced on the basis of a court ruling, on the basis of the law, on the basis of the rules of Roman law, because Roman law has one very interesting saying.../The speaker speaks Latin./..., what does that mean? What's not right from the beginning won't improve over time. If something isn't right at first, it has to be fixed so we can get back to the beginning and under the conditions that reigned at the beginning we have to regulate what not now. And I said, I agree that it will be applied in the future, not backwards, so I agree. Who's the third person to blame? In third place is the culprit of the Croatian Parliament unless it is accepted that this law goes into second reading because I said, I am ready to bring this all in line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, I am open entirely to speak between the two readings and to coordinate everything that is out of line and, if necessary, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to request the opinion of the European Central Bank which is not binding to understand and to request an impact assessment of the regulations. However, the impact assessment of the regulations and I argue in this case is not important. Why doesn't it matter? Because lawlessness has to stop. Banks take Croatian citizens to illegal interest rates that are 300% higher than in one Germany. 300% more interest is charged by banks in Croatia than by banks in Germany. That strong German therefore has a small interest rate, and this weak Croatia has such a high interest rate and then we are surprised that people are in blockades. Then we're surprised people can't live. Then we're surprised people are moving out. Well, of course they move out when the banks owe them money. The money if it returns to Croatian citizens in some way through a reduction in the war will also mean greater GDP because citizens will get the possibility of greater spending. It'll be good for the citizens because it'll be easier to live. It will be good for the state because the state will gain more in the budget through greater GDP. This will ultimately be good for banks too because it will reduce the share of bad credits in the future. So there is no reason not to accept this law. The reasons that exist are abstract. One reason could be that I did not agree to the story of the ruling majority. I think we need to stop this practice so someone has to approach someone to vote for something. That practice is very bad. We have to think for ourselves. We simply must protect Croatian citizens from the lawlessness they are in. From the lawlessness of Croatian banks. So, I ask you to think about this law and I ask all those who have supported this law that when the time comes to vote, they will again be for, this law is far more important than that law first because that first law can also be solved by judicial means. So anyone can in private lawsuit run a process and get their money back until for this other law there's no judicial way to solve it. Some people tried, sued the bank for overpaid interest, and they got that part of the lawsuit. But they also sued another part of the claim, where they asked the judge to define the parameter and the fixed portion of the interest rate. And the judge ruled, that the interest rate is worthless, that I judge you to get your money, but no, I can't determine the parameters, because I'm not an Arbitrarian. It's a matter of state. There's a judge right. We're the ones who need to solve, no one else but us. Therefore, I ask you to be constructive in this debate, and I ask you and your colleagues from HDZ to vote in favour of passing the law in the second round. Because passing the second round does not mean that the law has been passed, but only that we are giving the government of the Republic of Croatia an opportunity to build up the law and finally protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from banking lawlessness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59683	I thank my colleague Alexic. Four are replicas. The first is the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59684	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Alexic, I listened very carefully to your debate. You have very clearly systematized, who are institutions, which tolerate this relationship and our work of banks and our relationship with citizens, as clients. The CNB, the banks, the government, the Parliament, you counted it all. So as possible, these most important institutions are in the system, that they tolerate and not only tolerate, but support this practice of financial exploitation of citizens from the entire system. Do you think there's anything you can do in a situation like this? Here, yes, so your work is visible. There's a lot of effort you're making, and you've been together for seven years we've been fighting in that area. Together, when we started at Franak's. We've done a lot. This case was returned to the Supreme, or possibly to the Court, initial trade, but we see, almost a man would say that it was a conspiracy of the entire system, but I would simply say that we have a situation, that financial power and power have prevailed over political power. I'm sure I'm convinced of that. And you pray, you see here representatives, these trade coalitions, to support you today, that your proposal for a Consumer Credit Act passes in two circles. Just make sure they go through the second round, support and see how they behave. So please answer the question, what do you think the key problem is? Do these people who sit here, don't listen, do they, don't listen to the citizens they've chosen or act at the will of financial capital?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59685	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59686	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Lovrinovic's, he's got a lot of reasons. The main reason is that the CNB listens when it comes to banks. So everything the CNB says is heard, and the CNB is an extended arm of banks. It is the work of former bankers and they do not understand the legal language, but the economic language and only think about it will the banks have damage. No banks, it won't have any damage, it'll have a cut in profits. So, lobbying everywhere, lobbying in courts, lobbying with the CNB, lobbying with the government, I'm sure. I know that lobbying in courts, not directly but indirectly, because after the ruling in the Franak case, the power of power, was immediately a seminar in Opatija, where one law professor, Professor Miladin, claimed that the courts would not be able to determine how much money should be paid back, because they cannot determine how interest should be changed. From the beginning, the courts judged because some of the judges were at the seminar. Fortunately, this practice has been misjudged and the courts are now judging properly. The second thing, the Ministry of Finance, often listens to the CNB speech and makes arrangements with them all. And that's a big problem. The only thing to consider is the rule of law. Right and clear. Contracting provisions on the change in interest rates, the decision makes banks unfair and void. Convicted by a verdict. Afterwards, banks did not negotiate in these existing parameters loans in the proper manner, but defined them on their own. So again, in their decision, they defined the change in interest rate. It is again the same behavior that they were forbidden by collective judgment. So you should think for yourself. That's all wisdom.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59687	Second replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59688	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Alexic, you have made the main arguments why we should vote in favour of the bill, to go to another reading and to point out again that the banks have illegally agreed interest in the Republic of Croatia. That we already have court rulings like that and that still 100,000 citizens in the Republic of Croatia suffer from this illegal business of banks in the Republic of Croatia. It is an opportunity for us to vote to give this bill of yours a chance, to go to another reading and fix it, because the government has given a negative opinion on this law. Although we agreed on the Legislative Committee yesterday both opposition and position and external members of the Legislative Committee, which are experts in this area, who said a vacuum was set in 2012-2014. That this area is not precisely regulated and that banks have skillfully exploited and illegally accounted for interest and that this should be resolved by the adoption of this law. And that the problem of retroactivity can be subsequently solved through the completion of this law. And you compromised the proposal to sit down with the government to agree this part to pass the law, to the benefit of 100,000 citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this is also rejected on the board, and I believe that today, the Croatian Parliament has the opportunity to correct this mistake to regulate this legal area, to bring banks into legal business and to help our citizens. And therefore, the HSS will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59689	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59690	Thank you, Your Honor. A colleague of Vlaovic, the vacuum mentioned was actually a simple spin, there was no vacuum. Namely, I said in the opening debate, the Law on Mandatory Relations regulated clearly and loudly, the contractual provision must be specific, so the banks had more width to agree on the interest rate to be agreed properly, but they had a bigger width. That width said they can do it any way they want, but they have to agree, and those data have to be that they're transparent and they're clear to both the bank and whoever deals with the bank's credit. So the banks didn't do it on purpose, and they didn't do it because then they were able to change the interest rate on their own and thus regulate their earnings because interest is the price of my people's loans. Do you know what interest is? The interest is the price. What's called interest has grown by two percentage points and two percentage points. If the interest rate rises from 4% to 6%, and by the bank's own will, that means that the bank has increased the cost of the loan by 50%, 50% by just like this, not even blinking, and no one at all. And we can look at it like this for years and do nothing. That's out of the question. So it's spin that it was a vacuum, it wasn't a vacuum, but rather at the end of 2012 and at the end of 2013 exactly defined what the interest rate must look like, and until then the banks were free to define the interest rate in their own way, but decisively, not in a way that changes it by the bank's decision. So it's not true that it was a vacuum, it wasn't a vacuum, the banks simply didn't want to respect the Mandatory Relations Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59691	Let's move on, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59692	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Alexic. We heard during your exposure that hundreds of thousands of Croatian families have been robbed over the past 15 years how many banks have negotiated these illegal interest rates and that they are still being charged and there we are getting a partial answer to the question, which is why Croatian citizens are blocked, which is why Croatian citizens are completed and this is actually a great opportunity to help these same citizens. It is normal that if citizens had to pay billions for illegal interest, that these same billions could not spend on paying the directors, on paying the basic living needs, that they ended up in minuses in debt and that this resulted in this situation of debt slavery, the difficult situation in which we are currently in place. Therefore, this law of yours that you have made is very specific, very positive, very necessary and I would dare say even late. I personally do not agree with this proposal that the law is only applicable from the moment of adoption but I ask that the total overpaid amount be returned for reasons because it was a criminal action which is now confirmed by the powerful judgments. Therefore, our club will go after the amendments to this law to ensure that it does not give up retroactiveness but that it is certainly adopted because of the principle of justice and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59693	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59694	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Bunjac, you said you needed to help the citizens. It's not about helping, it's a sovereign state's duty to respect the rule of law. This rule of law violates banks with illegal wealth and when such enormous illegal wealth is systematically then the state must stop it systematically. And we're not the first ones to do it. That's what Hungary did at the end of 2014. Hungary has determined to its banks which in the same way agreed an interest rate in Hungary, therefore indeterminately, that all interest rates in such loans must be determined on the basis of a fixed part of the interest rate one, so one plus... that is the Hungarian market rate valid in... banking business, that was Hungary. I have already mentioned to Serbia, Serbia solved the problem in 2011. Slovenians for a wonderful miracle didn't have that problem at all. So it's not about help, it's about having to deal with it because of the rule of law. And fellow MPs, I'd like to ask you to listen to what I'm talking about, because this concerns 100,000 citizens, not your families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59695	Let's move on, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59696	Thank you very much. A colleague, Alexic, amending the Consumer Credit Act is something that parliamentary deputies should support, but as far as I can see, 78 parliamentary deputies have also signed. So it's normal to accept, and I don't expect that suddenly they became what they signed by changing their mind, that now suddenly they became agents of the banks, not the people we represent here. 78 signatures you have, it's similar to you all were giving us support here for the revision of the CNB, that law is later, that the revision comes to the CNB, but when there was a vote they didn't accept. I believe this law of yours will determine the i.e. There will no longer be a unilateral decision on interest only by banks that are only on fees and fees so far draw 4 billion kuna plus this illegality by virtue of which you have ruled and shown parliamentary representatives if the MPs here have no choice but to support this law in the interest of protecting citizens from further robbery against banks that do not act legally. You here represent the legality and foundation of the verdict that you have shown here, the parliamentary deputies are the least I can do to support going to another reading or some, as the minorities say, to say publicly why they signed this, and in the end they will probably be restrained again, and I expect from other fellow MPs that they will vote in the interest of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59697	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59698	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Bulj, 87 signatures of support are correct. I'm pragmatic. I'm not naive, I know that when someone signs that it doesn't mean it's going to be supported absolutely, it's clear to me. However, since it is not about passing the law, it is about entering the law in the second round, it would be the turn to support these 78 signatures in voting for the law as well. But what I would like is for the opposition who supported me to come to the vote. Because if they don't come to the vote, it's for nothing to support these people who supported me. So the opposition also carries its share of responsibility unless it comes in full numbers of votes. That's why I call on the opposition to come to a vote for this law, and I don't think it's going to be today, to come in full numbers, and to show that maybe sometimes what the government doesn't want to do after all. Because the government wants what it wants, or doesn't want, not because it's bad, but because I didn't approach the ruling majority. That's the main reason. If I had approached the ruling majority with this law, there would have been no problem, and I personally could not have approached the ruling majority because it was my base that defended me. We all have some base, so some things we can't do. But on the other hand, I'm thinking with my head here and I don't always vote against what HDZ is proposing, as I don't always vote for what the opposition is proposing, but it's always my conscience that comes first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59699	And we're going to the last line, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59700	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague, you have proposed a very simple and effective law, and it is unfortunate that today we cannot even discuss it because of this jam. For at last there is a majority gathered together all in the congregation, and did not permit debate with their yoke concerning what you have suggested. I thank the President, because I really don't think it's possible to discuss it this way. You have well established that the behaviour of banks, loans in Swiss and illegal behaviour of banks has led to the departure of a large number of our young people in that particular Germany, where interest rates are 300% less in order to make them pay for these loans they have raised there, which are the interest rates. And it's evident from all of this that the ruling structure has allowed banks to behave like this. And the fact that this law does not want to be passed on to the second reading that you have proposed is a clear message to Croatian citizens that they cannot hope to be fairer in this country with fair interest, with fair loans and that what they have raised in a interest-bearing manner will also have to be paid back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59701	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59702	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lenart, unfortunately the marble has yes, colleagues are not correct. I've always been told that I'm constructive, correct, but they're not correct because instead of listening to what they're saying now they're talking to each other, and probably 50% of them have no idea what it's about. Probably 50% of them ask why an illegal interest rate was agreed in Croatian banks with citizens has no idea. Mr. Milosevic probably has no idea why the interest rate is illegal. He's out there talking, and he has no idea why she's illegal, so I guarantee he has no idea. And otherwise, he supports me. In the towers, everyone backs me up, and now they don't want to hear what it's about. It's a hundred thousand illegal loans where citizens pay illegal interest which is 50% higher than the one that should be. Listen to my men! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59703	Thank you. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, colleague Lackovic. Here you go. Please, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59704	So the chairman of 385, who clearly says that fellow Alexic is now insulting us here by saying that we have no idea what we're talking about here, and that's actually talking about him and his populist approach to passing these essential laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59705	That's not definitely the 385th article, so you've made the same mistake. But good. We're going to the vote. We continue to discuss the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act, he spoke on behalf of counterpart Goran Aleksic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If they don't want to, does the government's representative want to take the floor? No, there's no representative of the government. Then I open up a club debate. The first is said to be a respected colleague, Miro Simic, from the Independent Lists Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59707	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The bridge of independent lists supports this proposal because we believe that this is the way to align the business of banks in Croatia with the applicable regulations and the introduction of a principle of equality that should be self-evident in contractual relations between our citizens and banks. This proposal introduces several options, several newspapers, of course, the most important thing is that we finally through the law resolve the way interest is determined and solve this problem that has been going on in Croatia for years. In addition, this proposal introduces the possibility for the consumer to obtain information, information and documentation from the credentials on a request and free of charge concerning its contractual relationship with the credentials, in particular the payment plan, the notification of the total payment of the principal, interest and costs, the review of the credit turnover, the payment specification, the review of the change in interest rates per credit, etc. In accordance with the proposal, the creditor is required to deliver within 15 days of the date of receipt of the consumer's written request independently of the date of conclusion of the credit agreement. So the possibility of a citizen getting the requested data free of charge, not to charge the fees that banks regularly charge. This proposal also addresses the issue of dealing with loans agreed with a variable interest rate, but without agreed data on how interest rates change or contractual provisions to change interest in the future by means of a trustee decision. This is, of course, the most important intention of this law, which is ultimately achieved in the proposal itself and solves today's shortfall, which is the legal gap in determining the methodology for determining the variable parameter, fixed margins and periods of change in interest rates, which are all the elements of the interest rate for contracts in which it is not agreed. The proposer has rightly called for a verdict in the only collective judicial process in the Republic of Croatia so far, as confirmed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia's audit. In that judgment, it is said that this is an illegal and unfair settlement, and as a legislator, I think we have an obligation here to react in view of the illegal behaviour of the banks, and I think we have an obligation and as parliamentary representatives to participate in this with our support. I will not enter certain details that my colleague Alexic has already spoken of in his presentation as a proposer in the way he thinks to determine the parameters and some basic principles of the parameters, I can only say that Most supports the way in which he was set out in Mr Alexic's proposal and we do not agree that he means to give up retroactiveness. We think that the retroactivity here has very much its justifications in view of the number of citizens this law applies to and given the times behind us, which the banks have certainly taken advantage of this subordinate position of our citizens and used to make a very good living in this whole story of profit. As for the government's obvious failure to accept this proposal for a number of reasons, we think that in this case the government should have committed itself in a very good way to propose its proposal at the end of the day. If they weren't ready then at least to react to your good will and, together with you, make a proposal that they're willing to support. When it is called on by the CNB, which claims that the banks were not obliged to negotiate the parameters, they were obliged only to define those parameters, and that banks would not initiate the infringement or bank for this reason. First of all, you've shown yourself here the high court verdict against Addiko Bank if I'm not mistaken. So the court made it clear how he felt about it. The CNB may have its position, however, the court has said what it thinks about it and therefore we think that the CNB's position in this case is wrong and that the government should not be called upon. When it comes to the violation of the principle of trinitation of the authorities, we think there is no violation of the principle of triotry here because we as legislator have an obligation to solve this problem with the existing legal void. So, with this attitude, we don't affect the judicial bodies, we just do our job. To keep from now on, it's clear that we're going to support this law as I said. It is clear that the law, unfortunately, will not be supported by all those who signed for it, signed its entry into the agenda and supported it by their signature. Why do I say that? Because we already had one such case ten days ago when MPs even though the proposal was eventually signed with him with abstention. That's why I think it's a good thing that you asked Mr. Alexic to vote on this by making a public statement. The only thing I would suggest to you is that you called in your address all the MPs of the opposition to come and support this. I think we should. MOST's MPs eventually did it, but that's not the problem. The problem is that the MPs, among them most of the MPs, are the minority representatives who signed the proposal, and then eventually were abstentions. So they increased the number of MPs present, and the law itself did not support. So I think you should appeal to them first to stick to what they signed. If they are not ready, then let them not come to the vote and help us who will remain with what we have represented when this law is headed for the procedure, to make this extremely important provision in the end. Although I must say again that I am skeptical that they will listen, although this is about the billions that the banks make at the expense of our citizens, some unfortunately through the budget are paid by millions and those millions that are directed towards some yet narrow communities are more important to them than the billions that all Croatian citizens need to receive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59708	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miroslav Simic, for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59709	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, fellow Simic, for the debate, thank you for your support. MOST has supported this law before, while it was already part of the government, so they have shown how and when we are part of the government to think differently because it is good for the citizens. So that's the attitude MOST had while he was in power. It's very important for the prominent. As far as you're against retroactiveness, I'm simply handing out my hand to the government, and I know that most will be for if the government is in favour, so then I give my hand to the government and I say I'll agree to that condition of yours, let's do it together. Because what it's about. Despite the fact that the law would not be retroactive, debtors would still have the right until the moment these margins were negotiated to get all overpaid interest, so that they would not be damaged if they went to court. Of course it's better to deal with it through the law, because then people don't have to have court problems. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is also necessary because it is legally impossible to solve the problem. So, the problem of interest margins cannot be resolved in court, I have already said so in the opening statement. The courts therefore regularly decide to return overpayments to debtors until the date of the application. But if someone asks to be further resolved and the issue of the margins court says no, I'm not an arbitration officer and I have no right to resolve it. This can only be resolved by legislative authority. As for the proposal that the minority doesn't vote, I don't think that's a bad suggestion. Don't sit in the assembly room but don't vote, I'll talk to them, and I'll see if they'll at least agree to that minimum, and they'd be good to vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59710	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic. Reply from fellow Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59711	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Alexic, first of all, thank you for pointing out this attitude of MOST, which I did not mention at the very beginning and ultimately better that comes from your side. So that's what our attitude was when we were part of the government. However, what I would like to say about this retroactivity. Of course we will recognize your intention to give your hand to the executive authority to support you in that, although we have a different attitude. But the goal we are working towards together is more important and greater than the attitude we are currently representing. What I'd just like to say is why in general, even though I'm saying I understand your procedure, why we think that retroactivity is necessary here. So if we adopt the proposed changes, then the only retroactivity in us makes sense. Because if the parameters and methodologies for determining interest rates are introduced, then the principle of justice, so I can say the sound logic itself, says that all legal relations should be included in order to achieve a uniform treatment for all. However, I say again if you succeed in reaching an agreement with most of us, we will, of course, be in favour of changing this proposal in terms of this retroactivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59712	I thank my esteemed colleague Simic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59713	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the law in the area of finance, so we talked a little bit about bonds this morning, and today we're continuing to deal with banks. About ten days ago we talked about this law, about the importance of regulation, or some kind of control mechanism over interest margins which are not, which we are amongst the last we notice is a colleague, Alexic, who has already said that there is a solution in the region as well. What is important is that when you look at the causes of the major global financial crisis, it means not only what was reflected in the Republic of Croatia but also in the world, actually the governments of many countries have shown that the banking business and in fact the manipulation of those parts of the margins where most of this cost was transferred to citizens and the companies proved that in that part it was not effective for both the economy and the citizens, and that joint action together with the Government would ultimately have to be profitable by the banks in all of this. Since, as the practice has now shown, many financial institutions have faced lawsuits, individual users' claims that we also see certain court rulings not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in other countries, that banks have illegally changed interest rates, that they have thus shifted the risk of interest rates to citizens. As we've been saying all along, not only the risk, the exchange rate risk that was being transferred to citizens, the interest risk, the risk of assessing the value of the collateral. We haven't talked about it here yet, and that's when you take some real estate, for example when you take a loan worth 100,000 euros, but after a few years when the price of the real estate market falls which you as a user haven't affected, when you want to get out of that loan then they estimate it at a much lower value and the overall decline in the value of the market... switch to end-user. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that is also the part where many citizens have actually found it impossible to continue to realise their loans, so there are a number of risks that would actually be under the Law on Business, the Law on Banks should actually be managed by banks, rather than actually transfer the overall risk of business and exchange rate and interest and collateral risk to end-users. Then you ask the question of a fair match, meaning when you say how many in cases when a recession occurs, who carries those risks. We have repeatedly warned that all the risks in the Republic of Croatia were borne by consumers, carried by citizens. When their income fell, when the recession fell, when their wages were cut, they were also the overall risk and interest rates and exchange rates and the decline of property values actually transferred to the citizens. And I think we'll have to regulate each of these areas in the future. I see that this area of the currency clause is still open, but this is a question that I think we can and should regulate not only for the past but certainly for the future and other risks of falling the value of real estate, because these are very important things that our citizens daily want us to talk about here. Unfortunately, here are all the few who are seriously involved in this topic, who are trying to point out that a partner relationship can be found with banks, and ultimately with both the Government and this House of Commons, actually to make positive decisions. Because, as we have seen in the case of the Swiss franc, multiplicatively affected the economy, GDP growth, ultimately on the budget, on citizens and on the whole economy, that this was a positive shift that the Croatian National Bank ultimately showed in its bulletins, that it strengthened the balance sheets of banks, that in this context it strengthened the economy and strengthened the consumer. So in the future, we will surely see what this one looks like, what the vote will come to. However, I hope that this, this will continue to be an open question and surely the time will come once and that part of the interest rate will be regulated. Because we see that our neighbouring countries here, too, are not listed by fellow Alexic. So now in Austria, the same situation is happening, where the Austrians, when the EURIBOR was reduced to them, and that reference interest rate, which fell below zero, and the Austrian banks did not return that part to the citizens. However, the rulings came to them that the part must be returned to the citizens. Because the fixed margin is actually a margin to you, i.e. the risk of the client, or the risk of the consumer, and he should not change over time when he has the credit. However, when there was a drop in variable interest rates, they simply replaced that drop in variable interest rates with an increase in margins and thus did not allow that part of the market where the consumer was supposed to use those lower interest rates benefites. And certainly all future rulings when they apply to banks will have high costs, and therefore it is better to also regulate both banks and end-users to accept this law and ultimately to be less costs, because every judicial process that is being conducted ultimately is charged to it and additional interest, so that this is something that we and as SDP's government have reacted several times and it has proved to be possible with both banks and with all others and here in the House of Commons unanimously confirmed those laws, so that we can be unique about these laws. So the SDP club as it has regulated in the past, or supported the regulation of this part of the bank's business, will do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59714	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, we have a replica. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59715	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, yes, the problem is that the banks broke the law in the contract. That's the first problem, and the other problem is that in that violation, you said everything to the debtor and they regulated the price that suits them without the will of the other Contracting Party. It has been banned under Roman law for over 2000 years. So, something that has been banned for over 2,000 years has been applied voluntarily in Hungary, Poland, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, possibly in Macedonia. So in countries that used to be Eastern Europe, while there was no such thing as Western Europe. Here, even in Slovenians, this was not happening, but in Slovenia they negotiated interest rates properly. But there's another problem. You mentioned Austria, but I will mention our entrepreneurs. Banks have negotiated interest rates with entrepreneurs in the right way. So, despite the fact that it didn't say anywhere that it was supposed to be arranged, this fixed plus variable part where they're pulled out that there was some kind of gap and hole. They agreed with entrepreneurs on such an interest rate. So the fixed part plus the variable part. And then what happens? They agreed on that interest rate at times when EURIBOR is, for example, He was tall. And they'd set up a 3+ EURIBOR, I've got a case like that, I got a loan contract, a single debtor. And when EURIBOR fell to zero, the bank increased the margin to 6, voluntarily. So, even in a contract where she correctly agreed on an interest rate, the bank acted illegally. It's one word of crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59716	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic. Come in, mate Lalovec's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59717	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's all the examples we hear here today certainly make it easier for both the finals and the courts to judge it in such a way that it will make judicial decisions, and I think it's better to have a legislative framework where in the future it shouldn't be, that the part is regulated and that these costs are reduced ultimately, in this way we get laws that will be easier in the future if it happens and facilitates the courts. But these irregularities you've shown are certainly called for by some other laws, so based on these other laws, they correct these irregularities, so I think it's better to have one law that will sort it out in a unique way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59718	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for his reply to the replica. We move on to the next debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59719	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So our fellow parliamentary representative Goran Aleksic delivered to the Croatian Assembly on Day 12. Seven. 2017 Act Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, which states that the issue of consumer lending should be regulated by reference to the law itself so that I do not repeat it now because of the time in which the creditor, in accordance with this law, has to define the parameter according to the reference interest rate,... At the national reference rate or the average interest rate on the deposits of citizens or currencies, and the fixed part of the interest rate and the period of change in interest rates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It further mentions the same law and Article 13 under which creditors must comply with the debtor by setting the parameters and the Finnish margin as well as the periods of change in interest rates by 1 January 2014. The MP also calls for the Law on Mandatory Relations and stresses the article, in particular, apostrophe Articles 269 and 270 as far as I have seen, and is related to the fact and integrity of the contract as a result of the act as well as where the act is unlawful or where it is indeterminate. In its proposal, it cites the High Court of Commerce's ruling in a collective court process that speaks of the integrity of the provisions with debtors on how to apply the interest rate. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave its opinion on this bill on 14 September and stated that it was not accepted and explained it in 6 points which I hope you have read and referring to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the existing law, the rule of law and the assumptions that should be contributed to the adoption of the law that you have proposed. Finally, the Government found that the above law is controversial with several aspects, so it says in assessing the effects of the proposed solutions, monitoring the application of the law by the CNB, breach of the principle of government triodition, retroactive application of the entire bill, compliance with EU law and consultation with the European Central Bank. This opinion of the Government all MPs could see on the website of the Croatian Parliament along with the 39th item of the agenda. However, the proposal of this law and the accuracy of the allegations requires the following. Therefore, the interest rates in consumer lending were determined on the basis of the amendment and addition of the 2013 Consumer Credit Act, which you colleagues Alexic, in your opening statement and spoke about in which banks were ordered to define the variable parameters and fixed interest margin in credit agreements with consumers and at these interest rates of exchange of interest rates variable according to the bank's decision. The banks should have acted by law and defined the variable parameters and the fixed margin. The interest rates have been established in a legitimate manner and their height is not unfounded if the banks have done so. It is undoubtedly confirmed by the Ministry of Finance and we have this statement from 2014 but from the statement of the CNB of 2015 on the 3rd month as well as in the judgments of the infringement courts in the anti-bank proceedings in order to establish the regularity of the bank's conduct under the 2013 Consumer Credit Act, which the High Court confirmed in the appeal proceedings. The data we received from the CNB showed that the interest rates on consumer loans were reduced over the period following bank adjustment to changes to the Consumer Credit Act in 2013. For example, for housing loans in the euro, average interest rates are calculated on the balance of loans, they are lower in the period from 2013 to July 2017 by 1.25% for housing loans and for consumer loans by 1.8%. In fact, the proposed law seeks to retroactively define the margin as the difference between the initial rate of credit contracts and the average value of the 12 monthly EURIBOR achieved in the previous year. The effects of such a bill on debt groups after years of bargaining that you have talked about, credits, point to large and significant differences in interest rates and margins between individual debt groups depending on the period when the credit is agreed. This would place one consumer debt group in a privileged position compared to all other consumer debtors who are in debt under market conditions, as well as with future borrowers, who will negotiate loans under market conditions. Therefore, it is proposed and related to the Consumers Act, that retroactively account for interest on paid loans, which are defined at the level of the initially agreed interest rates for the period from 2003-2007, while from the beginning of 2018, a further interest rate on loans would be determined at the level of the legal tightened interest rate. This would, for example, be lower for those loans, which have been agreed in the period from 2008-2013, the proposed interest rate for the calculation of interest on credit than that interest rate, on long-term deposits of citizens in banks in the same period. Therefore, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the proposal also rests on the wrong assumption that the ruling was made in a collective procedure for the protection of consumer interests, and found that the contractual provisions on how to apply the interest rate on individual credit agreements were invalid. The proposal to amend the Consumer Credit Act stems from an incorrect factual situation consisting of the existence of an alleged legal gap in the determination of the methodology for determining the change in interest rates elements, in accordance with the applicable Article 11(5). And you know that this was adopted in the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament in 2013, by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, one of the fundamental constitutional values is the principle of rule of law and the principle of governmental triodition, which includes several basic pillars that actually ensure the legal certainty of citizens and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia who are in breach of this legal proposal, from the principle of mandatory relations, therefore, freedom, the arrangements of contractual relations established by law. For the sake of time, they will say something else, so perhaps these disputes that have arisen from possible legal applications are competent only to resolve courts, and that is clear to you with the effect of a specific individual relationship. So it's a relationship between a believer and a debtor. Therefore, this proposal unwarrantedly and unlawfully encroachs on the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, and this may also be due to a stalemate, breach of the claim, but also to part of the Implementing Law, in the case of an executive id, then to the costs of the executive procedure, which causes one additional legal uncertainty. And since the existing regulations that are now in place already define everything mentioned in the proposal, and the courts judge in cases where one party is considered to be damaged, it is obvious that such changes to the Consumer Credit Act are unnecessary, i.e. they themselves are excessive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59720	I thank my esteemed colleague Babic for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59721	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Babic, you've mixed up that first law and this law. This law, it doesn't pay anyone any money. So, you've messed up this law and that law. This law does not mention any scheduled interest. In this law, it has nothing to do with tight interest on this law. The government's triplet is not disrupted by this law. Because I just told you about the pay phone, that courts can't judge the parameters, because they can't be arbiters. So, the courts judge the return of interest paid, so the surplus that people have subscribed is being paid back, but when a man asks him to, that the court determines what the margin of the killing will be, the judge says, no, I'm not an arbitration officer, it's the duty of the legislative authority. That's what he says. So it is precisely the duty of the legislative authority to solve this problem. Then you say "lowdown," "lowdown" is an illusion. It happened because from the moment the bank defined it, it didn't contract the parameters, it was dropping the variable parameters. So over time, the interest rate was a little low. It's an illusion. The right reduction should be from 1 to 3% points compared to that interest fixed at the time of definition. The bank had to define. It had to be harmonised by 1.1.2014 later, the Constitutional Court said that since 1.4.2014. And he had to make a deal, because the Law on Mandatory Relations, Art. 1022 says the terms of the loan return must be negotiated by written means. The old 2012 law sometimes called by banks also says to define and then paragraph 4 in Article 11(4) says, "Arguably in the contract." If he doesn't arrange the same sentence, then it's scheduled to be up to £200. So the CNB twists the truth, and the finance ministry later refutes that first statement. Minister Lalovac has prescribed a new statement prohibiting the application of the first statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59722	I thank the respected Goran Aleksic for his replica. My colleague Babic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59723	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, in my opening statement, I said that I would touch the Consumers Act, so I didn't make a mistake, but I did it because of the correctness towards you, because we've been talking about these things, not long, but we've talked about it and you've actually been looking for replicas in Croatia... about that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I listened very carefully, collegely, we talked about these things, and I said I'd do what I could. And we were actually waiting for the government's opinion, the question of the Consumer Credit Act. When you're talking about reducing interest, I'm here because of you and us at the club, I asked the CNB to deliver these tables to us, so I'll tell you, let's say the average interest rate on the credit situation in the 4th quarter of 2013 was 5.92% on the long-term housing loan in the euro. And the change in that average interest rate in July 2017 was minus 1.25%, and for long-term consumer loans in euro, so I'm talking about 2013 was 7.69%, and after 2017, the last publication of the data was 5.89%, i.e. 1.8% in July 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59724	I thank my colleague Babic for his reply. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. We'll continue at 13.55. It's 13:45. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13.55 HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, Living Wall and SNAGA esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59726	Okay. Here comes the vice president of the Parliament, tortured by the Most subconsciously, and puts us in that party. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is Friday afternoon, the Parliament is again full after the vote which, when our Bank Taxation Act was held, almost 10 people were there. But of course we are talking to Croatian citizens who will believe this exposure will hear and know how to value as well as these children who are upstairs at the gallery. Well, the audiences do. It is a sad fact that so few people, I have to reassess for reasons because again there is a very, very good law written perfectly, the law is quite concrete, I would dare say which Croatian citizens have been waiting for at least 10 years. And they finally welcomed him to come to a parliamentary debate, and right at first I must say that the Living Wall Club will support this law, because he, even in this form without amendments, does not deserve any further debate. I don't know how I'd better recommend this law, but here I say once again, warmly recommend it, it's really very good. This is about the fact that this law seeks to correct a long-standing injustice and farce, in fact, one crime of robbing Croatian citizens, all of us, and even those of us who are here in the Parliament, who have spent banks in connection with political structures and who have achieved abnormal profits in Croatia that would not have achieved in any other country of Europe, and especially not in that orderly country. As I said two days ago, banks have a tax haven in Croatia. So they can do whatever they can't do in the same countries where they usually come from. They are literally rich here in the torment of our citizens, the sweat of our workers, the efforts of our farmers, the peasants. Only in that remarkable fraud of the Swiss franc did the bank take at least 10 billion kunas to the citizens with the blessing of the CNB and the government at the time, although it was long known that the same fraud had taken place in Australia in the 1980s and that the Australian state had finally ended such fraud and returned what had been robbed to the people. The same thing that the Australian government did, so about thirty years ago now it's trying to make both MP Alexic and all his honor. Except that the bank stole ten billion at least through a Swiss loan, the banks took a minimum, but I repeat, it's the wide-ranging 5 billion kuna on illegal interest. She probably took a lot more, and possibly twice as many. On fees that are also illegal and that do not exist in countries, so where do these banks come from each year, they take 4 billion. 20 years ago, the last banks took 80 billion. I don't know what kind of fiction you've got in your bank account. I don't know how to wash carpets in a bank. I don't know what they didn't come up with, breathing air on the counters. Even as in Turkish times, you know in Turkish times there was a tax on sultan's teeth. That's the living truth. Here we now also have Croatian fees that no one has ever heard of, but they are regularly still charged, 4 billion goes somewhere. Where'd he go? Do you have four billion in your account, Mr. Bull, please, we'll bring you in immediately, or perhaps Mr. Shucker? Now that's another question. Someone took 25, 30 billion. So where's 25, 30 billion? So where's the money? ... Yeah, then I have them, maybe they're at my place. [[You can't hear it.]] It is known that I was the president of PBZ and the bank governor I was and I was the finance minister as Mr. Shucker, maybe I really took it. So now I'm playing some fake modesty here, right? But somewhere they are. And they're not with someone with a phantom mystery or an IT, an alien, but they're with a living man with a name and a last name. That's what someone's got. My money and your money, someone's got it in their account. What account? Well, maybe here's to custody. And we have 75 billion kuna in our custody accounts, and nobody knows who their owners are alive. There's someone in the account. What account? Well, maybe here's to custody, and we've got 75 billion kuna bills in Croatia. No one alive knows who their owners are, you have no idea who owns the INA, custody account. Well, you're thinking of who's behind that account. Now we're reading in the paper some Paradise paper, Panama paper. There is a Serbian minister at the expense of 100m euros, perhaps some Croatian. I don't even think there is. People who are very serious, very well-intentioned, very professional in their business say that in Croatia, millions of fees are taken to make jobs, but not in kunas, in euro of course. And someone is stealing from our citizens. And Mr. Aleksic here has made it clear who he is, he has shown the rightful verdict, make sure that the banks steal the citizens. And that after the preeminent judgments have been passed, they are still not executed, they are not executed. So let me know which state we live in, lest the judgments of power be carried out, but they are not carried out. And now he's trying to put an end to such bad practice with this law. He's even so benigan, I'd dare say he's offering the government that laws... retroactive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where I stand up to you, Mr. Alexic. It has to be retroactive, they have to bring back every kuna they've stolen to this people, I won't give them any lip, I won't give them anything, at least from a living wall. The thieves won't go unpunished. Justice and righteousness must be served. Only in the years of the most difficult recession from 2007 to 2013 did the banks have 28 billion kunas while people were bending, crying, praying, godmothers, under wraps, under blocks, in debt, under these illegal interest rates. In Zagreb, palaces, palaces, bank administrations were built the most expensive marble, carpets, curtains, elevators, security guards on 50 floors where people walk in the most expensive clothes, branded where administrations pay their salaries there are 200 thousand kuna per month and bonuses per few million kuna per year. Are we, indeed, so ignorant, so weak that we allow our people to be abused and exploited. Are we really such incompetents that we have allowed Croatia to become a colony, a colony. This is, this is no longer a state, this is a prison. A prison where the only difference between a real prison is that you can escape from this. This is where the door is unlocked. Still one who has the will and who has the strength, who can get out of here and go into a better life. And it is unfortunate that we in Croatia today have parallel power. This authority that should be above all in the Republic of Croatia, absolutely above all, the legislative authority, the Croatian Parliament that has existed for centuries that we have a government there in the Croatian banks and I don't know the banks' associations as it is called that makes decisions beyond us and that are above those decisions that we make. They can buy everything, they think they can buy both love and state and God, and whatever comes to mind, so can parliamentary representatives. And it's sad that some parliamentary deputies like bank employees are like working for them, that they're here looking for some alibis just like they were looking for on that Bank Taxation Act why this law won't be passed. So this point, that point, that paragraph, that item, anything just to find something that can be challenged, so that it can be slowed down and the banks as Mr. Alexic said continue to charge illegal interest still do not pay back to Croatian citizens what was rightfully ruled. They're laughing in our faces, dear gentlemen. That's what they're doing to us. And you still don't have the will to resist. And then what can I say? You didn't deserve anything else. And now imagine, be careful what I said just so we're clear, that's what Mr. Shakespeare said that there's no confusion, so now it doesn't turn out that I'm here as well as I have my own autonomous theory. And now imagine, here comes the Government with the budget that we have a deficit of 5 billion kuna, if we were to return that money according to these laws proposed by Mr. Alexic, we would cover that deficit for the second. If we were to return money stolen from Swiss francs, from fees, etc., we would have about 25 to 30 billion kunas at our disposal that we could raise to 3% of GDP but raise it to 9%, raise GDP to China and Japan and South Korea, means leading countries for GDP growth in the world or India. They'd buy INA without a problem. The citizens would raise their pensions by 20% at least immediately. ... consumption, jobs would be opened, the number of executions would be lower immediately, the number of blockades would be smaller, the number of emigrations would be lower immediately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A fearsome positive effect would be on society, amazing. Well, that's what we're waiting for. Here's the law we're waiting for, Agent Alexic, as a cold sun. That's what you were supposed to bring to the Parliament, not you, but everyone who was here before you and knew what the condition was but they weren't interested, but they brought us the law, they brought us laws about how much gas there had to be in the air conditioning. It's as if it matters now how much it has to be. I don't care if there's gonna be a liter or two, it's a question for the installers and not for the MPs. We could do miracles, miracles if we could get our own money back. And banks, banks have total assets of $400 billion in their accounts. Be careful they have 3 and some Croatian budgets and they still need them and they still don't have enough. They've never had enough, they're hungry mouths that wish they could swallow an entire globe like an ice cream ball just to have someone give them that possibility. They don't care what citizens suffer, what is hard for them, what they have nothing to eat, what they have nothing to wear, what they have nothing to warm themselves with. They're even happy when citizens suffer, it's such a brain that he's satisfied with it, it gives him a sense of power. It's not even a question of money anymore, it's a question of badness. Human badness and the bottom. Who in that Star Wars movie, the dark side of existence. Bank, I also remind you of the entire Croatian public, so we've rescheduled them, we've given to the banks $13 billion. Croatian citizens rescheduled banks, our money, budget money, then sold them to foreigners. You know how much we got for $13 billion? For 13 billion, we sold the banks for a billion. And where there is some sense of political, economic, social, where it is now good to tell these banks that they have in any way participated in all these problems that the Croatian state has today. And that is why I would like to say once again here, Mr Alexic, I recommend your law to all MPs and the entire Croatian public, support this law, this law is fair and long-awaited, necessary. And the moment it is voted, the entire state in Croatia will significantly improve for the better, not just those citizens who will receive money from the subscription interest. And that is what is important to understand, this law achieves justice, this law achieves a better future for all Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59727	I thank the esteemed Mr Branimir Bunjac, who participated in the debate on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, my apologies to both you and my colleagues from the Bridge. We have two replicas, a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59728	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, what you last said, you're absolutely right. If this law is passed, it will relieve Croatian citizens, based on the rule of law, and not on any flossules, union games that are played here in the Parliament, some rights for these or for those, but in accordance with Croatian laws. Retroactivity, I said why I'd be for retroactivity. If the government gives me a hand that's for, I'll be there for that retroactiveness, just to get that law passed. But you can see that this assembly is empty, and it's talking about a law that concerns at this point at least 100,000 Croatian families to whom banks charge increased interest, illegally determined with illegal parameters. The representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament are not interested. No opposition, no government. They don't care. How come they're not interested in such a law? The opposition believes it's all good, I understand. HDZ, when I talk to them in the towers, there's a lot of them that support me, believe me, they support me, but they can't be about party discipline to the law. But that doesn't justify them. So each of us here in some things would have to vote for conscience and for the knowledge that is in what is voted for. And believe me, I'm going to ask all these people who are here right now, specifically what's wrong with the bank's work, exactly, in detail, the way I explain it all the time here in Parliament, probably most people wouldn't know how to explain it. Well, if you'll excuse my colleague, Bunjac, you probably wouldn't know either. And that's why now's the time for everyone to get to know it a little bit better and find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59729	I thank my colleague Alexic for the replica. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59730	Thank you very much, dear representative Alexic. What you just said is very interesting. You have, you say, the support of HDZ counsel and I believe you have it, and I have it, too, amazingly. Many HDZ MPs, for example, congratulate me when I'm in the semi-lime with their diameter. Of course, when no one sees it. But when Friday comes, the vote of 12 hours, they'll all vote like one, which apparently means that someone above the MPs, someone above them. Someone so powerful, that they can be intimidated, that they can be pressed, that they can be dictated and that everyone like a robot reacts and votes at the same time. They will say that even the representatives of the Living Wall, you would have done the same if you were in our shoes. No, you wouldn't. Here, we've shown many times that we've raised our hands for HDZ laws as well. Here's when Mr. Culey wanted his immunity removed, we were against it. We defended their representative. Today we voted in favour of the law on unfair trade... which was submitted by the Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We didn't go against that law now, because it was transferred by the HDZ. No, we voted for that law. Because, okay, unfair commercial practice, we need to discuss this second reading. People should be allowed to submit their amendments. And that's okay. So people are buying bad goods in stores and why don't we just support some kind of concrete law. But, on the other hand, when you pass a concrete law, when I pass a concrete law, a bridge, or any other party opposition, it refuses, just because you filed it. And that's why this assembly is empty now. Nobody's interested in the content, it's all about form. And of course, the worst of all the instructions that come from us, the invisible centers of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59731	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59732	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, this law is too important and this painting is too sad. I listened to what you said and I agree with everything you said, but you know I'm lying about it. However, I would only correct you in one thing, in one thing you said. You said it was a transparent mouth that if I could swallow the whole country, plus 5%. It's either 6 or 12. The whole country, plus 6% I means in 14 and 15 about the law concerning hundreds of thousands of people in Croatia, we have a similar situation as when we discussed those amendments to the amendments to the Executive Act. Who are you talking to? Who am I talking to? Who's your colleague Alexic telling this to? Too sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59733	I thank my colleague Runtic. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59734	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Runtic, yes, you mentioned an interesting question that I did not deal with in my presentation, for example. that the interest we already have in Croatia is, let's say legal interest rather than illegal, too high in relation to the countries from which these banks come. So Raiffeisen Bank, I don't know, Erste Bank, PBZ have Intessa which is an Italian bank, have greater interest, legally in Croatia than in their own country. Well, then those bigger interest rates they have to have even more illegal interest. So it's really a phenomenon of its kind. If I were a banker, I would certainly have opened a bank in Zagreb, it would not have occurred to me if we opened it in Milan, Paris or Germany, regardless of how much richer these countries are than we are, without regard to the fact that citizens have much more savings, much higher wages, certainly to come to Croatia. Well, you can do whatever you want here, so banks don't tax here at all. You have legitimate interest too huge, fees, illegal interest rates, you can fool around with a course and what's most important of all, you have a government on batteries, when you wind them up they raise their hands the way you want them to. But no matter what the MPs don't listen to, here we have some audience up there that I believe will one day see how things are. The last time I spoke was in front of an empty house, but on Facebook, I was watched by 1,000 people, 400 of them commented. It's slowly changing consciousness. This government is only 13 months old, and their prime minister is the most hated man in the country. It's an enviable success, respectable, it's a quick speed to melt the trust that he had in 9/11 that was huge. So let's just keep him out of the session, let him vote against the law, the opposition, make fun of and make fun of other parties, but it won't be long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59735	I thank my colleagues, Bunjac. I'm glad you're in the dark. Next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59736	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's as I said in the replica and here I see and fellow Alexic has given the law in which we're discussing, unfortunately I can't turn my back like this because I think it's more polite because there's no one, I mean, look at the assembly on a very important law, I apologize to the chairman and I apologize to the lady who keeps the record that this way we're talking about where we have the chairman and one member, otherwise I don't like to count, one from most of them. from the HDZ, Ms. Rosčić, 2, 4, 5 from MOST, 1 from the minority, 1 from the Living Wall as the promoter and SNAGA, he goes and says Alexic, we have Mr. Lovrinović. This proposal is basically where I told my colleague Alexic that there is also a verdict, which means the legality of respecting the laws of the bank is essentially what every citizen, individual, institution should respect. In this case, so he was just saying that Adico bank lost essentially slow, here only to determine what is normal that banks can't unilaterally determine the amount of interest. This should be supported in the first reading unanimously, which is why it will not be realized it is now a question for us MPs because the fact that 78, it seems to me, has been signed by the MPs, means most MPs, more than there is a ruling coalition, and I hope if even the national minorities have signed at least that they will come out if they won't vote, so here's to overstep... from the opposition in such a way as to be possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Abstention at this point gives only a number of votes needed for the law, so here is one proposal immediately to the minority. I won't repeat that we can't be agents of the banks, it's not our right if they've worked so far we know that the banks of 4 billion kunas are taken annually for fees and some kind of interest-free fee, which is confirmed by former finance minister Lalovec, on more than one occasion, we have nothing to believe. Here I have just given the amendment a very important one where the prime minister tours such fires and floods the whole of Dalmatia from 20 to 100 million kunas have raised support for damages from elementary disasters, I have wasted an amendment to raise another 200,000 kunas, only reported damages are 2 billion and 300 million kunas. And they didn't accept it. So at the expense of the citizens we're working on, here's this bank that takes a commission from our citizens, a variety of fees, four billion kunas a year. Four billion kunas each year take the money. This debate is even worse, but tomorrow is a day of memories where surely these people in Vukovar and the entire country of Croatia did not fight for such a country, certainly not Vukovar City hero in that way suffered for this country, for a country where 2/3 of Croatia will suffer. Tomorrow, we're going to all drink to remember these people and the victims of Vukovar and the victims of the Homeland War, people who gave their lives more than we all did together because life is the most valuable thing. Well, I don't see why they wouldn't pass me this bill, basically that would just follow the law. If there's a verdict, you've shown it to a colleague, I don't see any reason and no argument against this. I don't know how these opponents will be able to say why. But it hurts me more 78 signatures and the last time we discussed your proposal, it also hurts 78 signatures but to enter another reading, at least that the government is manifesting itself. I see that you are the man you can talk to and coordinate it in the best faith and be retroactive if you can't retroactively, if you can't retroactively... It's coming into effect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you agree to everything. Well, I don't see any reason why fellow Alexic, this proposal he made on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA won't pass. No reason. Well, we've allowed the banks to take over absolutely everything and now Parliament. Best bet the bankers, the presidents of Mr. PBZ's bank, Mr. Prka's, who is, is he yet, I have no idea who everything is. ... For us Parliamentarians, he will be, perhaps even more loyal at one point when they are not given a sufficient margin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I don't understand why the MPs don't represent the people. It's not clear to me at all, we have the verdict that they were unfair interest, unilaterally determined, that the banks were doing what they wanted. And now at this point we do not allow one bill to go into another reading with all the remarks that fellow Alexic, who are reasonable, will respect. And in the second reading, of course, there will be a conversation with the government, with all the bodies, the Ministry of Finance. But that's not what Parliamentarians give, which is why I don't know. Here I am, very interested in how fellow Milosevic, on behalf of the national minorities, is considering this proposal. How in these areas where we come from we explain to a man that we're giving banks the money that belongs to him because the law says we have a verdict. I don't believe you have an explanation. I'm sorry they're not colleagues here from HDZ and other parties, that they left and they signed, I believe they'll back it up. I believe, most of them, that they will come all to the session who will vote, not to come just the number that will be enough by calculating, mathematically, just that Shacks formula in one calculation, in one vote calculated not to pass the law. Here's one more time as the MOST club said, we'll support this law in faith what's normal and that goes into another reading and I believe that other fellow parliamentary MPs will support, I believe if national minorities... Withholded, that they better come out then so that at least they won't be that tab on the scale that will exceed that this law doesn't go to another reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59737	I thank my colleague Bull for this debate. We have one replica. Dear fellow Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59738	Thank you, dear Vice President. Col. Bulj, it is the fact that the CNB dictates the Government of the Republic of Croatia's opinion and the CNB's opinion is dictated by banks. What the government wrote as an opinion on the law was exactly the same written by banks in a public debate. There's no difference. The problem is also military discipline in HDZ because the trio of the government that is constantly mentioned does not exist. Since the Parliament is subordinated to the government of the Republic of Croatia, that majority part. So there is no opinion and its position and legislative authority is essentially just an extended arm of the executive authority and it is actually not a legislative authority, the real legislative authority is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and whoever dictates the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this case what to do is the CNB and the CNB are dictated by the banks. It's shrewd and it's supporting crime. And so far, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ have considered me correct, but in the final presentation I will say some things and we could soon start with very incorrect relations. I won't mention what happened before, I don't care, but from the moment of the vote, I will mention everything that was at the moment of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59739	I thank my colleague Alexic. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59740	Fellow Alexic, I agree with you, this is parliamentary democracy and the people, our representatives in Parliament, from which the government comes, in fact we are the body that needs to be discussed mainly in these topics, life but also all the topics that come into order, all the laws, amendments of the law, the budget and, above all, what you have mentioned that the simple government has taken over and the legislative part because it simply has enough for it to secure a sufficient number of hands, is that 78, 79 less important, it is important to her that she has enough hands and no more debates. The point is, there's no one there when there's one law being discussed. And it's important when the vote comes that they raise their hands and they have enough numbers. I don't think that's good for democracy. I know that there should be a majority and minorities, but the parliament must not allow it, the President of the Parliament should not allow such pressure from the prime minister and around him of all people, that so much pressure should be on parliamentarians that they must vote exclusively by order. I think there's supposed to be a part of the freedom of Parliament's representatives but it's just plain 1/1 here, I think you have a verdict that says that banks are illegally working, i.e. They have interest, they work unilaterally on the damage of citizens, companies. So they're causing huge damages that can also affect demographics, meaning consequently, they're reducing the consumption of interest teams, debt slavery, only banks get these amounts that they naturally send to their countries from where they came from, where they came from, and of course they're probably investing in their own countries, and of course where the investment is, they're opening jobs, so with our money, our own people have to go to their countries to work because our money they're taking illegally. So this is a perfectly correct law, a proposal to amend the Consumer Credit Act, and I think that this should normally go into another reading and means another reading to find a solution. I believe that both HDZ and other representatives and, above all, the Government with you could find a correct language, but obviously they don't care because they're bank agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59741	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear fellow Professor Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I can't be surprised at this opportunity in the context of this proposal of this Consumer Credit Act that parliamentary deputies behave when they need to be signed in one way, so the proposal has received 78 signatures. And now when it's time to accept what's signed now they're not even going to listen, let alone support it until the end. Well, that's about duality, that's an ethical problem, and to be perfectly clear here you vote by task, here MPs are not free to have an opinion, this is about typical party behavior. Now, right now, let me say that the party Change Croatia strongly supports this proposal for a consumer credit law. I have struggled with the Franak Association and Mr. Alexic for the same thing for years, and this is actually part of a broader problem of the necessity of monetary reform because these phenomena in Croatian society are simply wound cancer, they are carcinogenic. So respected MPs and MPs, I will ask one question or one conclusion and say that Croatia is not actually free. It's hard for me to say and I don't like it. I don't want anyone to take this as one hard speech. Why? Why did I say that Croatia is not free? Well, over-indebted citizens can't be free by nature. A man who's over-indebted to the foundry is not a free man. So I'm going to paint another strong finding. I'm sorry, but I don't distinguish the occupation of the country by tanks from the occupation of capital. Both produce victims. They're currently dying of a bullet or a grenade, and these are long-term due to various illnesses. I'm not just gonna say strong words like this. I'm a scientist, but I'm also a politician. Here's some concrete data. From 2008 until today, it is only because of high unnecessary high interest rates, interest rates on my calculation that are unnecessaryly illegal, so it is not illegal because this interest rate is legal. About 30 billion kuna was taken, and about 40 billion kuna from the state. So I repeat, from 2008 to today. So about 70 billion kuna was sucked out. So why are we surprised that we are in such a desperate economic situation, that young people leave our country and see no perspective? So I'm ordering, respected citizens, we all earn our salaries in kunas. So who allowed the loans to be tied to the Swiss franc, to the euro and other currencies? Why? So I'm ordering you to be smart again, take credit only in kunas. Don't take any credit in another currency. That's why it's a currency clause, it's a poison for every country's monetary system and so is Croatian. And I repeat why? Because wages are in kunas, and liabilities are created in relation to another currency. So it is automatically seen that you are at risk and the National Bank had to protect the citizens and should not have allowed such practice. We have one fundamental problem. A little while ago, a colleague, Alexic, said there was no government trio, and I fully support it. Why? Because one kind of government and power has been imposed on all other forms, it is financial power and today it has become a financial power that governs political institutions such as the Government, the Parliament, the judiciary, etc. I'm sorry that one former minister left here because yesterday he testified that he had proposed a longtime governor for a second term. I won't mention names. But I'll get back to the profession. Why are banks using the currency clause? Vite under a) because the CNB of its draft, so let's just say the point in the last 20 years doesn't approve of kuna loans. You see, this is shocking what I'm saying, so I'm gonna repeat that the citizens hear for the second time. Banks approve loans with a currency clause because the CNB does not grant them kuna loans, and each normal Central Bank approves loans to banks in its currency so that they can approve citizens, businesses, etc. ( b) when did the banks see it, and how did they see it? Well, it was also an interest for their banks from abroad to export practically loans to Croatia and to sell loans here not with 10, 20% more than 4 to 10 times more and thus make extra profits that could never be achieved in their home countries. Why did they do that, say, in 2008, especially from now on? So because the Italian, Austrian and other banks in their home countries could borrow zero percent from the Central Bank in euro and then export these money to Croatia and place 6, 7, 8% and more and see where we, where the debt trap was created, increased external debt etc. In the end, capital was extracted from Croatia, poor society, the population of companies, and of course the state itself was celebrated. Why is there a mechanism like this? Why is he working? Well very simple, rationally. So not privatised banks in Croatia, they were not bought by foreigners to approve loans at interest rates as in their home countries. They came here to make money, I don't judge them. They're just using what this state and the CNB allowed them to do because she didn't accept to lend our banks in kuna on her own. So our citizens almost know nothing about it because what I'm saying seems shocking that our own central bank will not in its own domestic currency that it creates will not grant loans to banks that they can then grant loans to citizens, businesses. There can also be an interest rate as low as in Western countries because it is not, it is not money from abroad. So there's no risk of the country and that's what I want to stress. So when I speak this way, you see I speak argumentically because we in the Party Change Croatia do not want to use pulsism. Mr. Aleksic has stepped this law with so many arguments and has put forth a great deal of effort in talks with experts, with people who have been damaged. It's very correct this bill and you can see that resistance has been created here. You can criticize everything in this country, call everyone responsible but you can't call financial capital and you can't specifically call CNB to account. That's not allowed, it's a forbidden topic for the ruling majority. What else do you say about this subject? It is clear from everything that monetary reform must be implemented, this kind of anti-legislative behaviour must be sanctioned. Well, not only that, the verdicts in favour of clients have been shown, but the judiciary is not sanctioned, it is not implemented. It says that this is banana land, that this is a colony because in colonies you can do whatever you want. So in this context, we know what we're doing, we need to focus more on the sovereign monetary policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59743	Dear colleague Lovrinović, I would like to ask you to use the terms in the Croatian Parliament that are appropriate. This is the Republic of Croatia, this is not a banana country, and as far as I know, you are not a parliamentary representative of banana countries, but a parliamentary representative of the Croatian Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. I would so kindly ask you to use a dictionary that is acceptable in the Croatian Parliament in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59744	Mr. President, of course I can't pollemize about this right now. It's neither the time nor the place. If you had an hour to talk about these things you'd agree, I don't use, I'm using this term picturesquely, not to call the state a banana, but to appear to call it that and it's quite clear what I meant. So you don't get the wrong impression. And I'm gonna get this over with. All central banks in the EU were in growth and development function, low interest rates, favourable employment loans, for growth and economic development other than the CNB, it is the biggest problem of the country, it is neither Croatia nor the national or bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59745	Thank you very much, fellow Lovrinović. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59746	Thank you, dear Vice President. I would refer only to the fact that 78 MPs and MPs supported the bill. I understand that part of the MPs who supported the bill is part of the government. I understand that they have certain obligations under that authority but they have no obligation to support the government in relation to this law. They don't have that obligation. When accessing authorities has an obligation to support what the government proposes. In this case, the government doesn't suggest anything. So in this case, all MPs and MPs who are in power are not obliged to support the Government's proposal not to accept this but are obliged to be part of the legislative authority and the Croatian Parliament is a legislative body. They are obliged to assess whether this proposal is in accordance with the law, in accordance with the judgments, in accordance with the rule of law, and then they are obliged to decide on this and not on what the ruling HDZ wants. Because HDZ was willing to support this law, but provided I become part of the ruling majority. I didn't agree to that store, we kept talking, later we got it in writing to accept it, but here's the practice showing otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59747	Thank you, dear fellow Alexic. My colleague Lovrinović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59748	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of Alexic's. I think this last thought of yours about trade, trying to trade, the address to the store said it all. So it shows here that you can go through all that if something is ripped off, if you change your moral attitude, if you change what, the program that you've been chosen to do in front of the citizens, on the basis of which you've been supported by the citizens. So this is rewarded rather than a good proposal, not a bill and a bill that would help thousands or hundreds of thousands of citizens as it is in this case. I congratulate you for standing up like this. This country will never get out of crisis, and that's when I'm gonna end up being led by the people who brought her into crisis. It's a shame there's a number of people sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59749	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply to the replica. I'm closing the debate. To vote...... You didn't sign up, Mr. Alexic. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: You haven't answered.]] Yes, as far as I know, you have to sign up for the closing statement. .../The intruder can't be heard. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Mr. Alexic, you have to sign up for every debate. For the final debate, you should at least raise your hand and say it, but since it's Friday, here's the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59750	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the parameters set by the banks at one point are determined on the basis of the increased interest rates declared by the court illegal in the collective judgment. Therefore, at the end of 2013, the banks took an existing interest rate which was increased from baseline and based on these increased interest rates established the parameters for the change in interest rate. And that is why such a way of doing so is illegal and is against both the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the fact that the banks treated the debtors in such a way, the change in interest rates was unlawfully defined by them, they also treated the entrepreneurs illegally, but not in the sense that they had unlawfully negotiated interest rates, but instead they would have agreed the interest rates in a legitimate manner and then, at a time when that was not appropriate to them, because their fixed margin was too low, they would have increased the fixed interest margin voluntarily by their decision. Therefore, in contracts that were properly signed and correctly agreed, they were also acting unlawfully because at that time they were not in a low interest rate. Such similar things were done in both Austria and Spain, but there they did not reduce the interest rate after Euribor reached zero. And then when he went to minus they would no longer reduce the interest rate. However, the EU court said, as the interest rate has been agreed, it must be applied in such a way. What happens if this law is passed? If this law is adopted, interest rates will be reduced in all loans that are existing and agreed before 31. 12. 2012 for one to 3% points. It's going to shrink by 5% to 20%. No kuna of money will be returned to anyone, so this law does not repay any overpaid interest. They only shrink and are brought into legal frameworks. We were talking here about the government's trinity that this law is an attack on the government's trinity. No, on the contrary, I said there are court rulings in which the debtors have asked that the court regulate the parameters and the judge explicitly says that he judges the prepaid interest that was sought, states that the change in interest was illegal, but as a third says I am not an arbitration officer and I have no right to regulate the interest rate, this right has a legislative authority. That's right, if the court had arbitration then he would have actually intervened in legislative power. On the contrary, the legislative authority has a duty to react and regulate what is illegal. On the government's opinions, the government had the exact same opinion on the bill as the banks at the public hearing. That confirms what I'm saying. The CNB dictates what the government will say, and the CNB dictates what banks will say. The banks dictate to the CNB the CNB dictates to the government. And in the end, we have the exact same opinion of the CNB and the government and the banks. Isn't that interesting? No, what I'm being respected for is that I haven't done an impact assessment of the rules. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the legislator who proposes the law is not obliged to carry out an impact assessment of the regulations. I am honored that I did not ask for the opinion of the European Central Bank. Also, a representative is not obliged to do so. Retroactivity. I said, I'm ready not to be a retroactive law. However, I have been so collegiate to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that I have asked the Office of Law to give me instructions on how to do the impact assessment of the regulations. I did it a few months ago, the answer I didn't get, I sent an ambulance, answers again I didn't get. So the Office of the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia incorrectly doesn't want to answer my question. The government respects me and then it is incorrect and does not want to answer my question about how to do something that I am not obliged to do at all by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but I am willing to do. So I said, I'm willing to do everything the government asks me to do between the two readings to agree on that problem. However, I do not believe it will be possible by all accounts. I'm coming to the HDZ letter now. HDZ received an inquiry from the Franak Association before local elections to address the problem of illegal margins. And that answer should have arrived at the Franak Association before the local elections. He did not arrive, but Prime Minister Plenkovic told the camera that the response would be sent later and that it would be of quality and that response was sent in July this year. And now I'm not going to talk about reading the most important part of that HDZ response, see, this is what HDZ sent to the Franak Association, signed by Mr Jandrokovic. In this response, where a solution to the interest margins of the HDZ is sought, we are certainly committed to supplementing the Consumer Credit Act during 2017 in such a way as to establish a methodology based on the basis of which a fixed part of the interest rate will be determined. In this respect, it will be necessary to lay down in the law a provision whereby credit institutions would have a fixed period of time during which they will have an obligation with the debtor, to negotiate the parameters according to which the interest is applicable or to apply the methodology set out in the law. The methodology laid down in the Law would also apply to valid credit agreements but would not have a retroactive effect but would act pro futuro, which is in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court so far. In this way, the Constitutional Court has expressed its position not to address the question of a variable interest rate in previously concluded credit agreements but only to specify the already existing principles and provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, such as certain practices, the equality of the parties, the equality of mutual practices, awareness and honesty, the prohibition of significant imbalances in the rights and obligations of the parties and others. Even if the case in question were to be interpreted as re-application, such treatment is permitted in accordance with Article 90. The Republic of Croatia's constitution when it comes to the particularly justified reasons that there are certainly HDZs. This position was also expressed by the Ministry of Finance at the 17th Thematic Session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, together with the Committee on the Justice of the Croatian Parliament, held on 5 April 2017, on the subject of doubt in the illegal way of changing interest rates in loans agreed by credit institutions with consumers before 1 January 2013, with a view to determining interest rates in converted CHF loans. Dear colleagues and colleagues, HDZ has repeatedly sent its letters to Franak, where it has made it clear that it will solve the problem and I think this is the last letter signed by the president of the parliament but in the post of HDZ. Repeatedly, the problem will be solved, the way it will be solved, and it says that even retroactive action is possible. But I said, I'm ready not to be retroactive. So it's probably your slogan, then be credible and finally prevent banks from their crime. 78 MPs and MPs supported the law with their signature, and I call on them to support it by voting. This law will not be passed this time, so he only needs to enter the second round and agree between the two readings with the Government of the Republic of Croatia everything that is incompatible and, if necessary, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can carry out all those actions that I do not have to carry out as a representative. I therefore call on both the HDZ and you MPs and the MPs that you have supported and you are part of the ruling majority and the opposition to support this law. And I certainly call upon the opposition to come in full numbers. And I have to say, this isn't easy for me to say but colleagues and colleagues from HDZ who are very little here right now but I'm talking to all of you and who aren't there, because you'll hear it, you'll probably hear it through social networks or whatever, I'm being correct all the time, I'm not calling you, I'm voting for all your proposals that are okay with me, I'm restrained in cases where you're responsible. For example, the state budget is responsible for the state budget, and it is normal for me to be restrained here. And the whole opposition should not even be against it but should be restrained when it comes to the budget because the budget corresponds to the government and should be allowed to then be accountable for the budget. So I've been correct all along, I've been communicating a lot with you, and I've been communicating with Minister Marić a lot. And he can always be dissatisfied and say so we're talking to you. We're talking, but there's no solution. Then when I tell him but HDZ supports that solution, he says I'm not HDZ. And so we're always spinning around in circles and I'm biting myself by the tail. So I have to say the next sentence or a few sentences that you're not going to like right now. I haven't called you for the past, and in the future I won't call you for the past, I won't call anyone for the past, but unless you give the green light for the second round of this law in the future I will call you to support the crime of Croatian banks. I'll call you publicly, I'll call you in this assembly, I'll call you in the halls. If you do not support this law, you support the crime of Croatian banks along with the Croatian National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59751	I thank my colleague Alexic. We have two replicas, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59752	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, I see that, first of all, you spoke argumentably, after that and emotionally because there is nothing left for a man in a situation like this when he becomes disappointed about a situation like this. But the last thing you said with a sharper tone, I was looking at the left side, members of the HDZ began to shake with fear. Obviously, I must say, as soon as you reached out to this document, in a letter from the HDZ, that you obviously did it in extreme need. And I'm surprised they promised you everything, which they wrote to you just to eventually win the election favors and members of the Franak Association. It's not gonna happen. You may have been a little naive in that, expecting that they would help and that they would be credible, that they would remain there. I would remind you of an old folk that the wolf's hair changes but the plague never does. Croatia will never get out of the crisis as it is led by the people who brought it into crisis. And that's why citizens need to open their eyes to see, like in this case, who's fighting for their interests, to solve their essential problems, not ideological approach, not this, not that. We have real problems here people, and here we see, unfortunately again, you used everything, we support you, but obviously there are stronger reasons, and I said in my discussion that this Parliament and these representatives who are in power, they are subordinated to the interests of financial authorities, citizens need to know that, and we need to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59753	Thanks to Mr. Lovrinović, answer from fellow Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59754	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Lovrinovic, the people in HDZ are the same as we are, there's no difference. There are few people who are able when they come to power to have an opinion, unfortunately too little. Many of the MPs were also in the trench, and our Vice President Parliament is a famous warrior, people appreciate it. I know they appreciate him, everyone says he was the first, he wasn't hiding and he was helping his fellow soldiers, and everybody's priced him, everyone I talked to him. At this point, a different war is being waged, there is a war against lawlessness, and apparently there is no need for courage, but in fact, it takes enormous courage to say no to those who force me to vote against something that is for Croatian citizens, which is right for the rule, which is for the modern state. And so I call on all those braves among HDZ members because I know that there are, I know that there are, because some have promised to give me support despite being told above that they will not, that they do not support me, so I call on all those brave ones to think and, if necessary, I can further explain to them what the problem is and I call on them to help this law enter the second round.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59755	I thank my colleague Alexic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Brano Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59756	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Alexic's, you mention the pages and the number of representatives. On this side where you're sitting I don't see a lot of MPs, you're calling the other side, why are you doing it? You may find yourself even stronger into ideological political spheres than those of the group you represent here in the Croatian Parliament. You've been manipulating the public for a long time. You remember when you came to ask for a signature, what did my colleague Dodig and I tell you? We'll sign you so you can put the law in the process, let it be discussed but that doesn't mean at any point that we'll support that law, remember that? Please remember that because we told you so and don't manipulate people's names anymore. It won't occur to me to sign something for you because you've brought out so many lies, insinuations about this time behind us that it's a miracle. But you didn't come to our club once, you asked for a meeting with us to sit down again and talk about whether we'd back it up, did you? Did you ask for that at all? You're not. I'm really asking you to stop insinuating because this is how you get the impression of us who know the truth that you have no intention at all of adopting this law but that you are only doing it to raise one of your political ratings. That's how it works out. I'm asking you nicely to stop barbarking the names of people who have been friendly, correct, collegiately signed that this can be debated at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59757	I thank my colleagues, Hrga. Answer, colleague Alexic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59758	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Hrg, it's such a stage performance of yours, which is fine, you have the right to it, you're a representative but it's simply not true. I've had enough signatures without you, so you signed it to show how you're with the people. Please tell him not to talk. [[Intruder Hrg: It's not like that, so don't lie.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59759	Dear colleague Hrg, I ask you not to interrupt your colleague Alexic as he responds to your replica and I would ask you not to use such words in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59760	So, the fact is that you like to seem to be with the people, in fact, you love it, but by voting the moment you vote you will show whether you are with the people or not you are with the people. And you don't have to apologize to anyone, say, I can't, I'm part of the ruling government and I can't. I'm part of the ruling, and I can't do anything wrong. I'm not a manipulator, what I'm saying are arguments absolutely everything, all arguments. I'm always telling the arguments, the facts, I'm not talking from my stomach, I'm talking about what I know that is and I would advise you that if you don't understand exactly what this is about, we can talk one more time to explain exactly what it is that you don't understand. And after all these years as far as I'm concerned, after all the presentations in the Croatian Parliament, I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59761	Dear fellow Alexic, I would ask you not to disrespect your responses to fellow parliamentary representatives and do not insinuate certain character traits of any of the MPs or MPs, thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59762	This Regulation shall enter So, fellow Alexic was now using a reply to a replica in which he did not respond to what I was saying in the replica and did not say if it was true what I said, and the truth was, but took advantage of the opportunity to respond to the replicas so that he would insult me as I do not understand what he suggested in the law. I understand that very well, colleague Alexic, and I ask you not to insult us, you have already insulted us enough by making false statements, stop making false statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59763	I thank my colleague Hrg, I think I've already responded to Mr. Alexic's exposure before, so I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this item on the agenda, thanks again to Mr. Goran Aleksic, for the reasons of this law. And I'm asking you to sign up next time for the closing statement. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59764	Let's now go to the last point on which we are voting on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Credit Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 166. The promoter is a representative of Goran Aleksic. The debate is closed. A colleague, Alexic, gave up his notice of a name vote, so here I am giving him my word now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59765	Here I said I quit. Thank you, Your Honor. Since the team that should vote on my side is greatly weakened, there is no point in burdening you all with individual voting, but I call on MPs and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community to keep the promise made to the French Association in July this year when they promised to support the methodology for defining the methodology for determining the parameters at interest rates, in loans where these parameters are not agreed, so I call on them to be credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59766	We're going to vote. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act is not adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 70 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 39 against the conclusion reached in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies. We're done with the vote. We continue tomorrow with work at 9.30 p.m. to discuss the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, second reading, P.Z. No. 215. Thank you, everyone. Session interrupted at 18.35 hours. Now, before we vote on a proposal for candidates for the election of guardians for children, given that the vote is secret and we will have to make one interruption have another point of choice, appointment and resolution, so ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, Ante Sanader, to explain the proposal for a decision. Tell your colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59768	Mr. President, we'd like to take a break after this point, and before the covert vote on the D.A., we'd like you to have a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59769	That's okay, but let's finish this off then.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59770	The President shall be the President of the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for Selection and Designation, are proposed to be dismissed as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament Orsat Milenić, and Dr Vesna Pusic is proposed as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59771	If you agree with your colleagues and colleagues, Comrade Sanader, he can present all the points, so we can vote together, only if someone has an objection to one of these, then we'll take it separately. Is that okay? It is. Thank you. Then please present everyone, so I'll open the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59772	It is proposed to be dismissed as a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, while Vlaho Orepić is proposed as a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed to be resolved for a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Anka Mrak Taritas, and Dr Vesna Pusic is proposed for a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. Anka Mrak Taritas is proposed as a member of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed to be resolved as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly of Doctor Sinisha Hajdaša Dončić, and a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Dr Marija Alfirev. As a member of the Information Information Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Zvonimir Čičak is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59773	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. If no one hears from you, I'll discuss it immediately, and I'll close it, and then I'll ask you to vote on all of these proposals together, so let's join the vote. I find that the majority of the votes, 113 for and 3 abstentions, have been made as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59774	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Croatian National Bank Act, first reading, P.Z., No. 194. The proposal is a Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, on the basis of Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, relating to the first reading of the law, shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on State Budget Finance. The government has delivered its opinion. In has a proposing, respected colleague Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59775	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, here we are now about 10th to discuss that attempt to find agreement on the law, which is also the HDZ, then ruling where we were partners, in some way approved, went into procedure and that law itself stopped the moment the partners in the government were no longer the same. At that time, the government's response to the proposal for this law was that it did not agree with, well, that it had not received an opinion from the European Central Bank. We have also now received the opinion of the Croatian Government on the repeated proposal, which states that the proposal did not take full account of the opinion of the European Central Bank of 28.10.2016. So here, just a little bit, I'm going to go back to what my colleague Alexic said, so it's not, if I had to think about it, let's try it again, because there were significant changes between the two readings. Therefore, he had opinions on the first reading, which was given this second on the first proposal in 2016, the government that is mandatory did not even refer this to the procedure. However, I still believe that with one quality consensus, we can certainly achieve, a minimum agreement on the model for the State Audit Office to enter the CNB, an analysis of the business in that part of its regular activity. Which does not affect the right to independence, decision-making, monetary financial policy. We can say here, there are certain objections against that. However, here we are looking to be constructively relocate what is certainly acceptable, with the many fences that we put in our proposal, we are trying to be as concrete as possible, as transparent as possible, to actually see the real intention, which is control, day-to-day business, that is to prevent sustainability, certain people who can ultimately stay forever in the bank itself. We want to clear a little bit of the wind and that system, so that in the end, everything we answer to the voters who choose us, as well as the ministers who are confirmed in this House, that one part, certainly, and responsibility, for the state we have, is also submitted to the CNB. Eyewitnesses around Agrokor, we see now that the CNB and confirms, yes, we knew, but within what was our activity, we couldn't react, I would say, if they hadn't responded enough, they didn't warn. And certainly one, that in the occurrence of certain actions, which interfere with the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia, they could, or the financial system and financially, have been able to propose a number of ways of a certain change. What we can say here, that all EU countries have certain mechanisms. Some are closer to this to ours, where we absolutely don't get into business in any part, while some have significant control mechanisms. We can say that our CNB has a large, high level of independence, but as far as transparency is concerned, it's here among the worst. If experts are putting us among Albania, BiH, Macedonia, Malta and Slovenia, then we should ask ourselves, what is our job. It is certainly a task to propose certain amendments and additions to the HNB Act, which we are delivering this way. We ask this proposal to supplement Article 62 of the current law and to enable the State Audit Office to carry out performance audits with and further possibility of carrying out this task by independent external auditors. Just when we mention independent external auditors and a whole set of crisises around Agrokor, he has just relied on decisions, on actions, on independent external audits, means an audit that should have confirmed that the work of the Agrokor administration is within the laws of the envisaged limits. Only after an extraordinary audit procedure has it been found that there have been significant actions. Because the fact is, those who pay you, you deliver an independent report to them. Which in itself is contradictory. And given the degree of morality that we have, we see that it is simply very difficult to implement. This proposal, however, wants this scope of control to be clearly established, that even without any influence on interrogations and independent means would not enter their territory. However, in order to do so, it must be possible for the State Audit Office to have the power to carry out the audit. So it's not enough just this law but we had the same thing in that if someone remembers a year ago that there was a position of the Ministry of Finance that they would also allow for the purposes of amending the Law on the State Office for Auditing and giving them the authority to supervise. For the sake of greater transparency, we have complemented the CNB's reporting and we propose to publish to the Croatian Assembly also half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy as well as the annual report on its work and business. Of course, if we were to discuss this here, the Croatian public would discuss it. Taking the stand of this house would actually show how right that direction is, if we're not just political functions here. Sometimes our colleagues may be influenced by their own parties and those who have their own position put into the background of party interests, but the fact that we are elected by the Croatian people and on behalf of them all of these legal proposals, we get all the reports on our tables, we need to read, discuss them and make conclusions and, of course, communicate with the citizens who chose us. Nevertheless, we understand both the obligations we have towards the European Central Bank and the conclusions of these discussions should in some way be one general direction in society. We know that the governors and governors of the CNB listen to how financial flows, monetary movements, and would also listen to our views, and therefore probably have more quality insight into the effects of the work of the CNB. In order not to have permanent governors, we propose that members of the CNB's council limit the mandates to no more than two of which each would take six years to ensure that we do not violate the right that may be controversial to those who have current mandates, they could continue to finish the current mandate properly, and to vote if they are confirmed next, as well as others, if they are doing their job in accordance with the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Here is also after the debate on the parliamentary committee I think there is a good intention and we as the promoter of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists and ruling clubs so that a certain consensus can be found here, find some compromise proposals and that we have at least one step forward in a certain change that could improve the situation that I have stated in this presentation. Here we are again, as with fellow Alexic, with this proposal in the first reading of the indicators of voting that will probably be next week, but this will show whether there is any real interest in discussing such changes or any similar changes at all. So it's not that we're rigid, that we're ultimate but we're making a proposal, we're adapting and we're looking for only one cooperation in which we could clearly all show together that we want one of the pillars of this country to have a slightly greater responsibility to all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I propose to the esteemed deputies and MPs to support this bill, to make proposals constructively available in their discussions. I also propose to the Ministry of Finance that we sit at the table, once again pass to determine where there may be differences in some positions, to try if I consider it safe, to find a touch point between this proposal and what is acceptable in the Croatian government at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59776	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for this explanation of the bill. We have a few replicas. A true replica of a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59777	Thank you, dear Vice President. A colleague of Panenić, a revision of the CNB at least we should prescribe, it is the least, minimum, minimum. What should be further is even one civil oversight of the CNB, it's our bank. I mean, what kind of a mystic institution is it, which is some kind of I don't know where to put them really, like they're some fortress outside of the category. What are they, some kind of Mordor with a ring master on his forehead? I really don't know. I don't understand why we're so afraid to introduce this much revision to the CNB. So review, citizen control here we see that the CNB is the main culprit for the illegal conduct of Croatian banks, therefore I support your proposal and I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59778	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic. Answer, dear fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59779	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Alexic. I, as Minister of Economy, was then under supervision and the public not only audits, the revision that comes but of course also the public, so it questioned every daily that they paid for, who was traveling, how much it was spent, how many representations, how many contracts were signed, bagatile purchases directly, all of which, of course, creates one greater responsibility and me who was then in charge of running the ministry and on the other hand we have the CNB that numerous inscriptions are calling out that there are indications of huge costs of ineffectiveness in the management of funds that they have as an institution. I'm asking myself, are they really above us? It seems that they are, and above us sitting here in the Parliament, we should be the key but we see that in this work all the efforts here are, and with your suggestions, we are not going through. What is the power of our governor? Is it really so much that it can condition that there is not enough political will to make key changes? Is it possible to detect certain actions that would be truly and publicly accepted as something that is unrepeated? Here's what we're doing right now, and at Pishkornica, how much is about one payment when a man alone pays millions, what's going on? Of course the public gets upset because they're looking through. And we look through ourselves if the state audit controls us, from the lowest to the highest level, there seems to be another specific level where the State Audit is unfortunately not allowed in yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59780	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59781	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic, you have listed three important things, I think. First, we have seen in the last case around Agrokor, CNB or its leadership deny any responsibility that has arisen regarding the case. Although according to what we can read from their report, they are obliged to monitor the credit risk or risk of all credit institutions, all risks that can arise. And that's why I don't understand, you try to explain the same thing to me if you can, how is it possible if you have to monitor that they say we're not responsible, we haven't noticed anything? The second thing about the report here in Parliament, one year if the report comes, we can discuss it, but we can't take any stance. And it's a good thing we're proposing this legal solution to give half-years to the financial situation in the Republic of Croatia. Why does it matter? And I asked that question at the time and the governor of the CNB when he came here where I told him scenicly, according to his report, me and Peja Grbin were very tall people, very tall people, so there was about a report on price stability in the Republic of Croatia. On the one hand, if the yachts get a little cheap, on the other hand, if the bread collects, we'll have stable prices. That is not so, this report should be much more precise and therefore it is good that if it came here twice a year to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59782	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. The answer of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59783	The esteemed colleague, Žagar, of course by following up certain reports that come, we see that actually that the pillars of society that are independent always come under some question. The arbitration ruling itself, which was recently published, shows that the third party, the outside party that is not from Croatia, is seriously questioning institutions that should be an independent, state-run judicial authority that should actually be more self-responsible than we are, but it seems to me that this part is missing, self-proportion. Unfortunately, there's a lot of work going on here with certain allegations, but as we've already learned, a little bit of always something comes out and questions about when this system is going to collapse. And then maybe the government's intention to set up a euro-based monetary system, because if there is a crisis in the Central Bank, then it will rock a number of expectations in some realisation. Therefore, the interest is both of us as proponents and rulings to establish control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59784	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59785	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Panenic. We've already had one of these debates here practically on the same bill, then colleagues from HDZ because we had that agreement that it would be voted on, they didn't discuss it too much, we expected support. The colleagues of the SDP supported the bill and it was in those turbulent times when Mr Petrov was, so these were the last days of his presidency of this Parliament, and it was the bill of law and he was rejected, not unfortunately supported by the HDZ colleagues despite our speech, and often there is talk of some collegiation or I do not know responsibility, and on the other hand they did not support him or colleagues from the SDP and the law is very important. Can't one institution like you said, be above everyone, can't happen that we can't get into the State Audit, we've seen what these private audits were like in Agrokor. So the audit you're paying for yourself. Also, the CNB itself pays for these audits that are now coming to the CNB and we are asking that the State Audit enters the CNB to determine the real situation, to see what the relationship between CNB leaders towards the money they manage, I see nothing wrong, there is no threat to any independence of the CNB, and I don't know why it's not supported, who is being protected, who is being protected by these structures and we see that these structures in the CNB, this has shown yesterday's testimony, been linked to politics. that they were even part of one of Ivica Todorovic's political projects involving Tomislav Karamarko, Milan Kujundzic, our vice president who is sitting here, Darinko Kosor, they were all part of the political project Ivica Todorovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59786	In your replica, you have brought forth many false facts and many facts that do not correspond to the truth as far as I'm concerned. I would ask you not to use the Institute of Replica for abuse in a substantive sense of replication. Answer to the replica, dear fellow Panenic, please. First I gave my word to Mr Panenic, and then you'll get it. ... Behind the answer. [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go, fellow Panenic. ... Mr. Grmoya, please watch your back when you're rising. [[I'm not sure what you're talking about.]] Mr. Panenich, will you answer? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59787	Mr. Chairman, I don't know why you intervened. I was fully in line with what we're talking about here, about entering an audit at the CNB. If something hurt you, what I said isn't me, it's not my word, it's what the press wrote about. That you were part of the circle around Ivica Todorovic and that there were entrepreneurs who were still involved, means from the Association “The Ring”. That's not what I made up. That's what the media wrote about. If that, you deny those media, send some kind of a statement, say it's not true, and here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59788	Mr. Grumoya, you have re-abused the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He doesn't know where you read it or who said it, but good. You're moving on in your own style. We're moving on, and you stay here in your bewitched world. We're moving on. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59789	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Panenic, you said in your statement that this bill is not something of an exemplar in the world of European audit in national banks, that in most European banks there is actually a revision and that is one of the reasons why it should be brought. So it's nothing unusual. We are not looking for something that does not exist but in the European world. And you also pointed out that it was a very bad impression, a public impression of the CNB and the heads of the CNB, and probably that law, therefore, would in some way improve this status of leader. And then it's not clear to me, for example, that I'm the head of some institution where citizens are constantly criticizing and the media for intransparency I'd say let the review go in, let it be established where I was wrong and there wouldn't be any problem. So this attitude and the CNB and the ruling majority reflect that there is something they want to hide. So I have no other reason. So if this CNB status is already poor in the public, then it will improve it with such a law that the revision will enter the CNB. So I have no other reason than to think that they're hiding something in all of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59790	I thank my colleague, Sladolev. My colleague Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59791	Well, here's what I can do with my colleague, Sladolev. Actually, I can move on to it. If there is an official state audit in other countries that enters their central banks, then I ask what they are looking at if what is mentioned here is not acceptable. Then what are they watching over there? They're probably just standing at the door watching who's coming in, who's coming out. If we propose only business costs not entering monetary or some other form of independence, then I don't actually know in those other countries what the audit is doing. How much I have information that what we've suggested is an integral part of the job, and even in some and much more what is their task. But sometimes we get too tired of all these European Commission institutions. Yesterday I heard a good comment that here is not to say here, I wouldn't apply it here. But that's, let's sometimes bring something. So if the European Commission doesn't like it, let them comment on it, and after a while we'll adjust and change. But it's been two years, and in those two years, something can change very well. Let me put it this way, if we put a non-binding opinion like, we accept it as binding that they here and these certain provisions that we have don't even question at all. Then I ask you what, if most of you have any objection to this, you wouldn't make a certain amendment, accept that amendment, and let's adopt that part, let's start with something, let's not stay absolutely anything is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59792	I thank Mr Panenic for his reply to the replica. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59793	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are discussing means before you is the proposal of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank. I'm sorry we have very few representatives ahead of us. We see from the left, i.e. SDP one, HDZ two and Mr. Vice President behind me is here on official duty. We see from Living Wall one. Only representatives of the Most Club. I believe that the seriousness of this law, which shows its goal of allowing the State Audit to enter the CNB and not only because of the intransparent spending of money and bad business, but that we all once learn exactly what the CNB is doing, given that every key problem that happens in this country that we are aware of in recent days is not really the responsibility of the CNB. In this respect, it is necessary to carry out an audit by the State Audit Office on a non-political, independent and fully professional basis. The following is proposed to supplement the CNB Act in a way that determines how the State Audit Office will carry out an audit of the business of the CNB in accordance with the regulations governing the way of operation of the State Audit Office and the provisions of the CNB Act, in which the CNB Act itself will be the precise scope and objectives of the audit. And we rightly have the right to request, as a national representative, that the State Audit as well as other institutions enter the CNB to see where this money is spent once. Well, we read about... fish 300 thousand kuna, half a million kuna for quality wine, for red wallpaper, and of course it's better to enter the State Audit into the National Bank and that's fairer, fairer. It is not a interference in monetary policy, it is not an influence when this law was first proposed by the representatives of the Most, so European officials' reactions to Croatia, this is the CNB at least called. And this law will at least confirm that it is the CNB, that the Croatian Parliament has the right and the national representatives to know what is done in the CNB as well as in other institutions that are subject to the state audit, no more. However, there are huge objections, much more important as former Governor Rohatinski said yesterday that political options build lists, political options, political groups, Karamarko, Kujundzic, Maric, the current minister or Mr Brkic cited him as saying they were building new political options within the CNB and thus pressing the governor. It's political pressure, it's a thought in monetary policy when you ask man and you press him to be prime minister and it's done then, it's a man admitted yesterday and he talked about it at the Committee on Agrokor who has here and confirmed his founding and need for the CNB to be a direct political influence, a direct, you will confirm that if you, Mr. Bacic, told it publicly to all the media on the request of my colleague Nikola Grumoje where they were doing the list literally, a new political option along with Mr. Todorovic. Now that's an influence. This is not the influence of what the MPs need to know, and that's the amendment to the law we're looking for. Perhaps it doesn't suit you, colleague Bačić and HZD, that in this way we parliamentary representatives find out the truth only about business. We don't know what the salary is to the governor, how much bigger than the President of the Republic we hear is much bigger, the way the reception is a contest within the CNB and personally I won't enter here into all the indisputables and illegalities if we need to know. I personally raised criminal charges against the CNB, but that's another thing, that's what allowed Agrokor to use the bonds without a 10 billion kuna which was a disastrous impact on the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia and monetary policy, even this does not get into monetary policy. This is one normal revision of an institution to see the business, way of business and nothing more and nothing less, and the name of the CNB only says that the Croatian Parliament would be that body that would have to decide i.e. which should receive this State Audit report as other institutions. However, we create the Pharaohs who paid for travel across Europe, travel across Europe paid for by foreign banks, which is why Governor Vujcic was in conflict of interest. We made it possible for them to be a state in the state, but then this Parliament doesn't make sense if we can't in the CNB or any institution have if there's no State Audit Office to conduct on a non-political, independent, completely professional basis an audit and that every year we have parliamentary representatives. This is the transparency of the work of the CNB and would contribute to the fact that the report on the audit carried out by the CNB would be made public, so it would be more transparent, more publicly, not meddling again in monetary policy. This clearly sets out the framework for the implementation of the audit by the State Audit Office would not in any way interfere with the independence of the work of the CNB. These amendments to the CNB Act do not enter the independence of the CNB, nor do they affect a bit. Nor is this law going to the governor to be prime minister, to investigate the rating that neither Todorovic nor Karamarko or Kujundzic or anyone or the ring, or I don't know who the association is, but simply this law does not affect the governor politically on the CNB, but in this way it is only required to do the same as in the other institutions of the Republic of Croatia. And we Parliamentarians are getting reports from the audit for the other institutions that the state audit is carrying out. Furthermore,... the transparency of the work of the CNB is proposed to submit the obligations of the CNB to the Croatian Parliament annually for half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy as well as the annual report on its work and business, and without any way touching the independence of the CNB's work We are only looking for reports that we are here to the public, and also to the people that this report is not in breach of their independence, so we are not breaking the law. It is also proposed to amend Article 80. The CNB Act governing the duration of the term of office of the members of the CNB Council in such a way as to ensure that members of the CNB Council, with a recognised personal reputation and professional experience in monetary, financial and legal matters, can, for the most part, be members of the CNB Council within two mandates each of which takes six years. The Independent Lists' Representatives' Club will ask for an individual vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the vote is a single vote, that is our right and let the public see that whoever wants the transparency of the work of the CNB of an institution that was and had to work in the interests of Croatian citizens, and certainly not the banking lobbys, in any way, in a way that banks have, in particular, too much influence on the governor and others. And of course, once again, I will mention, by this law, we do not touch ourselves as a body, legislatively, at no time, independence in the conduct of monetary policy, but we are looking for reports, we are looking for evidence, we are asking that the State Office for Audit, that we report to us and see business. And that at last, the cover, the cover, all the misunderstandings, finally come out. I expect mainly from MPs and MPs and SDP and HDZ that they will support and go to second reading and that finally the CNB will not be a state in the state, but be an institution, which will have the same obligations and responsibilities towards the Croatian Parliament, as well as other institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59794	I thank Mr. Bull. My colleague Bulj, as well as your predecessors, you are again false, but I will tell you in front of the entire Croatian public, so you know, they say that man is held by the word of the ox for horns. Since you are inducing and making the lies, I personally say that at one time I met with Mr. Todorovic and Mr. Rohatinski, I am here looking at you in teaching, saying that I have never met, nor have I sat with them, nor have I been drinking coffee. And if you two investigators prove otherwise, I am in front of the entire Croatian public, I give my word that I am leaving politics. And you continue in your tone, and each of us speaks for himself in his own actions and in his own words. We have replicas, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59795	Dear fellow Bulj means absolutely, this state audit we're asking to join the CNB is not an involvement in the independence of the CNB and we've repeated that on the eve of the occasion. What we ask of the CNB is nothing more than what we ask of all other institutions. I also cited the example of Agrokor, where these private audit houses have shown how they can be anointed, to carry out these audits, in a way that corresponds to the owner of the concert. Ha, it doesn't have to be that case in the CNB, but there's a possibility that it's happening too. For this reason, we're asking for the State Audit to enter the CNB. And you're absolutely right, that those who didn't want to support our proposal, you tried politically to influence Governor HNB, he admitted it to testify before the Parliament's Investigative Commission, forced you to enter politics. What you and I are talking about and what is being denied here by the chairman, written by journalist Željko Ivankovic, he argues that in the first round, these allegations, Rohatinski was, Darinko Kosor and Marijan Hanžekovic, the owner of the EPH, that a famous analyst Puhovski was coming to the meetings, and that in the second round Tomislav Karamarko, Milan Kujundzic, means the current health minister and Vaso Brkic and his close circle of entrepreneurs who supported the idea. So Mr. Brkic, then deny what a journalist who has seriously followed the situation around Agrokor and about Ivica Todorovic writes. After all, you were a close associate of Tomislav Karamark, so no wonder that you were together in HDZ so you took on key roles, no wonder, that you were then connected a few months ago. So here you can deny it, but that's how the press writes it. It's a political influence on the governor and on the CNB. And this shows that Ivica Todorovic, media circles, part of politicians, was involved in turning governor, and that means creating the governor of a political project. That's what's dangerous, and it shows that politicians, not politicians, have created tycoons and a political scene for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59796	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy. You've exceeded 35 seconds. That reporter you listed is serious how serious your statements are, but that's your real political, well, answer Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, of course, this law does not challenge the independence of the CNB, nor the governor, but the fact that yesterday, the governor, former Rohatinski, admitted that it was politically influenced and pressured him while he was governor, while he was acting on that duty, was listed by the people who were also from Minister Maric, who was later in Agrokor, who is otherwise exempt from everything, and in everything he was involved, Tomislav Karamark, Mr Kujundzic, Todorovic, Kosor and others, Mr Hanžekovic and all others. So the governor admits it. So, he, we didn't say that, but he admits and that was the pressure politically, to reduce that pressure, is essentially this law, which basically gives the governor the opportunity to tell the National Bank the truth about the state of the State of the State of Audit, to determine the audit. The only thing we're asking here is that we have some sort of financial Republic status report. These are reports that should have been given normally, however, politics is directly, Mr. Bačić knows, he was even highly positioned at the time, he knows that politics has directly influenced and threatened the independence of the CNB, pressuring Governor Rohatinski, probably when the current governor, Vujčić, who, of course, will not admit it now, but one governor has confessed and has been politically pressured, and thus essentially endangering the independence of the CNB, and this must not be allowed by any political option, not by any party, because neither HDZ nor by any HDZ or any party, the Croatian National Bank. They didn't get it in an amannet either historically or traditionally. It is the National Bank of Croatia and these laws, I expect, if they are not ordered to vote on this law, that everyone will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59798	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I'd like you to just watch your time. Dear colleague Boris Lalovec, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59799	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll look back a little bit on your exposure when you mention that plentiful fish being used, downed fish and said CNB I'm reading now at the height of the crisis when it happened to the Swiss franc and those loans to the RBA cooperative. He says CNB, so it was 2014, says he opened a tender, the governor is looking for a master chief to supply him with food with drinks. And he says in that tender documentation what that new master boss needs to know. It says in the tender documentation that the master, the chef who the bank will temporarily hire with 621 employees must be familiar with the preparation of vegetarian meals. And the future chef must have wide horizons. So this is required in the tender documentation of the wide horizon also has. He says instead of preparing a turkey with mills, shrubs and carps on the grill, as the master must be well acquainted with the culinary customs of other nations, and the halls of the CNB may soon spread the scents of foreign spice plants and eastern spice plants. With food for bankers it is only important and a good drop, says the future master must be closely familiar with the supply of food and drink, so that one of the skills required in the competition. Now, at a time of crisis when people who took in RBA cooperatives know what happened in this part, so we know the Swiss franc, we expect that they will actually hire an expert from the European Commission, that they will help us solve problems with bad loans, that problems will come to solve what truly concerns citizens. And actually this new tender documentation that was, it was all public already was going to cost an additional three and a half million kuna. Now imagine that part since the State Audit hasn't been there for years and it hasn't been for years, these are just the media when they've got one narrow part now, meaning the whole of that spending that's finally public because it's approved and their work this High House is interested in your opinion on what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59800	I thank you for this metaphorical culinary replica. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59801	Well, of course, instead of the governor and the Croatian National Bank looking for experts. Let's say they're going to take on Mr. Lovrinovic's proposals, have some experience dealing with it, he's going to mock. But to them, a more important master chef who will know how to serve the dishes of the fish is an expensive fish while the people in the containers see more and more people looking for any kind of survival while the demographic image is just like it is. While the emergency situation is the governor is looking for a master of the boss who'll have myodies and broad horizons. What they thought I didn't know, but it is sad, embarrassing and therefore we have the right people to give their representatives a report to the Croatian National Bank report, and that the State Audit as in other institutions tells us what happened. Who are of 621 employees. How did others compete and how did they come? What are their salaries? Well, that's what's expected. Not that we're getting into... their monetary policies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're just looking for what we should've been looking for before. So I'm surprised at the MPs who have been here for years, 15 years, 20 years, that so far they haven't asked the State Audit to perform an audit and that we have a report every year. That's amazing. That's Mr. Vice President funny, but good. That's right. But the CNB has a master master of broad horizons, so he can serve a fish well, make wine, serve wine. They don't care who they are, and because of that, we're here we are. Two-thirds of Croatia are empty due to this behaviour of a key institution that is everything but Croatia. And we must return with this law to be the Croatian National Bank, not a bank of different interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59802	Please stick to time for the second time. As for the governor, please contact your resident Zoran Milanovic. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you said on behalf of the club what we are stressing for the first time and for the first time and now, that this proposed law is exclusively based on our demand for greater transparency of all state bodies and other institutions. But we are constantly faced with arguments that slip through almost every proposal we make last time, even now. And the government refuses to accept this proposed law with similar arguments. Therefore, this law does not comply with the recommendations and requests of the European authorities, i.e. the European Central Bank. We would eventually accept it, but it is not allowed there from the European Union. So, the alibi is being transferred to the European institution and you said well, let's pass the law and then we'll see if the European institutions have anything against it. Secondly, before we pass this law, it is necessary to amend the State Audit Act, but the government knew that last time this law was in line. And to this day you are proposing to amend the Law on State Audit where the powers of the audit would be established and, in the case of the Croatian National Bank, you still do not have the procedure. So that's not the real reason. The third is a threat to the business secret. We always hear whenever we want some law with increased transparency to compromise business secrets. That is why we recently passed a law that did not allow the public register of owners and we have just disabled transparency. All this shows, in fact, that we will continue to protect this institution as well as others with the great mystery instead of what we are missing, which is transparency and what we notice in other cases and in private companies that this is our biggest problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59804	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dolnjak. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59805	In 238, you injured the article, telling the truth that Zoran Milanovic is my fellow citizen. His father is from Sinj and he is from Sinj, he lives in Zagreb, he was born in Zagreb,... busy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with your President Andrej Plenkovic, Mr Jandrokovic and Colindo Grabar-Kitarović, you can easily meet these people from Peppermint because you are close to them, with Mr Tedeschi, with Mr Milanović and with that group of people from Peppermint. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can just do it, but you know it all, the same day your president, on the same line and the relationship in the time of the war, means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, your President Andrej Plenkovic, who is in very good relations with Mr Zoran Milanović and the truth that he is originally from Sinj and not only him, but also numerous other senior officials and particularly impressed by Croatian politics such as the Croatian Mendelo Mendela Marko Radica, such as Mr Tihomil Raja, have been through and made a lot of contributions in Croatian politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59806	I thank my esteemed colleague Bulj for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure Institute, I have not spoken any false words, nor has it been a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure does not fall under this, for the third time I have warned you, this time I give you a reminder based on Article 239 because you are acting contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Answer to the line, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59807	A fellow Downhill, so that's all this is about transparency, the CNB must... As a state institution, here we repeat ourselves, we ask nothing but transparency and these stories of masters and competitions, crafts and fish, red wallpapers, millions that invest, we pay because we need to know it simply, not us as Parliamentarians, but citizens who chose us, and this law adds only this kind of transparency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It does not affect the independence of the CNB, we ask twice a year for reports and that is what we ask of the CNB, that is, we do not influence monetary policy or interfere in any way other than to return the CNB to national Croatian, not to be a state in the state and who knows whose interests it represents and least of all Croatian because it is visible by the results we have now in Croatia, that the CNB is least Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59808	I thank my esteemed colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before I rephrase it to you, I'd say to my colleague, Lalovac, who was one of the replicas, he'd be envious of you, and I think a colleague of Pernar, too. As for this piece of work of yours regarding Mr Rohatinski, Kujundzic and Karamark, I must say I am glad that here you have slowly begun to trust Mr Rohatinski. Namely, at your pre-election meeting for the mayor of Split-Dalmatia in Split, you said that the CNB and Mr Rohatinski were one of the biggest culprits for the affair in Agrokor, so now that he said something that seemed very nice to you and that suits you, you are happy to quote it regardless of what the other two who were with him at that meeting allegedly denied me. So both Mr. Karamarko and Mr. Kujundzic. Otherwise, you know that somewhere in the summer of 2012, when HDZ was already in opposition that someone from HDZ had offered him a prime minister's post or I don't know how he already stated it in his statement yesterday. You know what the problem is, pal Bull? Which ye no longer know whom ye would believe, whom ye would not believe. Because you see, when you give faith to your former Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection that he is against the thermal power plant at your place on Peru, it is revealed that it is directly possible that a few months before he advocates that she is abolished, signed her as a strategic project, so it is really not easy for you to trust anyone when he can't trust his closest associates, the more you even saved him when he said that Minister Maric had persuaded him to vote for the loan that HBOR gave at the end of the 12th month, that's the problem for you. When it's believed that something is read in a newspaper that can't be checked, it's so good that through one populist style we're trying to black out someone else to make our own points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59810	Thank you, colleague Bacic. Dear fellow Bully reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59811	Here is a part of the question Rohatinski, first of all I would say that Lalovac has a great replica and we all envy him, second Rohatinski and CNB is like the whole system was subordinated to Ivica Todorovic and you are part of that project also because you were Minister and you know it, you know that you are part of the project, so of course you are and you are more of a waste of time and I will not talk about it at all. Rohatinski also, according to me, is one of the culprits for endangering financial stability in the Republic of Croatia, and Vujčić later filed a criminal report which the experts carried out, experts and it is on... I don't know what he's doing, that's the first thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said what Slaven Dobrović signed. I only learned about the thermal power plant project personally in the 12th month, somewhere for a reversible I once heard, the greatest conflict of interest in energy is not Tomislav Karamarko and the Consulanta case, but this case. Well, you're recently, the minister is, she brought the government to... The power plant was declared strategic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've seen the reaction, if it hadn't been for the war, you wouldn't have talked about it. I'm against being signed, I'll be against her. That's my dad's signature. Oh, absolutely me, I'm from the first moment When I was in power and I kept my breaks here, pointing to the problem, you can check it out. [[Intruder Brkić: A colleague of Bačić please allow it.]] I am speaking on behalf of Miro Bulj, who is against the Peruca thermal power plant, which also gave the declaration to the town of Sinj that he accepted, a declaration in Split-Dalmatia County. It's my right. Whether someone signed this or not I know you're waiting for the main one, which is the Committee for Strategic Financial Projects where President Martina Dalic is. But you gave the minister's husband, strategically declared one part of the project... which was stolen from the HEP project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a HEP project that was stolen. And in the end, he's gonna want to sell it and raise millions, and you're holding it as Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59812	Thank you. You really don't understand kindness. You hear very well when you want to hear. Don't play Manolich. Don't play Manolich. You already have one warning from your colleagues. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59813	Dear fellow Bull, here I think this debate is actually opening up a new dimension of this proposal that we've made, because what we've brought here I think might not even be enough. Maybe we should really put in provisions to place one camera that would be at the entrance to control who comes all the way to the CNB. Maybe some new truths would come out of it, because this really is a lot of accusations that appear in the media space that you warn your colleagues about. And we see that the CNB has actually become a place that's being questioned in public and that's bad. It's actually a problem where the CNB would have to keep its integrity, the head people of the CNB would have to be persons of respect. I can't be for daily policy talks. But here's the answer from the former governor and from the restraint of the current governor, we see that a number of accusations actually have more and more to say one foundation in the people. And what if a people stop believing in an institution like the CNB? Then we'll have the whole society down. And then when all people leave us, they don't trust politicians, they don't trust people here in this Parliament, they don't trust the judiciary, they don't trust the CNB. What else do we have left? Is there even one pillar of this society that the people believe in? We're just suggesting a dico model that people can gain insight and maybe build one more positive opinion, and not based on all these allegations that appear to actually build negativeism and that negativeism is transmitted and these children who come to visit us, what have we seen that they can learn from all this? Just that society is rotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59814	I thank my colleague Panenic. Answer, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59815	Comrade Panenic, I would agree with you that you should and with this law is essentially restoring people's trust with the CNB institution. Because this institution will be essentially the same as the other institutions and will not be considered a state within the state and will thus be more accepted by both the public and the officials. Because this way is unclear, I think we're talking about tendering while Croatia is squirming in never bigger problems while we're losing jobs. For the boss's mother, I don't know what, I think instead of looking for experts to help the advice that will guide the best way simply the people and the MPs deserve the State Audit to come in and give us a report at the National Bank. And it will restore some of the trust of the CNB and if the governor were correct he would have asked for this himself, and he would not have asked for help when we first proposed this law that was not adopted a year ago and in the previous government, he would not have asked European officials for help. Which way is that, I mean, is that the CNB? We remember the letters they sent that shouldn't be done. So stop. The business of the CNB is the influence of some kind that will endanger independence, we influence, it does not affect anything but this is normal. And it would be natural for that man who runs the National Bank, who is at the head of the CNB himself, to tell the MPs that it's okay, not to remain a state in the state. And ask God in what way and what is done from bids to wages, in which way is it determined. We read all kinds of information, that the governor, his assistants, have a much higher salary than the president has, that he determines for himself both his assistants and his other employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59816	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bull for your reply. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59817	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here it is today, this is already the second attempt by MOST colleagues to try to control their business by amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank, to enable the efficiency of their business, means the State Audit Office to process business, business efficiency under quotes. Just as the State Audit Office does in the Office of the President, just as they do in the Office of the Prime Ministers, as they do in the Office of Presidents of the Parliament, they also have powers with the CNB. Perhaps one suggestion to colleagues from the Most, especially in this section, which states Article 3 of the National Bank Council may be appointed at most in two terms, which I think is good to limit. However, I think that we have lost sight of a broader perspective here that perhaps this colleague Lovrinovic will better correct me, since there are no outside members to oversee business for a long time. And I think that would be good for the same thing as transparency if we could work here until the second reading to other than those members of the council that ultimately represent the closest fellow governors. And then the question arises whether they advise themselves? Wouldn't it be good if through one expert, and we know that we have people who are very professional in this area and that they are external members and that they can ask some questions beyond that narrow circle of theirs that define their part of monetary policy. I also remember very well when we discussed, I see that today, when he spoke to him about what HDZ had filled in, I know that there were talks on the part of the Most that would then form a Committee on Monetary Affairs within the Parliament that would be apart from the Committee on Fiscal Issues that he would be a Committee on Monetary Affairs. Well, maybe I think that's one extra step that in those fill-ins when we were just inside the SDP club discussing it, we saw that maybe it's a good thing, because we're just talking about fiscal problems both in the Parliament and through these approvals, and that simply through maybe some reports from the CNB only then we touch the issues of monetary policy. So perhaps that the initiative that was at the beginning might be further expanded that through this Committee on Monetary Affairs, we would also form a special committee on monetary issues in the Assembly, and then perhaps more often the governor or his deputies and assistants would come to the Assembly and open up questions at that time, much broader issues of monetary policy. And especially today when we talk about Croatia entering the euro zone, we knew it was practically like it was ahead of us, and we actually have very, very many more open issues here, so we only had one brief conference, it was well painted, there will be so many prices, there will be no transaction costs, there will be no part of it. However, that part of it remains in that part today. And the euro is a long-term issue for Croatia, and I don't think that it should be limited then, perhaps through the Committee on Fiscal Affairs, it is a purely monetary issue and perhaps we should think about it in the future, and then we should transfer some form and total monetary sovereignty to the European Central Bank. And we certainly need a few years of good public debate over the introduction of the euro, and not only to look at certain or short-term effects, there must be much more important long-term effects. As far as this law itself, relating to the State Audit Office, we see no problem in having the State Audit Office analyzed the business of the CNB and that it had nothing to do with any negotiations with the EU, when we entered the EU, and as then something was banned. I think if we know that the governor is also elected in this House, that all laws are passed in this House of Commons, then I don't think there are any arguments that we need any special approvals from the European Central Bank to see how this particular part of the money is spent, and in particular to get outside members who will be able to ask certain questions on this CNB Council that perhaps in this way we get a certain transparent business on the transparency of business. So on behalf of the SDP club, just like I said last time, and on my own personal name I don't mind, saying when they don't have other institutions to say "more important" in our society, and I don't know who doesn't have some kind of state audit, I don't see why an institution like the CNB wouldn't be under the authority of the State Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59818	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boris Lalovec, for this debate. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59819	Thank you very much, dear fellow Lalovac, for your support. But here I'd just say that this proposal of yours about the outside members is certainly a quality and good suggestion, because I've heard it before, but we have two preconditions. One is now here I expect the presentation and colleagues Peric on behalf of the HDZ Club, I think that determines the fate of this law in this first reading whether the HDZ Club and the Government as such are willing to discuss and find a model that will be acceptable to them in that part. Then after that, if the way to talk is open, we can certainly talk about exactly some additional suggestions that will come out through this debate and hopefully through that we might actually have a proposal that will be acceptable to everyone and that will be unanimously accepted here. Of course, there is a second moment, and that is that the Ministry of Finance also has the possibility in the Law on the State Audit Office to empower them to be able to implement them. So there are two key moments, we have a good will both you and we here, but here we are waiting from this exhibition we will surely have a complete picture of whether there is any hope for any change that will certainly be positive at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59820	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So that not only may the outside members, why not the members of the Committee on Finance or the chairman of the Committee on Finance know that we have both the Fiscal Committee and that the whole time what we can hear is the story from the CNB that everything is in fiscal trouble, that everything is in government, that the government needs to be restructured. You hear very often lessons given to both the former governments and the current government that certain restructurings should be done, very, very elegantly shared. But when it comes to some kind of domain, then you can't actually ask through committees, through certain reports, but only here can we hear some reports where everything is actually stable, everything is fine. And then when a big company like Agrokor breaks down, then the regulators are asked questions. And all these years when they've been talking about reports here, I'm asking if anyone has heard any information when they've been defending whether there was any problem. So you can take it freely and you'll see that it wasn't even talked about. But they're very easy to teach any HDZ government, SDP, MOST, any one. They'll tell you everything about how to restructure it very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59822	I'd like to thank my colleague Lalovec for his reply. Next is a replica of a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59823	Dear fellow Lalovac, I remember when I proposed during this year's budget debate that funds aimed at NATO military missions abroad be redirected to address social issues, i.e. to be spent on the needs of citizens who are poor. It means helping the poor settle their living expenses. And what happened then? At the time, all members of the SDP voted in favour of my proposal. Everyone. But what if the SDP were in power then when I suggested it would then vote against and they would say no, it is better to go on NATO military missions, money than to go to poor citizens. That's how it is now. You support the CNB review when you're in opposition, and when you're in power, when you can handle it then you sell the fog then nothing, then selling the jacks, then things are the way they are and ate the donkey wolf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59824	I thank my colleague Pernar. Come in, mate Lalovec's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yes, you said well as if we were selling, and you know very well how in that particular part of it we fought for the conversion of the Swiss franc and then we got some support in the Parliament, so I wouldn't quite agree with you if it was just a sale of bunnies. These were difficult times when Croatia was in deep recession, and it was also important to worry that a part of the conversion of the Swiss franc was made. So we here together, too, no matter what opposition we were, we also supported Mr. Scybol's proposal, which we thought was good. And I don't see any reason for any of your suggestions. And we'll see what the future will bring, what you said when you're participating, how the one who's your coalition partner will then be set up, so on that, by that. That's what we'll see if it's us or our HDZ colleagues, and then you'll be able to criticise it if you don't accept what you think is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59826	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for his reply to the replica. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59827	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here we have already mentioned the actual intention, i.e. the request and the proposal of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, in fact, in which direction this bill is secondly proposed. It is, first of all, a request for an audit, i.e. the possibility that the State Audit Office will control the business of the Croatian National Bank. Then the second point to which the law itself is referred is the vote of the Croatian Parliament on half-yearly information on the financial situation and annual reports. And the third to what is being referred here is to reduce the length of the term of office of the governor of the CNB and members of the CNB Council to two mandates. In the government's response to the European Central Bank's opinion on the audit itself, so we can all agree that certainly the State Audit Office should control the business of the CNB. However, you have set yourself in six points here in your bill of law, which is to determine the truthfulness, credibility of financial reports, verification of the procedures for the management of the money, etc., management and availability procedures for real estate, human resources, and that's totally fine. However, the following two points relating to the evaluation of the effectiveness of the programmes and projects and activities of the CNB according to the principles of economics, efficiency and relevance and evaluation of other transactions and procedures which the State Audit Office considers relevant for the purposes of drawing up the Report on the operation of the Croatian National Bank are here in the very opinion delivered by the European Central Bank, in fact, what such general requirements cannot be accepted. In this regard, the Government also believes that the State Audit should indeed be carried out as an independent and on a professional basis in fact and on a non-political basis all these verifications of business procedures etc., but in this case, when we talk about other transactions then it can go in many other directions which would not in fact retain the independence of the CNB, respectively, given that it is necessary to base Article 37. The Statutes of the European Central Bank should also have certain fences, i.e. they should be binding and commercially secret, then that independence is in question. In this way, the State Office for the Audit of Procedures by the Croatian National Bank would then be able to assess and assess the effectiveness of the programme, economics, etc. Therefore, this obligation to keep a business secret and the possibility of an assessment at that time could not have been so independent and could not have been so protected by the Croatian National Bank with its independence in relation to all others. So, I say, in relation to the business itself and these procedures that are listed in the previous points, it is something that can be accepted in one way and accepted in any case because I say we should all be under surveillance, but in this section that applies to other jobs that are very broadly shown here is actually not so accepted. The second is the vote of the Croatian Parliament on semi-annual information and financial status. So here we now have the same opportunity actually to get an insight through the half-yearly information provided by the Croatian National Bank, only in this case we do not vote but we take it into consideration. In the light of the European Central Bank itself, it is said that in how much the Croatian Parliament adopts this annual report, it has one way of affecting both business and the implementation of monetary policy itself. It says this, the Croatian Parliament's decision to adopt an annual report by the CNB and half-yearly information on the financial situation of the CNB, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy, seems to mean that the Croatian Parliament could give direct or indirect instructions to the CNB and its bodies responsible for the decision, and its members, e.g. with regard to the modification of the CNB annual report or to the dispute of the CNB assessment of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. All rights of the Parliament to approve, suspend, revoke or postpone the CNB decision would be contrary to the institutional independence of the CNB of the Treaty and the Statute of the European Central Bank. So in that part, I don't think that would be good, and then it would actually show that policy influence that is constantly being mentioned here which one is under what political influence would then be only a direct political influence. As for the very reduction in the number of CNB governors and other members of the CNB Council, I do not see it at all a problem, so here we can ask the question, why other mandates would not be limited if the president of the state could only have two mandates, then I think there is no reason not to. And I think in that part, I think we can all agree on that. And as far as here is concerned, I say the proposal itself, therefore, it may still be discussed in the reduction of these certain items which would much clearerly define the procedure and, of course, in parallel to the State Audit Act itself, which should normally be regulated by that possibility and that this would happen parallelly so that this State Audit Office would have the authority and the possibility to actually enter into business surveillance, I say, the Croatian National Bank itself. And for this second part, we must be very careful because we should not question the monetary independence of the Croatian National Bank itself. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59828	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59829	...that the Croatian Democratic Community Club, i.e. the Government does not accept such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59830	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for this debate and the addition. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59831	Mrs. Peric, are you perhaps against the entry of the audit into the CNB for the same reasons why you stated in your own time that your superior Bozidar Kalmeta is not guilty? Here it is today, i.e. Yesterday, news was that a trial was continued by your previous superior, and one witness, Igor Premilovac, convinced that they had drawn money until he said under quotes "they were not breached". So what was it about? The Premilovac acknowledged that he had arranged a money draw under the instructions of Joseph Sapunar. And what am I telling you? You were saying then, Mr. Pernar, so it's no good to say that Calmeta is guilty, so nothing has been proven, no verdict, etc. However, it is evident that the money was taken, it is evident that there are witnesses who pulled it out, etc. And now just to prevent such machinations, to prevent today from having a new affair in the CNB this time tomorrow, you have a proposal specific to allow the revision of the business of the CNB. You're throwing him away, and you're rejecting the opposition from the HDZ all the time, here's what you're saying. Okay. Something's not okay. Well, then give the amendment, let the HDZ give the amendment to the proposal, let it give something concrete, and not only deny everything others do, that it only criticises that nothing is wrong with them, and you're not suggesting anything better. What you are doing is against the interest of the Croatian state, and every time the laws are in the interest of the citizens, you are against it. And then you're still telling us not to make suggestions, every once in a while we're making a legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59832	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Answer, colleague Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59833	Well, as far as it doesn't really have anything to do with what we're talking about, if we're going to talk about it, then let's say the State Audit went into the business of every ministry and so was the ministry where my former mayor was. But we must also say that here's Mr. Premilovac said he never had any contact or knowledge of what was going on. So he didn't charge him with anything directly. Therefore, when we talk about the Croatian People's Ban, about business, I say clean business in terms of costs, purchase, property management, profits they make, etc. It is something that can and must be discussed in one way and made possible, but not compared to investing in monetary policy. Because I believe that such direct, direct interference of the State Audit Office itself would not actually result in quality assessments, i.e. that we would have in a certain way an interference in monetary policy when we know that it should be fully independent of policy and of the influences that could directly affect any decision. So here's what you said, in fact, we do, and how in the interest of this system being quality done, that we have both a quality and an economic and political system in which all citizens will actually live better and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59834	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for his reply. The next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59835	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Peric, let's open it up like that, to be constructive in this part that you've commented on, of course, that part you've confirmed about those basic costs and that. However, we always go back to when these costs are assigned to certain activities and programs, then it is seen to be appropriate. Because the way they're just individually listed then it's very hard to determine if there's been excessive consumption anywhere. And under this efficiency of the program, and we're not going into the very program at its core, but the related costs for its achievement. I think maybe, if there's something we can do to say, a certain change so that this and this around the others is clearer and see if we meet here, I'm saying here I'm opening up space in that conversation. This is about keeping a business secret. Of course, it's absolutely impossible for any revision to enter and even independent when it entered the CNB whether the same business secret was not compromised. So, an independent audit which is not an integral part of the CNB performs an audit, has access to even most of the documents than would have a state. If we do not question them whether they are a possible source, of course, that all must commit to keeping business secrets must be on the standards that are prescribed that the independent is bound by the same model we apply to the State Audit. If we feel that the State Audit can't keep a secret as independent as it can, then they really have a problem of mistrust with the State Audit Office. But there may be one communication that can bring it into line with the State Audit Office, the Croatian National Bank, and see what the standards are. But I'm saying, I'm going to be like, can we postpone one proposal, here I'm going to ask the chairman for a second, and this vote next week we're going to make one joint meeting so we can try to agree these positions, to really be sure before we go refuse first reading, if there's not going to be support that we know we've tried everything. Here's my suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59836	I thank my colleague Panenic. Answer, dear colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59837	Here, I think we understood each other in this part when I said compared to these two points. And I think this proposal that you've made is really good and it would be good to talk about it in the next week, make a meeting, and actually see how we can coordinate it all. Because, in fact, I say, the State Audit is the one that is both professional and able to give a quality assessment of all these costs and everything else related to business itself and normally that it is even most of it in one way reliable if we tell the truth rather than what the other audits are, here is, unfortunately, proof of the time. Therefore, I think that there must be a legal framework but indeed a legal framework for the State audit to be allowed in with restrictions which can then be precisely defined, and also to coordinate what would be the scope of the business verification itself. Therefore, I think that this is a good way and that we can discuss it in this way and agree on a quality proposal that would go parallel to the amendment of one law and another, the Law on State Audit and on the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59838	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Peric. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and the power of the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59839	Dear ladies and gentlemen, for decades in our country we have been discussing the distribution of money, and unfortunately even today when we are discussing the new CNB law proposed by the Most, it is again actually about controlling the distribution of money, and the core role of the CNB is whether it is the central bank that broadcasts money or it is just an ordinary exchange office. If the citizens of our country take what happens to the bill here, I'll take 10 kunas and if they look at the edge of the 10 kuna bill, they'll see... Germani, so our kunas are produced in Germany at least 10 kuna bills, while e.g. A 50 kuna bill, it's a product written here by CBS Austria. So, what's this about? It's just that our own money isn't made in our country. Our central bank does not play the role of lending this money to business banks that would continue to lend it to citizens and businesses, and therefore all loans with a currency clause. So if the CNBs were to lend kunas to business banks, then business banks wouldn't be lending loans denominated in foreign currencies, but simply getting from the CNB kuna, passing on kunas and over. But like I said, the CNB is a currency exchange. The central bank course it has held since 1994 has been a disaster for the economy. It is simply unreal, unreal in the sense that the kuna is overrated or that more import goods can be obtained for it than should be. And on the other hand, our domestic goods are foreign, when our producers sell our goods on foreign markets it's more expensive than it should be. The depreciational or better said course was described by an academic, or doctor of science, former director of the economic institute Zvonimir Balletic. He said that, he said that such a course policy has led Croatia to ruin, that the course is a far more important factor than all other factors and that precisely because of this policy of unrealistic course we have been failing for the past 20 years. He says, say, and people will be able to buy on a loan of various things. But he says right away, but he won't have where to get those loans back from. And why is that? Well, because not only is the course unrealistic, but there's no money to pay off interest. So, domestic kuna is only created if money is borrowed from the outside. And what happens? Borrow money from the outside, borrow the principal of the loan. I'm supposed to return the interest chief and then open the paper today, read the paper, and what does it say? And I don't know, Agrokor can't repay the loans. Croatian roads cannot repay loans, the Croatian state cannot repay loans. Petrochemy can't repay credits. Shipyards can't repay loans. The railroads can't repay the loans. All other things, say, the City of Zagreb has no place to repay the loans. It can go on forever. We can list the company for a company that can't repay the loans. After all, when you look at a long series of failed companies, you'll see the same thing. In the end, it always came down to the fact that these companies, as you assume, could not repay the loans themselves. This cause of the problem that plagues the mass of citizens simply does not touch this legal proposal either. He doesn't do that at all. Thus, this proposal will not solve any problems, and that is the irreparability of the total amount of credit. In fact, I'm now going to explain to the Mr. Chairman the picture, which means the loans are invaluable. So if we imagine one column representing debt means society, that's how much we all owe, and Mr. Brkic, on the other hand, put how much money we have in total. You will see that this column is longer than the column of money we have at our disposal. So if society had all the money it had to pay off, we'd still be in debt. There is another factor that is problematic, and that is the very fact that interest on debt is ever greater than interest on savings. So long, the debt column is growing much faster than the monetary column is growing. And of course, the resulting simple debt is growing from year to year faster and faster. And as debt grows that doesn't return and creditors get more nervous, lose their nerves, demand property state, private, etc. Unfortunately, no one in Croatia is interested except us from the Living Wall. Larry Hanningan wrote a book in 1971 on the subject “I Want Earth Plus 5%”. He explained that by issuing loans, banks only create principals and seek back and interest and that simply since all the money was created by a loan, and the interest money never existed, that simple debts in total could never be paid back, and that therefore all the countries that accepted the money as a debt, or what Slavko Kulić would call debt doctrine, fell into a debt Bob trail that simply buried them in an ever-increasing debt and growing chaos. And then, of course, all rights are cut down to citizens, increasing all possible burdens, introducing new taxes, such as real estate taxes, etc. etc. Unfortunately, I can talk here until the day of judgment, and here people won't hear me in Parliament, and very few will open their hearts to my message. But what shocks me most is not fellow representatives but Croatian citizens. Citizens who say, so what if the CNB is a currency exchange, so what if the loans in total can't be paid back? So what if the course isn't real, so what if the interest money doesn't exist, are those important questions? So the questions that our citizens should be about first order are our citizens' last questions. Totally irrelevant, they don't even think about them, at least most of them. And sometimes I feel, or I feel like I’m fallen into the world. I just walk around town yelling at people, credits can't come back, and nobody's there, nobody hears me, nobody listens to me, nobody cares. And it's like there's no echo, like I'm talking to her, and the echoes are gone, and nobody's just percepting my words. And it makes me sad. That's why I'm sad. I'd like the citizens to open their hearts. God forbid they open up. That's why I wrote two books – how money was made and the Money Mechanism in PDF published them that people can download them for free. Unfortunately, however, most citizens are not interested in the role of the central bank at all. Most citizens, it's like I said before, a peripheral question. And that the problem of credit default is a serious problem will only be taken when their company fails because they could not repay the loans, or because they will be disbursed because they could not repay the loans etc. etc. So until that loan default kicks them at a personal level, they're simply going to ignore the problem. But what's the worst of it all? It's not the worst thing that will only wake up then and realize that credit default is a problem. It's already the worst thing that will continue to look at it as a personal problem. They won't think, so neither the state can repay the loans nor Agrokor can repay the loans, so neither the highways can railways, shipyards, Petrochemia or any other subject great. Well, they don't care. Why? Because in a sick system of values, they taught them not to think in width but to look at themselves. And they're looking for a personal solution, and there's no personal solution. Because the system is set up to get us all in trouble eventually. And unfortunately, MPs who, not that, but who now support, will support and support in the future this system, nakaradan, do not realize that they are working against the interests of their own state, their own people, and thus their own families and themselves. What this system gives them is this, it doesn't give them freedom, it only gives them a position within colonial power. So the government in Croatia is not national, it's not national, it's not civil, it's not even anal, it's colonial, and its service is in the interest of foreign forces that govern our country as their colony, the protectorate, the place they run, etc. And then these MPs who support this colonial system that keeps us in debt slavery without hope, let's say releases ever from that debt, the burden of debt and the consequence of that debt, they're actually fighting for a position within the colonial government. Or they're fighting for a position to deploy that misery and misery they have and then sew something for themselves, etc. But what they do is treason, betrayal of their own people. And with that, the worse they are aware of it, the fact that they are aware of it has a responsibility not only to the people but also to the creator who will ask them one day when they are said to the white capital, they will ask them why you did it, why you did it against your own people, why did you work for these global interest rates, for the lenders, for those who have twisted right, for justice and who are basically the oppressors of people, and as it says in one place, the devil says the murderer of people from the beginning? So, you put yourself in the service of an evil system and an evil people, and you believe it will all end well. And how can the ladies and gentlemen of HDZ end well? How can the nakarad and the evil system end well, how? Not at all. What will say is that you are bearing a historical role, i.e. the responsibility for removing your country's right to exist as a self-determination entity, a sovereign, that you have abolished your people's right to self-determination, that is. to choose his own destiny, you've already forced him to say so, a future that is determined by someone else, and not by him. You've taken away your own people's right to a better life. You took away his hope for a better future, and all for selfish and ground-based interests. There, however, it is illusory to accuse only you of it because the people have chosen you, you represent it here, and that is the greatest tragedy. So the people voted for you who worked against him. Is that what to say about such a people? It is not known who is more mad than those who work against the people, or the people who vote for those who work against him. It's one suicidal relationship, because after all, the disappearance of our people makes you disappear, too. Because who do you represent if your people disappear? The smaller the citizens of our country it will be in the end and the fewer municipalities and cities, and the fewer politicians and eventually there will be only a few of you who will no longer have anyone to exploit, and then you yourself will disappear. You will turn off the candle as it says, the last one will be you who will turn off the light in our country, and all with the help of a people who resists common sense and refuses to side with truth and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59840	I thank my colleague Pernar for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59841	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pernar, you've detected one thing well, and it's that, unfortunately, people often don't understand what's happening so long as they don't feel it on their own skin. They believe that regardless of what others are hungry, they will always have something to eat, regardless of what others act like they will never be, regardless of how many others cannot repay credits that they will be able to keep paying those wars, regardless of what others had to move out that their children would not have to move out. But unfortunately, it's all about time. There were people who were very rich, very successful, very famous, so today they're digging through the trash, so today they have pensions insufficient to live. There were presidents of the Parliament, there were parliamentary deputies, there were ministers who live today as beggars, and that's just because the state didn't fulfill that function that had to be fulfilled by the 1st Point of the Constitution, which is to be a social state, to take care of all its citizens equally, that they have security both in youth and in age, and when they are in Parliament and when they are not in Parliament, and when they are unemployed, and when they study etc. Unfortunately, there have been history and peoples who have disappeared, a lot more people, a lot more powerful people than they were Croats, and it is regrettable that nothing has been taught us, that we are essentially crossing a decade in which we are actually satisfied with the present moment, and we have no medium-term, let alone a long-term strategy that we want to come, how we want to develop, and how we want to improve our own lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59842	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59843	My fellow Pernar, our people expect assistance from HDZ and this reminded me of the song, or the folk tale Postolar and the devil, “He was once a carpenter an honest man but already old, many children need much and there is no bread in the house, and children all shout bread, from where the bread of need is deaf. He sews an old man all night, sews an old man's hands are already trying to make him sick. Imposed of evil torment, he shouts out for help, and who you are, as if the devil were bringing me help. You're just a master of words saying, suddenly knock on the door, there's a hell of a lot bigger. What a good trade. It's not good for that old, weak pleasure, old shilo, and bad things in the house. Was he helping the devil either? The devil will then help the light, all the treasure beyond measure, but you know that each other's hand washes again. That's why after seven summers with me you'll be the way of my world." That's what our people did, he accepted help from those who serve evil, and he doesn't realize that this help that it's what they say is a bear service that he'll have to pay off interest. Listen up. "The power of the lazy God prays, the hunger does not ask who feeds him, my master favors all things, and you are a dead man's soul. But in the house of white bread, yellow gold, beautiful gold. The son of God is late, many times to spend the night there. The master came by, etc." And mostly the thing is he says – and what you want to wake up, the time comes, the hell jumps to jump. A knock on the door suddenly a good big old Gosseau already let go of the job. Faster let's go now, full measure seven summers, my way needs the world. Wait till we have dinner, who's going to be hungry in hell on a tripod sitting there. A sio is valid on the tripod This is going to end badly for all, Mr. Chairman. [[Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague Pernar.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59844	Your time is up. I'd like to thank you for this content replica, the reply to the replica. I just don't know if you've replicated yourself or Mr. Bunjec, because at first you said Mr. Pernar. But good. Let's move on. Next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, as I said on behalf of the Club, the final proposal of the Law of the Most Independent Lists on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Croatian National Bank is something that should be acceptable to the MPs, which should go to another reading. We're not looking for anything else. These amendments to the Law on the Croatian National Bank are not required, but that the Croatian National Bank has the same relationship with the state audit as the others and that we parliamentary deputies have the right to see the State Audit report and to discuss this without touching monetary policy, not interfering in independence and I believe that this reading should pass and I expect all MPs to support it, and of course the second reading will also be broadly debated because it is necessary to state why someone should be limited, the governor would not, etc. And I'll just read it now, my colleague Lalovec mentioned me. In the biggest crisis in the Republic of Croatia, this year's article contained the text, Lalovac, a colleague quoted him partially, and I would read him about what is going on in the Croatian People's Bank, how they behave, and how they treated the social community irresponsiblely when the biggest crisis, the recession hit the Republic of Croatia, the way the Croatian National Bank behaves. In the Croatian National Bank we have 621 employees, they decided to hire external chefs and waiters, and to allocate as much as 3 and a half million kunas. In addition, bankers obviously like a little nicer food, so the CNB administration asked future temporary staff to know some specific gastronomic skills. The tender documentation states that the chef, who will temporarily hire the bank, must be well aware of the preparation of vegetarian meals, the future chef must be wide-ranging horizons. That's what he said, a colleague of Lalovac's. But then he had time in the replica to continue. Instead of preparing a turkey with mills, shrubs and carps on the grill, since the master will have to be particularly familiar with the culinary customs of other nations. And the Croatian National Bank's corridors may soon be spreading the scent of foreign spice plant peace. With food for bankers is just as important and a good drop. The future chef will have to be familiar with the love of food and drink, which is also one of the skills required in the Croatian National Bank competition. In particular, as it stands in the documentation, the cook must have the skills to organise the preparation of the formal lunches and midwives according to the protocol by connecting the enology with gastronomy. Fish, meat, sweets. So, along with the white cooked fish there are white wines, with game going something stronger black, with sweets to serve something more aromatic. Especially with the master chef of the CNB needs urgent, they need the following catering professions chef specialist, qualified cook and waiter. So here are the recommendations for those who want to go that it is good to apply for the Croatian National Bank competitions. As we learn in the Croatian National Bank, catering staff will also cook for bank employees and numerous protocol guests as the bank says public gatherings and preparation should be used by cettering to prepare the food itself. Gentlemen, this was at a time when it was the most difficult for a Croatian man in 2014, when Croatian society fell apart. Instead of the Croatian National Bank looking for experts to give them advice, which will help them get out of the crisis, colleagues spoke about monetary policy just before, both of them. Although we don't enter the monetary system, they've been looking for chefs to cook for them, who spend millions of kunas, uncontrollably, we don't know how many, good drops, good wine, and knocked down fish. It's a key and primary goal for them. With the governor having a higher salary, it seems to me 14 thousand kuna in that time, rather than Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Who controls the competition, who controls their salary, who gives them 14 thousand kunas more than then Prime Minister Milanovic? So, who controls the salary and what are the tender conditions for others and professionals and helpers? So we must, simply the Croatian National Bank and at least this revision to enter, I believe that both HDZ and SDP and all of us will go to another reading together. Because we don't interfere with their independence here. And those demands, you remember the requirements of the European Union, officers who stood in protective custody when this law first went into the protection of the governors as if we were interfering with these amendments to the Law on the Croatian People's Bank in their independence. What independence? Simply this body was chosen by the people, if it makes sense. Either we disband this body and let Croatia, or we appoint the presidents of banks, foreign banks that are in Croatia, so let them decide. Well, I did just before, and even if they didn't give them conditions, those appointed presidents in Croatia would sometimes raise their voice against them. And this way I don't know, so we're not agents here. We must protect here the institution of the Croatian National Bank which must work in the interests of Croatian society and which must give the State an audit to enter and see their business, how they operate, what money is spent, and not that they are state-owned. Well, they can't be above all else. It's not getting mixed up in their expertise, competences, so we can discuss it. We have a right to debate, a colleague in front of me was discussing monetary policy, wrong politics, that's his right. But by this law we do not interfere and I believe that together until the second reading that this will be accepted and Club Mosta will demand to vote individually, meaning that the vote is individually on this bill, and not as the last time it is quick is not. We'll ask because we have the right as a club to request individually no matter what the first reading is. Because if you stop this in the first reading, it is a message that you do not want to discuss at all about the Croatian National Bank, which was at least so far Croatian. I believe this is a small step and I expect, and I have seen from the debate, even from a colleague from HDZ who spoke for the club, she has shown good faith and I believe that we will all take that step together. We do nothing of this law to the Croatian National Bank or influence its independence, nor get involved in anything except that the State Audit is doing to other institutions. And we don't have the right as people's advocates to have a different attitude towards this institution. This is the Croatian National Bank. We are the Croatian Parliament. We were chosen by the people. If one institution has to provide a state audit, I don't see any reason why not the other. And what European officials are going to say is not the problem with our parliamentary representatives. We are chosen by the people, and we are not European officials, nor can European officials forbid us and order us to ask one institution to carry out audits in accordance with regulations as well as in other institutions in the same way. No less, no more than we ask, and of course they give us a report on which we have the right to hear the report every half year and from the Croatian National Bank on all the flows they are obliged not to interfere as they say in their policy. If their policy had been good for sure today, Croatia would not be in, it is in this position as it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59846	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59847	Thank you. I won't touch the vice president anymore. Dear fellow Bull, I agree with you. We had a deal about this bill, so I think it would be a turn, that's what a colleague here has shown one good will and maybe there's a real agreement that this law goes into another reading, then it's accepted, and I think that would be the order given that agreement that existed. But the fact that in the debate on this law he was supported by HDZ representatives and SDP MPs, here's a colleague of Lalovec who supported the law here, he was also supported when we first referred him to the procedure. Unfortunately, I don't know what happened in the meantime, what the pressures were and why the law was rejected and why there was no vote. Here we see that we also have support for the Living Wall, and colleagues of Lovrinović and other MPs and I believe that we will refer it to another reading, then ultimately vote. There's no reason for a state audit not to enter the CNBs. This does not violate at all again the independence of the Croatian National Bank. And the situation around Agrokor is just showing us that hiring private auditors can go in favor of those who order it, as was the case in Agrokor. We can also take into account these costs and these situations that you cited as spending all the money, perhaps the interest of people in the Croatian National Bank to keep the state audit from entering the CNB. I don't see what that would be like to put pressure on the Croatian National Bank. It can only be control and I don't see why the HDZ wouldn't support it. What kind of pressure they're under, I don't know. I hope they're not under any pressure. And what one of these officials from the European Central Bank is going to say is less important. We know Governor Vujcic is connected to them. And probably they're responding to the information they're getting from him, not to others, not to the actual information that we're giving here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59848	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59849	Well, Governor Vujcic is a man who is the head of the Croatian National Bank, who was paid by the travel bank. It is a fact and it was, of course, and it was, and it was clearly given to the opinion and the Committee for Conflict of Interest. Of course we believe that this will be supported and that it will go into another reading because this is the minimum of the fact that the Croatian National Bank has the attribute of Croatia at all, that it belongs to Croatian society, Croatian institutions at all. Because if the state audit, and you said that other foreign audits and it's visible from Agrokor that they weren't audit houses that did not do their job properly, it's similar to that of you in the case of a project where the same person doing the project worked and an environmental impact study. So that's how these side audits happen. Here he needs an independent audit that does his job well. Unfortunately, other institutions are not doing their job, because in government audit reports in these two years since I am a parliamentary representative of a number of irregularities are showing where billions are concerned. However, the second question now is that the institutions of the other DORH and others are not doing their job according to national audit reports. But of course we expect everyone to support this and that this will go into another reading and that in the second reading, the Croatian National Bank will simply be subject to the state audit as it does not affect independence, and the Croatian National Bank will finally get at least one small step to be Croatian. Because it's unnecessary for the Parliament to discuss anything at all to leave everything to Governor Vujčić and call a competition for masters of the bosses, and so we're going to live the life of the hedgehog while the people are in the container and while the state is essentially moving... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59850	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59851	Mr. Bulj you said well while the state is falling apart, while people are digging through the trash they are visiting there in the CNB and it is a great shame for them and only their behaviour and their income speak to to what extent they are separated from Croatian reality. However, I want to tell you one thought, which is that as long as Croatia is in the European Union we can discuss whether we will live in a slightly larger or smaller cage, we can discuss how long there will be chains that hold us, etc. However, the only freedom for us people is the state sovereignty in the fullest sense of that word can be achieved only by leaving the European Union and by colonial formations aimed at the expense of smaller members, less developed to enrich those central, stronger or not even their citizens in general but by elite within those countries that owns a banking system that is cadets of both countries, and the peoples of the European Union, even those immigrants who come from third world countries, and they are actually exploited by that colonial system, a system in which 1% rules above 99% thanks to human stupidity, naivety and superficiality. That is, because people in the elections give their vote for those parties that hold them in a state of constant struggle for existence and in fact life, and do not give them the opportunity to have a normal life in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59852	I thank my colleague Pernar. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59853	Comrade Pernar, I'm going to repeat this one more time, I've repeated it several times. I personally did not vote for the European Union, and I repeat, I will now repeat my reasons, because there was no debate before the entry into the European Union transparently, was not the representation of people who said what was not good at entering the European Union. Most of the political elites in this House were unanimous to join the European Union, vowing to flower flowers through whatever direction we turn, that there would be gold diamonds on the roads, that there would be no asphalt, but that gold would pave the way. So they lied and deceived the public. There was no transparency in pre-accession negotiations, there was no idea what was signed around agriculture, we were supposed to arrest, locate, transfer our generals who defended our country. We should have given up on the economic belt. We didn't have a sovereign concept and we didn't, we submitted complete sovereignty to entering the European Union. These interesting lobbys that inside Croatian society favor the import lobby, the banking lobby, and they basically exploited and manipulated the people. And when they saw that they would not enter the European Union under the current law and the Constitution, that 50 plus 1 voters should come out, they went illegally and counter-constitutionally to deceive the people, breaking the Constitution for which we swear, in the year of the elections, i.e. When voting for entry into the European Union, they changed the constitution that 50 plus 1 voter should not go out, which is a fraud and what was a counter-resistant action. I am that we co-operate with the peoples, but we are not comfortable with the interesting lobbys of any banking, any economic, economic, any lobby. That's what I was saying then, that's what I'm saying right now. The Croatian state must have its sovereign policy within Europe because we are in Europe, we cannot escape from Europe, but there is no way that the servants and the likes and listeners of Brussels officials whose only interest is to destroy what little we have. And the results are visible, two-thirds of Croatia are empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59854	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59855	Comrade Bulj, I will refer to this section mentioned by you and my colleague Lalovac in 2014. I am personally against any boast, and the fact that the chefs of the kitchen were mentioned, etc. Well, I find it a little strange that a colleague of Lalovac from that period did not influence the amendment of the CNB and the State Audit Office itself. So if such things were happening then they would be kept long before they were accounted for. I personally think and say, business should be controlled in any case and what is very important, therefore, that it should be within the framework of normal business or, without boasting on any side and we must take care of it, but no institution can interfere with the monetary system in the independence of the monetary system, therefore, that politics affects anything of this type is what would not be good. And there were institutions and there were those that were supposed to be at that time and now and now and always control and issue notes and everything else that was going on in that sector. So, it's not just the Croatian National Bank, it's indirect, and there are those who were supposed to control it directly and it shouldn't have happened, so here's the case where we have a big system. Therefore, neither small nor large systems are authorized to issue any securities that cannot be charged in quality. So when we talk about both small and large systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59856	I thank my colleague, Peric. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59857	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, I would agree with you that here these amendments of the law do not affect independence and monetary policy it is visible that we here are the only thing we are looking for, the revision, the state audit that business as well as other institutions. Of course, the State Audit can neither have qualifications nor want to affect monetary policy. We are talking about business audits, competitions, ways of receiving, ways of determining wage coefficients that are obviously huge, in the media it turns out that they are bigger than the Presidents of the Republic, the Prime Minister, much bigger, they set their own wages, the cost of money, food and other ways. So why wouldn't the Croatian National Bank have the same, only to ask this question by this law, as well as other institutions? By not interfering with this law in monetary policy, here at no time does not enter monetary policy unless it is necessary to, and this is to be discussed, to be the governor's report on certain financial aspects, monetary policy and so on. That would be correct of him otherwise if he spoke of it in front of parliamentary deputies at least twice a year. It's minimal to talk to the public. I believe, and I believe that all together, regardless of who the opposition is, who is the government, you mentioned to your colleague Lalvoca, I agree that this contest came out at the time of them, they couldn't influence, at the time of the rule of the SDP, I'm sorry that you must... turn your backs you can rule 120 years with such opposition, we're talking about one law and no opponents about this case except a few colleagues of the Living Wall, Mr Lovrinovic and us 5, 6 of the Bridge and you as a representative of the government, ruling majority. I am saying that here is the seriousness of this law and this is one small step, I believe that we will make it where we simply give the Parliament what it should be, the place of decision, the place where it is reported, and the Croatian National Bank to have the same relations with the State Audit as with other institutions. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59858	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59859	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bulj, you have repeatedly stressed that the central Croatian National Bank must be independent in its action. That's what we agree on. After I see he has a debate and a colleague, Lovrinović, I hope he will say something on the subject too. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the euro zone is a political decision. What is very important at the moment, which will be the course when Croatia enters the euro zone. At what rate will the kuna be replaced from the euro? That's very important. And you know who will make that decision? Among other Croatian National Banks. So, despite its independence, the Croatian National Bank will make certain political decisions. She'll bring along according to the government. We don't know what course it's going to be. I don't know if you'll know when, in what time you'll know before making your own decision. But that course, or that decision, if it's in line with market conditions, will be fine, if someone can't be Eldorado for the acquisition of wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59860	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59861	Comrade Žagar, yes, you're right, my colleague Lovrinović will go after us, have an individual discussion and we certainly need to hear things from him because man is an expert. A man's been dealing with this for many years. In fact, teaching at the university, he raised a number of students. Perhaps even some in the Croatian National Bank are now employees to whom the professor taught. So instead of looking for master bosses, perhaps they should have talked from the Croatian National Bank to a professor and similar with different attitudes. But no. They didn't talk to the professor at the time, but they continued to call competitions about the master boss. That's why we need a state audit. And experts, Professor Lovrinović or I don't know who they would have had to have one joint team, and there's a governor's force, and not that the governor's options are being created in perspectives, and that's how it affects the politics of the monetary Republic of Croatia because under pressure when the governor is under pressure either by media or by any pranks that were made after he didn't agree to be in one project he mentioned yesterday, so that's influence, it's direct pressure on the governor. Rohatinski said yesterday that he was pressured politically by the media, from a group of people he listed by Mr. Karamark, Kujundzic and others, Ivica Todorovic, who was essentially the head of the organisation later took over certain parties. That's what he said yesterday. It's a blow, and this law doesn't. This law is only a small step that the Croatian Parliament and the Body of State Audit have to do the same work that works on other institutions, nothing else. It is minimal that at all, the Croatian National Bank has a Croatian bank ahead of it. Otherwise, who knows whose it is? If we don't allow this, everyone is after the Croatian people. This is the minimum minimum. He doesn't get into anything except that we have government audit reports here to discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59862	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. I'm setting a break by 5:30. Thank you very much. ANNIGHT IN 17.20 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 5:30 A.M.]] Next, a respected colleague, Ivan Lovrinovic, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I will immediately say at the beginning that this proposal amending the Law on the Croatian People's Bank Party Let's change Croatia's support. The public also remembers that I entered politics because such a monetary system that destroys the economy is one of the biggest problems for the Croatian economy and the state, and I am really going to end up here fighting it, that is, for a new monetary system. You remember when I was in the Bridge that I forced this topic to change the Law on the Croatian National Bank and I am glad today, although we are in two parties that the Bridge is back on the agenda and therefore here with some reflections I see that constructive proposals are and I will try to constructively contribute to this law and its improvement. You see colleagues and colleagues, of all the central banks in the European Union we know, the Croatian National Bank was the least concerned about the growth of gross domestic development product and the reduction of unemployment. Since 2008, the central bank of a member of the European Union in epic proportions has been incentivising monetary credit policy with interest rates close to zero, it has been encouraging the withdrawal from recession and the crisis that has affected the country. On the other hand, in Croatia there was a completely different situation, interest rates remained at the same level as if nothing had happened. The second important question, therefore, was not approached in this respect either by a millimeter according to the practice of the European Central Bank, and is filled with the mouth of all the European Union and the European Central Bank. When we talk about transparency, it is already mentioned here that the Croatian National Bank is the least transparent central bank in the European Union and that is the conclusion of the study by the Zagreb Economic Institute. The question has been raised here and every little question is raised, so here you have now made three changes, you want three changes to the CNB Act, but you don't have the opinion of the European Central Bank. That's not true. The opinion of the European Central Bank exists because the procedure for the CNB law has already been requested and the opinion of the European Central Bank exists. So it's not a condition and the government either forgot or didn't read what it was about. What's important here to say? That opinion is negative we know it. However, the opinion of the European Central Bank does not oblige this Assembly or representatives, because this is not about the Directive. It's an opinion. However, our listeners see them from Brussels, from Frankfurt as a directive, so when someone moves their eyebrows a little bit out of Brussels, Frankfurt here jumps off a chair and asks if there's anything else to do. When did you hear that the prime minister of the Croatian government criticized the Croatian National Bank or when you said he was talking about high interest rates, bad phenomena in the monetary sphere? No, I don't. It's all about the Ministry of Finance, about fiscal policy. What was the proposer of this law doing here? Three simple things are important, but it's a minimum of minimums already been said by someone. What are you looking for? State audit is required. Well, my people, so we see what a mess is on the market, which means that commercial audit, I don't want to say that everything is black and white and everything is bad, but in this case I want to say next, the Croatian National Bank is the only state institution not supervised by the state audit. That's just amazing. For these very reasons, the state audit must be allowed to perform a revision of the Croatian National Bank. I don't know why the Government has so much fear in the Croatian People's Bank since the mention of the word state audit, I don't understand it. And you see, now that responsibility for the missed monetary policy needs to be explored, in the case of the Swiss franc, the Austrian savings credit union, what did the Croatian National Bank do? She started a big story about the euro to distract herself from her responsibility for major, huge failures. I would like to say this, for 20 years the Croatian National Bank has obstructed sovereignty and pushed the kuna into a corner. What else does the proposer want with these three demands? It requests that the position of the Croatian National Bank Council be revised for a term of office not more than two times. It's the only change. But you see, that's not enough. I suggest that the advice is composed in a way that the second part, means one part of the advice makes independent experts respected from the academic community in Croatia. Look, it was and from the beginning means until 10 years ago it was. Even in the former Yugoslavia, such practice. But you see, that's how it is now. What do we have today? We have a situation that the leadership of the Croatian National Bank at the same time makes the Council of the Croatian National Bank. So these people who run the Croatian National Bank, they advise themselves. This is simply abnormal, unacceptable and what is best is not the practice of the member states of the European Union or the euro area. They have mixed composition means the advice of their central banks. What else do you say about a system like this? If I didn't talk about it, you were talking about how they have two restaurants out there, I'm not going to get into that detail, but I would stress the human policy of how it's being run. You in the CNB don't have an internal public tender, but it's named there about a hundred people, I repeat, by decree of the governor. It is an unprecedented clientelem and there is no competition and competence, competition within the institution. In this context, major changes should be made. Here it is said that independence does not mean irresponsibility. For 20 years there's been propaganda about the National Bank that's been paid through the media, that it's a sacred cow, that no one can question anything, let alone monetary policy, and that's a large number of people get into the head, I can see for some of you. Therefore, they can destroy the economy and society with one monetary policy as it has been for the past 20 years, but someone says to the office but it must be an independent institution. Gentlemen, I repeat, independence does not mean irresponsibility. What else am I sorry there are no amendments to this law? As you know, there is no point in the law of the article that regulates how the governor of the CNB-s is resolved unless he steps down himself. Secondly, the law of the existing doesn't know who owns the CNB, it's fragrant. It says in one article that 2.5 billion based capital has been paid but does not say who paid it. So, tomorrow someone can relativize and the word "people" is not yours, this isn't owned by the Republic of Croatia. You could talk about this a lot more, but there will be opportunities because I expect that two, three weeks from now, there will be a proposal to amend the CNB Act, which has been submitted by the party We change Croatia, we have expanded it, but that is why I advocate and we have adopted these three proposals that we have originally agreed on, and that is why we have to fight. So we need to make the CNB both Croatian and national and bank, that it is in a function of promoting development, that the interest rates are as low as in EU countries. Notorious is lies or ignorance, and of some people who know and lie to the CNB and that we can't have low interest rates. Anything related to the kuna and the domestic market can be determined by the central bank by the interest rates it wants. However, I repeat what I have said several times, for 20 years the CNB has not already approved the banks' loans in kuna so that they can continue to lend to the economy and citizens. In this context, it is necessary to increase the responsibility and to push for monetary reform in order to make the necessary changes for the CNB to be in service of both the Croatian economy and the citizens themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59865	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for this debate. Next, a respected colleague, Branimir Bunjac, applied for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59866	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This law, proposed by the Independent Lists Bridge, is necessary, it is good for reasons because the revision in the CNB is really necessary, necessary. As Lovrinović said here, the bank not only needs to be audited but it needs a much wider supervision because it has long since been neither Croatian nor national or bank. It is not for the simple reason that the people do not decide how the bank will work but the bank is in private hands. Croatia is not for reasons because those who decide that the bank will work do not live in Croatia but live abroad. The bank is not because it does not fulfil its money creation function but has the function of the exchange office or of turning the euro into kuna after external borrowing. I would like to warn in this debate about some illogicalities that would really require this Croatian revision to enter the National Bank. Take a look, for example. The situation with Governor Vujcic who told the public on TV that he doesn't know how much he makes, he doesn't know that, he has no idea. And at the same time you have his property card posted on the Internet where he wrote down all his receipts. So I don't understand black on white writing all my receipts, how is it possible that he claims he doesn't know how much he earns? And then when you look at his property card you really have to wonder about some things that are at least weird. So this man makes about 700 thousand kuna a year net means some 100,000 euros, at the rate of salary of about 470,000 kuna and another 250 thousand kuna of some other revenue on some of these tips, gives lectures, etc. So a man who makes 750 thousand kunas has no apartment, no house, no savings and drives a wife's Citroen C3 from 2003. Tell me, Your Honor, do you really believe that this is true? So a man who makes $700,000 a year doesn't have any savings, he doesn't have anything on the bill. So it turns out that all the funds he receives a month and receives some of the 50 or even more thousands of kunas he spends it all before the next salary. So what's he spending so much money on? If he had never decided to solve the housing issue, he had not decided to buy a better car than 13 years old, a small car that is essentially driven by average Croatian citizens who work perhaps by 5,6,000 kuna per month, ten times less. It's really unusual. He has, he states in his property card that he has 460 kuna shares and now watch out, if the governor needs to list shares worth 460 kunas how then, isn't there nothing, isn't there no art painting, isn't there a clock, isn't there anything worth at least some amount. It's really unusual. And on the other hand, you have his deputy, Mr. Vice Governor Dink, Mr. Odak Dark, I think that's what it's called, which has 37 million kuna worth of property. So his deputy with a lower salary, with lower incomes he has 37 million kunas of which 17 million cash savings. And there's a few million more in the stock, and there's more than 10 million in real estate. He even has a private plane. And now let's do it with that logic. That gentleman his vice governor, deputy for 500 000 kuna a year. I suppose some directors pay, I suppose, for these properties must have some expenses, so maintaining the cold drive, as we might say. He's got to eat something. He's got to wear something. So it's impossible for all 500 thousand kunas to save. And that in 10 years, he has received 5 million kunas, and he has the savings and the property worth 37 million. So where did it come from? How can he have such a disproportionate income and property? And on the other hand, the governor who's his superior has even higher incomes, and he doesn't have any kuna savings, he doesn't have any real estate, no car, no watch, none of what I've quoted, etc. So when you compare those two property cards, you already have a healthy logic to say wait, there's something wrong. This is the first thing, it has seven times as much property as its receipts, and the second one has huge receipts and has absolutely no assets. I'd like to have that vice governor tell me and all the citizens how it's possible to have property seven times bigger than my income, to guide us what spells these are, what financial procedures we have to have and how we have to do business and behave I don't know in the financial world so we can make such profits. And then I hear from the other day from former Governor Rohatinski, watch what he says. He says I had a salary of 120,000 in Agrokor, and then I went to the CNB to pay 30 grand. Now, you tell me who in this world would trade a salary of 1200,000 for 30 grand? Would you gentlemen like to trade in your 16,000 MPs for a $4,000 job now? Would you like to switch? No, it wouldn't have occurred to you if I didn't know what that job was offering you wouldn't have. No one would want four times as much pay as he currently has, and he's supposed to be 120,000... I doubt it, I personally doubt that he has earned a lot more in the CNB than was shown, but we cannot force it out because our Croatian state does not have the right to carry out an audit or any other supervision of the Croatian National Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, I believe that if the bank is really Croatian, if it is national, if it is subordinated to the Croatian Parliament, then the Croatian State has the right to enter the Croatian National Bank, examine its entire business. I couldn't go into so much detail right now, but I'm just saying, here's an example for citizens to think about and, of course, for the reasons that a law like this should be passed. And on the other hand, I can say on my own personal behalf, in the name of the Living Wall Club, that we will certainly support this law, although on the other hand we seriously suspect that the ruling majority has the intention of supporting this law, because we see that they have been very close to the current governor, that fairy tales of some introduction of the euro are telling us some very good idea that this is fiction. But they do so to entertain the public in such a way as to draw attention from other problems, while at the same time allowing the same governor to have his second term, which will soon, therefore, be his turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59867	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc. We move on to the closing word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go. Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the final word of the respected colleague Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59868	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. I thank you for having the tenacity to stay on Friday afternoons to say so, and that this debate that we have been having in the good part, we can also constructively pass on to some future actions. What I would say, so there were certain proposals, there was goodwill on the side and the ruling ones, and I would suggest that there be one meeting to invite representatives of the Ministry of Finance. We can also see if, within your board, what we do as chairman, then at this joint meeting, we can see if we can make a solution from this proposal that we have sent to the procedure, which will be acceptable to us as a proposing, and finally get support in this first reading. Then maybe we'll get time for some extra steps that would lead to the final proposal and the adoption of this. I want to thank all those who will be with all those and families of the victims by their presence in the town of Vukovar tomorrow, along with Croatian defenders, so that they are proudly marked in the memory column of one of the most important events in the recent Croatian history. And to those of you who will not be with us in Vukovar, keep us in mind because I think it is a day when we really have, to say one unity and agreement and hope that in this spirit and in the future work of both this institution and the Croatian state we will be able to improve the situation and then not only this law but also any other proposal will be truly to the pride of all of us and our citizens, especially those who have given their lives for Croatia and their families who expect this sacrifice to create better conditions in one of their lives that we all want together to be worthy of and ultimately to imitate for all of us here who decide in the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59869	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Mr Tomislav Panenic's representative for the explanation of the proposal for this law. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. We continue the plenary session on 22 November 2017 at 9.30 a.m. The proposal for a state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and the 2019 and 2020 projections. Thank you again for the debate, for your participation. Enjoy the rest of the day, happy journey to the city hero Vukovar or in Škabrnje, if anyone goes to Skabrnj, may God protect you, live. The session was interrupted at 17.54 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-17-0.u59870	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Croatian National Bank, first reading, P.Z. 194. The promoter is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank is not adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 97 votes for and 21 votes against, draws conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
