ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u55702	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a break because of the catastrophic situation in traffic security.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u55703	Sure, you'll get a break after we're done with the replicas. Here's your colleague, Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u55705	Dear Mr. President, again on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, I am looking for a break because of the catastrophic situation in traffic and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I believe you must give it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u55706	I'll give you a break, but I want you to do the replicas. We have to finish this part and then you'll get a break. I'm hoping we can get back to work. The first is now a break and a colleague of Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u55708	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I hope we've all calmed down together and the tensions have fallen. And here, I would like to talk about traffic safety, offered by certain events that have been happening on Croatian roads for a long time and about the chaos that governs right in the situation where lives are lost and when we all talk about demographics, about the fall of birth, that we are getting less and less. Where we could preserve the lives of Croatian citizens, we do nothing, or almost nothing. I would like to warn, i.e. I would like to say that we as HSS will very quickly submit a proposal to amend the law so as not to invent warm water, so as not to do any Croatian model like this in our case, but to look at which countries in Europe or in the world have the best resolved sanctions for traffic offences. And I think the whole calming situation, the mess, the chaos in our society could start right out of traffic. And if we were all together in one big chaos, she showed today's session, that is, the current course of the session that I hope will change and all of that is, of course, the reason why the ruling party doesn't want to talk about what's the topic, not just today, but a lot of the past months, which is, of course, Agrokor. And this is the situation where the ruling party wants to cover up and falsify the past and history that I and all those older than me remember very well. A hundred times repeated lie becomes true. So I also had the opportunity to hear from many colleagues from the HDZ, from their partner parties that there was privatisation that began during Ante Markovic and Yugoslavia, which is certainly not true. The Privatization Model, which is now escalating, or escalating with what is happening in Agrokor, was designed by HDZ, designed by Franjo Tudjman and by the whole team of which has moved most of them from the Union of Communists and who have inherited sinocuras, directorial sites, participated in the privatisation of the HDZ model, which caused not only by the loss of nearly a million inhabitants in the past 27 years in our homeland but by the total destruction of complete Croatian production or almost complete, by crossing everything that was owned by RH 1/1, into the hands of privates, into the hands of HDZ tycoons, of which is the most famous of which everyone, well, knows very well, very well, very well, by Ivica Todorovic. Where exactly and how it broke between Todorovic and their political, political mentors from HDZ, we wanted the entire Croatian public to know exactly at the meetings of the Assembly's Investigation Commission that went great, where witnesses deliberately or by chance presented the real truth as Mr. Rohatinski said where Mr. Grmoja, Mr. Milenić and Mr. Maras had very, very clear discussions, very clear messages. And the moment HDZ saw where it all went together, it led to the end of the mask and that they couldn't lie, especially the younger ones who didn't remember it. At that point, HDZ decided that the commission had ended and self-initiatedly avoided playing slalom between the law and the law abolished the parliamentary commission. It is a shame, it is a great shame but I am sure that people will recognize it and that all of us from opposition parties will continue to work on the fact that 100 times the repeated lie becomes true and that nothing that is related to the Croatian privatisation robbery can be tied up and must never be tied in history to any other party other than HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u55753	Now Mr. Pernar was looking for a word before, that's what Mr. Jandrokovic told me to remind you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u55754	Can I have five minutes? Thank you. ... I'd like it right away if I can. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The reason is the credit situation, 400 million loans almost paid by the state to Agrokor directly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u55755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u55756	Dear ladies and gentlemen. HBOR made a precedent by giving Christmas credit to Agrokor. In general, the HBOR does not function as a business bank, but the HBOR gives funds to business banks that they then continue to credit. It means that HBOR gave credit to Agrokor and that the HBOR gave credit to the business bank, that the business bank further forwarded the credit to Agrokor then all the risks would be at the business bank. But what happened? It happened that the CNB de facto told the business banks no longer to lend Agrokor, Agrokor is not a credit rating. And then HBOR skipped business banks and decided to give a direct credit to Agrokor, although he was aware, not in the sense that someone else told him that, but HBOR's own analysts said that from 1 to 10 if 1 is the best, and 10 is the worst, that Agrokor is currently around 8. So it's close to a total elephant and it's basically not creditworthy. And what happened? Then Agrokor got the loan actually without any guarantees that would never be returned. And when Minister Maric says they saved something, I don't know how much 3% on interest or 2% or 1%, maybe they are. But on the other hand, HBOR's money, or state money, was thrown into the wind. They gave 400 million, where's it coming from? Out of nowhere. So only the expenditures on one side, they switched to the other. State money still evaporates into the air. As for Zdravko Marić's thesis, the deficit is reduced, we have surpluses, etc. It's all one big joke. Because in the current system where the money is credited, the debt can only be recovered by the outflow of liquidity from the constitution. It is as if in the Croatian monetary system, you have, say, 300 billion kuna and now you simply get 100 billion kunas out of the financial system and with these 100 billion hypothetically settle foreign creditors. Okay, you cut your debt, and what happened on the internal market? What happened? Kunska's homeless, the money's gone. So you move money out of domestic circulation, you give out to foreign creditors, and there's a collapse in the internal system. People are without a kuna in their pockets, digging through the trash, etc. You have a record situation of unreturned loans to legal persons. Get the CNB after the breakdown of Agrokor to analyze. Even before the break-in of Agrokor, you know how the balance was. Every third loan, to business entities was non-paymentable. Are you aware of the credit crisis? By breaking Agrokora, we go from the sphere, every third, or every third kuna, to a minimum of each other's crown. So half of all loans given to legal persons, i.e. companies, can't go back. And how someone can talk about economic growth, GDP growth and whatnot. Based on what? On what, ladies and gentlemen? How? So imagine that in another economy half of all legal entities can't repay their debts. Well, that would be the alarm sign. They say only this year 50,000 citizens have gone to Germany from Croatia. Hey, guys, you know what that means. So people disappear from our country. Every day the citizens are getting smaller. There are no days for people to write me not to leave Croatia. And what's the success for the finance minister? He says we cut the debt. And what's the price of that debt? Well, she tried Bolivia her time and Peru, that's what I'm saying... in one way that you'd say work for the World Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They went back internally, i.e. external debt, so the internal liquidity broke out. But they did it by hyperinflation, they took the country into hyperinflation. They did what the Wamar Germany did. And the Croatian government is not going into hyperinflation, it is not going to print money without any cover, so with this money it pays back the debt, but simply the existing money that is worth sending out the country. And that's why we're out of kunas in our pocket. That's why there's no money. That's why she's broke. And then since there's no money, the question is, where will the loans be returned from? Out of nowhere, there's no such thing as money. The state simply took the funds to the private sector and gave everything to foreign creditors, and domestic companies will fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u55757	Thank you, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59871	Now we will announce only the first item of the agenda and then there will be pauses. So today we will discuss the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and a projection for 2019 and 2020. And I propose that we also have a united discussion and that we also discuss in this context the Final Bill on the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018, second reading, P.Z. No. 220. I hope that's what we agree on and there's no dispute about it. Well, now I see your hands are in the air. I thank all who participated in these discussions after the break and now we are moving on to today's agenda as I said, a united debate: - Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and projection for 2019 and 2020 and - Final proposal Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018, second reading, P.Z. Number 220 So I need to read an introductoryly a little longer text, just ask your attention. Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and projection for 2019 and 2020 with proposals for the financial plans of extra budget users for 2018 and projection of plans for 2019 and 2020: - Croatian Waters - Croatian Roads - Centre for the restructuring and sale - Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund - State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks - Croatian Institute for Health Insurance Proposal for amending and supplementing the state budget and financial plans of extra- budget users for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. consolidated explanation of the proposals for amending and supplementing the national budget of the Republic of Croatia and the proposals for the financial plans of non-profit users for 2018. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Article 37 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Budget law and Article 211 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When adopting a State budget, the provisions of Articles 211 and 212 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Agriculture, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Space and Construction, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projection. During the debate on the proposal for a state budget and projection, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal for a state budget and projection may be submitted provided that other expenditure and expenditure are reduced simultaneously in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above must not be burdened by the budgetary stock or by the burden of additional borrowing with which I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Act will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. As regards the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget, the applicant is also the Government under Article 85. The Constitution and Article 211 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading and amendments can also be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. I would now ask the Prime Minister to further explain the proposal for a state budget. Prime Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59873	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Allow me to present today's presentation of the state budget for 2018 in agreement with the Minister of Finance on two occasions, first I will talk about the general frameworks and will then speak very closely to Minister Maric. The proposal for a State budget for 2018 as well as a projection for 2019 and 2020 constitute a strategic act of the State which sets out the Government Programme and determines how it manages state resources. The draft budget, which is before you, maintains a clear government policy based on sustainable public finances in order not to spend more than we have and to reduce public debt. That is why the draft budget is realistic. The provision of funds for the implementation of the Government's programme and the effective operation of public services, economic, demographic and social programmes is contained in all aspects of this proposal. It is also clear that the government of the Republic of Croatia continues with the tax discharge of both citizens and entrepreneurs. The Republic of Croatia is in the upward path, this shows a series of favourable macroeconomic indicators movements. Thus, GDP recorded real annual growth of 2.7% in the first half of this year and in the rest of the year we expect it to accelerate. We also note the growth of industrial production, transport, retail trade, construction and tourism. The number of registered unemployed is at the lowest levels since statistical monitoring and it is particularly important to increase the employment rate. Inflation is low and stable, and economic mood indicators exceeded the pre-crisis level in 2008. In the medium term, we expect a continuation of positive economic activity in the domestic economy. We expect that this year's growth will be 3.2%, these are not only our estimates but exactly the same assessment the European Commission has recently given. We are making economic growth on a healthy basis. If we compare current economic growth with pre-crisis growth, we can see that there has been a change in its structure. In pre-crisis years ago, it was primarily based on domestic demand growth, foreign borrowing financing, while growth is now more balanced, with a higher share of exports, goods and services, while reducing external imbalances. Moreover, economic movements in the international environment and our most important traders and partners are extremely favourable. And it is expected to continue during the period ahead. We must therefore use these favourable impulses from domestic and international environments to make our economic growth stable and sustainable. To further reduce excessive macroeconomic imbalances and ensure continued employment and job creation. Since the beginning of the government's mandate, we are aware that fiscal sustainability is a prerequisite for macroeconomic stability and for promoting economic growth. This is also supported by fiscal indicators of the budget deficit and public debt, which currently record the historical lowest levels. Thus, in 2016, the budget deficit was reduced to 0.9% of GDP and public debt to 82.9% of GDP, which places Croatia in the ranking countries with the largest annual reduced share of public debt in GDP. The fiscal results in 2017 are even better than expected, to which it certainly contributed, tax reform, which acted to increase the available income of the population and disbursement of the economy. We cut taxes, the overall profit tax rate was reduced from 20 to 18, or to 12 for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Another 560,000 citizens have been exempt from paying income taxes, and the total tax burden on income has been reduced by around 1.5 billion kuna. The tax system today is simpler, more passing and fairer than at the beginning of our mandate. All this has also affected the increase in the personal consumption of employees and investments, and thus the revenues of the state budget. Accordingly, we plan that the deficit of the general budget will drop to 0.6% of GDP in 2017. In addition, the trend of a reduction in public debt has continued, an indication of the responsible management of public finances, creating additional foundations to strengthen fiscal sustainability and to permanently reduce debt burdens. In the next period, we will continue to reduce the budget deficit and the share of public debt through careful implementation of smart fiscal consolidation, which will not jeopardise the foundations for growth. The 2018 budget with projections for 2019 and 2020 shall be based precisely on those principles. We strengthen the fiscal capacity of local self-government, and we will more fairly distribute income tax, a new law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Also, our further steps will be aimed at controlling the expenditure side of the budget, exploiting any surplus income compared to those planned in the first row to reduce public debt deficits, and for further tax discharge. A good example was the rebalancing you adopted a few days ago. The future side of the budget is based on the growth of economic activity, taking into account the effects and tax reforms and further discharge, which is planned to be implemented by the end of the example by 2018, for example, we are now increasing the threshold for entering the VAT system to 300,000 kuna, which was one of our pre-election promises. The contribution to increasing revenue in the coming period is also expected from the withdrawal of funds from European funds that will focus on different development and infrastructure projects and research and innovation activities. This year, we announced as much as 2.2 billion euros worth of tendering, bringing the total amount of tenders made to 5 billion euros, which 47% of the total amount of funds allocated in this financial perspective by 2020 alone in the last 8 months of this year has agreed more European funds than in the previous 3 years, making European funds one of the key instruments for equal regional development and reducing inequality that we talked about yesterday at the 3rd session of the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem held in Slavonski Brod. We therefore expect that one of the biggest budget revenues will be from increasing the absorption of funds by almost 24%. All this proves a significant acceleration of funds, on which the Ministry of Regional Development has a special task as a coordinating body to encourage other ministries in this direction. At the same time the expenditure of the foreign budget is planned on 133 billion kuna, it remains at the level of economic guidelines, which is another confirmation of a responsible approach. The expenditure will be determined by further strengthening fiscal sustainability, with the implementation of measures, in order to promote development and adequate care for all layers of the population in Croatia. She most mirrored the priorities of the government's programme. Particular attention will be paid to the country's demographic revitalisation. There is a significant increase in birth and parental support, and by July 1st, a circle of children's allowances will be extended to an additional 100,000 children. We co-finance housing loans for young people to help resolve the housing issue of staying and starting a family in Croatia. We are running an active employment policy, involving around 50,000 people this year and providing over 2 billion kuna for employment, especially young people, as well as educated and training for the unemployed. We take care of social inclusion, with particular emphasis on caring for the most needed and pensioners, persons with disabilities. Each month we allocate 3 billion kuna for pensions, and this year more than 1.2 million pensioners received 2,75% higher pensions, which is in line with our current economic opportunities and the biggest harmonisation of pensions since 2008. This year's salary increase, teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses, police officers and other civil servants is also shown in the budget for next year. Modernisation of education, promotion of innovation, is a strategic issue of the Croatian future, which is why we increase the allocations for science and education by 4.7% compared to adopted rebalancing. We're building a modern and sustainable health system. For healthcare, we will allocate 15.3% more than on the original budget this year. A total of $11 and a half billion, and by rebalancing the Ministry of Health, we directed one full 160 billion kuna of which 870 million to settle the debts of state and county hospitals. As a member of the North Atlantic Union and the EU and taking account of global security challenges, we ensure further development of a modern, comprehensive and effective system of Homeland Security and Modernisation of the Armed Forces. This includes the acquisition of new fighter aircraft, for which the largest possible consensus of all key stakeholders in Croatia has been achieved. The most responsible for the defence and freedom of Croatia and Croatian defenders as well as members of their families provide adequate care and dignity, rural development measures, and co-financing of projects, structural and cohesion funds, and the development of effective human potentials is 1.1 billion kuna. The cost of public debt financing is lower by as much as 716 million kunas, therefore due to a very effective interest reduction. Here was a good example of why we had that debate Friday about the government's trust, so that our representatives could say a week after that that the political situation in Croatia was stable and that we did the re-financing of the road debt at the most favourable interest and the loan handle was much more favourable than the billions and 300 million that came on the charge. Taking into account the overall fiscal developments described both in revenue and in the budget, a further reduction in the deficit of the general budget to 0.5% of GDP in 2018 is expected. The balance is planned in 2019, while a surplus of 0.8% of GDP is planned in 2020. At the same time, it is expected to reduce the share of public debt in GDP to 76.6 in 2018 to 73.4 in 2019 and finally 69.5% in 2020. This would meet the requirements of the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact, an agreement by EU Member States on a responsible fiscal policy. The budget is also in line with our plan for the introduction of the euro, is an appropriate phase of the economic cycle in which we are located, and plans to further strengthen the Croatian economy. This brings us closer to meeting all the conditions for the introduction of the euro as a currency in Croatia with numerous advantages for our citizens and entrepreneurs, and in line with the strategy and the document we presented several weeks ago, which should be triggered by an open, reasoned public debate on this subject. It is also our strategic goal to enter the Schengen area. This is where we used a series of funds already located, and we continue to consolidate our activities to strengthen EU external border control, which will also be the external borders of the Schengen area in the future. The achievements achieved in the area of public finances have already been recognised by the relevant international institutions. In June of this year, the EU Council decided on Croatia's exit from the excessive budget deficit procedure. All three leading global rating agencies Fitch, Mudis and Standard and Purs have improved the outlook of Croatia's credit rating. In late September this year, the SNP raised its outlook on positive economic trends. In doing so, we received a clear message that the next step will be to raise a credit rating, so we are going towards an investment rating if the economic recovery continues, and the government is constantly going towards implementing structural reforms and consolidation of public finances. I was already talking about the achievements of the finance minister last week in London, Munich, Frankfurt, Milan and Amsterdam. In conclusion, I would like to say that in the year ahead, our goal will be to address the needs of Croatian people, to launch necessary changes in order to raise the productivity of the domestic economy and to move closer to the standard of living in other EU Member States. Therefore, we will continue to implement the National Reform Programme through further reduction of non-taxable duties, and we will carry out further decommissioning by means of measures relating to the business environment, simplify existing regulatory requirements, reduce the costs of removing barriers by entering certain sectors, and prevent new administrative burdens from being introduced. All these measures will strengthen the domestic economy with a view to strengthening resilience and competitiveness. With this draft budget, the government wants to continue implementing its programme and to meet the expectations of all Croatian people. I would now ask Minister Maric to further elaborate the draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59874	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I will go a little deeper into the very core and individual data and items of the proposal for the state budget of extra budget users for the eighteenth and projections for the nineteenth and twentieth. First of all, it should be said that the budget for next year was based on projections of economic growth of 2.9%. The consumer price index or inflation rate of around 1 and a half percent and all of these aggregates on the spending side, both expenditure and GDP revenue, have been applied naturally in creating the revenue side of the budget. The future side of the budget is planned for 2018, amounting to €129 billion, which represents 6.1% of the increase compared to the old plan in 2017 and 5.4%, respectively, compared to the net voted budget rebalance for 2017. When we enter the structure a little more detail should be said immediately and focus primarily in the first part on tax revenues, total tax revenues are also planned for projections of 3.4% compared to the old plan and 0.3%, respectively, compared to the new plan or rebalancing. We are looking at individual breaks, the single largest item is the added value tax, which, according to our projections in 2018, is planned to amount to €49.6 billion, taking into account the expected movement of available income, personal consumption, and everything that we have drawn out among other things and tax reform. As regards specific taxes and excise duties, 15.4 billion kuna is projected, all in line with macroeconomic projections, but with changes that took place in the excise system. If you soon vote the Law on the financing of the unit of local (regional) and regional self-government, and I think we all have a lot of reasons to believe that this will happen in the next days in the context of the second reading then I can say with great and greatest certainty that we will hit one item of the revenue side of the budget in June, and this will be income from the income tax of the state budget, as it is now standing in this proposal the amount of zero kuna is planned. Therefore, the total amount of income tax revenue is left to local (regional) and regional self-government units. The profit tax is planned at 8.3 billion kuna, which is a 16.1% increase compared to the old plan. However, taking into account that in the rebalancing of the 2017 budget, we have just found that the mainly profit tax was the single item which was most achieved or proved much better than the original forecasts mainly from the perspective of tax reform, this is good news because we in tax reform have reduced the overall profit tax rate from 20 to 18, respectively, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with a turnover of up to three million kuna to 12%. Compared to the new plan, it's a 1.7% increase. Contributions are planned to amount to €24.3 billion as an item that certainly also in the budget rebalancing and in the context of our debate has been well discussed, will be believed and are today planned at 13.8 billion kuna, which is an increase of 23.5% compared to the old plan and almost 50% relative to the rebalancing. Other revenues of HRK 14.9 billion, these are proceeds from assets, own dedicated revenues from budget users, revenues from HZZO state hospitals and ultimately revenues from non-financial assets planned for sale in the amount of €800 million, most of which are sold by construction facilities, facilities and equipment owned by state and stock sales revenues. As regards the expenditure side of the state budget, the total expenditures are planned at EUR 133.3 billion, which is compared to the old plan in 2017, what you see in the draft budget is an increase of five billion kuna compared to the rebalancing of 2017. 6.6 billion kuna more. I must immediately say one very important thing, so this figure and the total comparison should be broken down into two basic sources of the expenditure side of the budget. So the part that creates the deficit that creates the deficit and affects which is financed by so-called. General sources and receipts have been increased in the amount of €472 million. All that stopped is a deficit neutral and this increase comes as a result of the expected better and higher use of European funds and its own and dedicated revenues. As far as the expenditures are concerned, it costs 27.9 billion kuna employees. They include the full application of amendments and additions to the collective contract for civil servants and temporary staff from December 2016 and also the Government’s decision during 2017 on the basis for public service wages. Material expenditures amounting to 13.2 billion kuna. The largest part of the increase concerns funding from own and dedicated funds or European funds. As a result, we come up with financial expenditures or interest, mostly mentioned by the Prime Minister among other things, so for next year they are planned at 9.9 billion kuna, so a continuation of the trend in interest reduction. I will tell you one thing here, so also last week's transaction issue of the euro bond to refinance the debt of the road sector that we represented to the Croatian public, and I can say now in the Croatian Parliament, so when you compare the amount of interest achieved from 2.75 for the period until 2030 and when you compare the average interest rate to that part of the debt paid and paid by the road sector, the minimum savings is 160 million kuna per year. I say minimally because the existing debt of the cesar sector is related to a variable interest, so with a base EURIBOR which is still in a negative zone for a good part of these loans at present. And in the years to come, mainly the next 12 to expect is a realistic assumption that these base interest rates will grow, and so will the total interest rate. With the issue of this euro bond, we fixed the interest annual coupon at 2.75 for the next 12 and a few years. When you add to this other transactions that we have made this year to refinance our commitments and the need for the state budget another international euro bond, two domestic bonds and one vault record. I'm not talking about all the other smaller volume of transactions, the total savings on the annual level alone amount to over 800 million kuna. In front of us is another month and ten days and I can tell you that in this field we will do some extra steps and definitely realize that the trend we started in 2016 continues significantly even more strongly in 2017, and according to projections we see it also below. Subsidies are planned to amount to 6.6 billion kuna, which is an increase of about 38.5 million kuna. We know that the majority of subsidies relate to direct payments in agriculture measures to regulate the agricultural products market. Aids are planned at 16.5 million kuna. The largest share and the largest increase of 915 million kuna refers to an increase in the transfer of HZZO of 500 million kuna and 137.7 million kuna for the transfer of sickness benefits. We also, of course, plan on our contribution to the EU budget on this item. Then we come up with the largest item of the state budget on the spending side, which is the compensation to citizens and households that are planned for 47.8 billion kuna, which is an increase of around 1.6 billion kuna compared to the old and 1.7, respectively, compared to the new plan for 2017. There is the biggest increase and the biggest reason for safe pensions and pension incomes. The total amount of billions and 420 million kunas higher than this year for several reasons. On one side we predict and plan two indexations next year, one spring we can call it one autumn. On the other hand, of course, we also have our projections together with the Croatian Pension Insurance and Resort Ministry on the movement of the number of pensioners and certain indicators from that part. The full year of implementation of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support is an increase of some 157 million kuna, as well as the implementation of the Law on Croatian Defence, i.e. everything envisaged for 2018 and one part of course is foreseen for 2019. As far as the other expenditures are concerned, they are planned at seven and a half billion kuna. Most of it was, in fact, the funding of European funds whether we were talking about rural development measures, whether we were talking about certain operational programmes of competitiveness, cohesion, or the development of effective human potentials. Finally, expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets is planned in the amount of 4 billion kuna, which is approximately on the trail of the same plan, the old plan 2017 and some 828 million kuna, respectively, compared to the rebalancing. There are the most significant investments in the Department of Defence, Health, Environmental Protection, and of course science and education. When we sum up all of this together, add up and subtract, so the result also according to this National Budget Plan for next year 2018 is the planned deficit of the state budget at 4.3 billion kuna. When we add to this the financial plans of these 6 extra budget users that are the subject of our debate today, when we add to them according to the ESA 2010 methodology and the complete local self-government, therefore complete all units of local and regional, or regional self-government, and all of those institutions of the general government, we reach the target level of the deficit of 2 billion kuna or 0.5% of the projected gross domestic product, which after two years is the historical lowest level of the deficits practically third year of continuity of the reduction of fiscal consolidation deficit. I will tell you here only in the remaining time for discussion that the financial expenditures mentioned earlier are 9.9 billion kuna. So still at about 3 percentage points of gross domestic product. From the perspective of the overall result, we can certainly conclude that the Republic of Croatia and public finances spend as much as they earn, or as much as they have. Viewed from the perspective of the so-called the primary balance when you subtract these figures from interest expenses you see that we are basically in the primary surplus of nearly 8 billion kuna, which is certainly one of the better results and with which we can certainly not only hope, but also deeply believe that the trend of reducing the share of public debt in the gross domestic product that started last year and continuing these continues in 2018 and in the years to come. I will just point out here that the trend and the result that we have achieved in these two years is twice as fast and stronger than reducing the share of the EU's public debt, and also twice as fast as the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact, which are forecasting for all countries that have a share of public debt of over 60%. And finally, allow me just a few words about, since the debate is united and the final draft law on the implementation of the state budget. Therefore, in accordance with the Budget Law, this act was also drawn up. The budget base remains at 3326 kuna. As far as foreign domestic market debt is concerned, it can be implemented in total amounting to 22 and a half billion kuna. Here I will only give a brief comparison to the 2017 budget, i.e. the rebalancing we have recently voted. The figure was twice as large in 2017. So, in 2017 you remember very well that in the discussion of the budget 2017 there were many issues how and how we will refinance, restructure all our achievements and obligations. As far as new financial guarantees are concerned, they amount to 5.6 billion kuna, a guarantee stock of 265 million kuna. And what we always predict is, of course, the funds of the budget stock. It is already for 2018 I would say according to the usual practice planned in the amount of 200 million kuna. There is another provision in the Law on the implementation of the state budget to be mentioned, which is that the law no longer contains provisions from previous years on the basis of which local and regional self-government units have been paid out of the state budget from the position of the Ministry of Finance. We have presented all this, of course, in the context of our first reading, and will soon be covered in the framework of the new Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government and the already mentioned transfer of full income from income tax. The state budget assumes on itself the financing of decentralised functions, and this is the overall annual estimated effect for units of local and regional self-government of about a billion and 400 million kuna, which will strengthen their budgets, be more capable and stronger to implement projects, and, of course, through co-financing of European projects, we talked about this in Slavonski Brod. Five Slavonian counties, cities and municipalities are very eager to await the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59875	Thank you, too. This is how we have 20 replicas for the Prime Minister, 15 replicas for the Minister of Finance. But before that, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59876	Thank you, Mr. President. Five articles of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please grant me a minute to explain for each of these articles. Okay. Article 60(2), point 5, has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which speaks of the powers of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Namely, five representatives in the Croatian Parliament who were also members of the Agrokor Research Committee from the ruling majority usurped the authority of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system in a way that they sent their interpretations, which the Parliament's professional service immediately assessed as correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59877	Comrade Bauk, this has nothing to do with the discussion of the Prime Minister. I'm asking you to do that if you need to do it somewhere on a press conference outside, but this has nothing to do with the Prime Minister's exposure. You are now talking about something that happened outside the assembly and there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure in what was happening here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59878	I would like to inform you that I will request the opinion of the Constitution Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59879	Okay. But it has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59880	Okay. I will seek the opinion of the Constitutional Committee which will give its opinion in its debate, and then we will vote on that opinion in the Parliament. Secondly, Article 33 was injured. The Rules of Procedure and that was injured by the President of the Parliament who gave the order to the Secretary of Parliament to give the order to the Parliament's Professional Service to call witnesses so I couldn't come.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59881	Comrade Bauk, just a minute. So now you're abusing the Rules of Procedure. If you're interested in what happened at the moment when I checked it out, at the moment I think they know what the public is about, given that the chairman of the commission has accused the Croatian Parliament services of being something. What? ... You accused me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, then I'd be happy to answer. I didn't get it from the media. ... No, then we'll end this debate, neither will my colleague Bauk, I won't speak either, you won't speak either, because we are currently discussing the State Budget Proposal for 2018, so I ask you not to abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure because in the debate that we are having, there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you'll have to say it another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59882	This is the only way I can tell the Rules of Procedure. You're gonna tell me I'm wrong, and I'm gonna say I'm asking for an opinion. And we can do it in three minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59883	No, we can't play that way, colleague Bauk. You can't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure for what you're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59884	Okay. So Articles 16, 14 and 43 were broken.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59885	Do you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure for something concerning the debate of the President of the Croatian Government or all your injuries to the Rules of Procedure relate to what happened?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59886	All my injuries to the Rules of Procedure refer to facts relating to this. You say you disagree with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59887	You can't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59888	If there was no injury, I say I must seek the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59889	Comrade Bauk, I take your word for it because what you're doing can't be done by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59890	And the Rules of Procedure got hurt because you have to give me a warning first and only then.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59891	No, no, no, no. You're doing something here right now that hasn't been seen in the Croatian Parliament. You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure based on the presentation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, you do not. You're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure for something that happened outside the assembly. So you can use some other institute if you want to. Here you go, colleague Maras. We're moving on with the debate now, we've got replicas. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59893	Mr. President, I apologize to you, given that during my last announcement you took away my word I'd like to know if it was just a matter of specificity or a word taken from me throughout the agenda, if you can explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59894	Dear colleague Bauk, I love you so much that I will let you speak as much as you want but all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59895	So there's no warning or anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59896	There's nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59897	And thanks for this instruction, so we'll look for a break for other reasons, no problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59898	All right, all right. Now let's move on with the replicas. The first one's next, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59899	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After this usurpation of the Croatian Assembly by HDZ and probably on your incentive, my comment goes next to the budget, means. I can't support the budget and because of what 50 million kunas you plan to single out in HBOR, after we saw that HBOR served as an ATM to Agrokor last year. It is very clear from the documentation received by the Investigative Commission that Agrokor served as an ATM at the end of the year as an ATM, HBOR as an ATM to Agrokor. Why am I saying that? Here's Mr. President, a document where they're not looking for a single company loan, but companies on behalf of these companies are asking for Agrokor, not PIC, not the Star, not the Jamnica, but Agrokor's looking for a loan. The second request came on 21.11. All settled, Mr. President, in 18 days, tell me how it's possible. Our citizens who look at us go to one bank, settle the credit claim in 18 days if that's possible for a million kunas and not for 400 million kunas. Mr. President, here's the HBOR's analysis, at 6 months last year they said the credit rating was the 8th, i.e. trash. How come your finance minister didn't know that and he should have known Agrokor was in a serious financial situation. And Mr. President in the end, why only after the chairman of the Supervisory Board Zdravko Maric became in HBOR began to be direct loans approved by the Agrokor Supervisory Board? No direct credit to Agrokor has been granted before on the Supervisory Board. Four hundred million kunas almost Mr. Maric a year ago, a year and a half ago approved HBOR and there was no such thing as Please be aware of these claims I've made to you. [[Intruder president: colleague Maras, thank you.]] Why did HBOR become the ATM of Agrokor during your government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59900	Comrade Maras, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to follow at least elementary rules because we cannot work unless we stick to what is written in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. President. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59901	Okay, thank you very much, dear colleague Maras. As far as I know in your time as you were on the HBOR Supervisory Board, various companies within the Agrokor concert received 338 million credits and the credit rating was the same. So these loans, we have already discussed this several times in the Croatian Parliament, have been approved in the procedure provided for, have been approved in such a way as to serve to export several companies and, within the framework of Agrokor concert, so Ledo, Jamnica, PIK Vrbovac and, among other things, they had insurance. So they had insurance, which is pretty important. Therefore, there were no significant different circumstances compared to what was in your time when these loans were granted under HBOR's activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59902	I don't know what hurt my colleague, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59903	Article 237 and 238 of the Prime Minister were injured, not telling the truth. So for the first time, the Supervisory Board approved direct loans. During the government of Zoran Milanovic was the only credit that went through a business bank and which is not the risk of HBOR, so that money will be recovered. This money Croatia will not see, 400 million kunas directly.../The speaker has turned off and later turned on/... 400 million kuna, look at the data, look at the data please. .../The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59904	Comrade Maras, colleague Maras, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning, that's the first time, I'll take your word for it the second time. ... All right, let's move on, you've got a warning, please record it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59906	I'd like to say that I'm looking for a break for the reason this government is, it boasts that they saved, I don't know 0.1% on interest, and they gave 400 million to Ivica Todorovic and his flocks, and it's from the state budget of the direct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59907	Okay, now we're going to continue with the replicas and we're going to have the breaks after the replicas. Here's another replica. She's a respected colleague of Mrak-Taritash's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59908	Thank you very much. I have one question for Mr. Prime Minister, so when it comes to the budget, of course there are praises and what it is. The fact is that here, it's already past noon and we've just now come to order with replicas with a theme of Agrokora that was very wide, so in the context of that, I'm curious, why in the budget, are no larger funds provided for the DORH? So in this assembly we've heard several times over the years that DORH has very little resources to work with. We've heard of different options and those sitting on both left and right. And now we're looking at the budget this year. And in the budget of this year, we're looking at how much material resources there are, and when you switch it to the number of working days, then it turns out that it's approximately 333000 kuna per month for its work. And what do we expect from the DORH? We expect the DORH to work and, say, process people who in their trunk or in their wallet at a time when they are detained have more than DORH has the means to work a month. So why didn't something happen? Why wasn't there an increase? Why didn't the DORH really get to work if we wanted it to work? Why it decided to be as it was in the case of Agrokor, so the compensation was provided. So the budget, among other things, speaks to the direction in which they rule the state, which is important to them, so it turns out that the DORH is not very important to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59909	Is there, uh, any response to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59910	The DORH has been provided with adequate resources for its work. What you mentioned was at the request of the DORH during this year, therefore, a 5 million kuna relocation. If, over the year, there is a need for additional resources, it can always be done in the context of rebalancing and if lower amounts are redistributed from some other appropriations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59911	My colleagues and colleagues, this is very fun what you do, probably the audience enjoys what you do, but today we are discussing the 2018 budget and you can obstruct the work of the Croatian Parliament, but mine is also like the President of the Croatian Parliament to allow it to work normally. This isn't normal work anymore. Today we are discussing the 2018 budget. This is now a deliberate abuse of the Rules of Procedure, this has nothing to do with normal work in the Croatian Parliament. And I'll finish this part of the replica first. When we're done with the replicas, then you'll get a break. So, the third replica is a esteemed colleague of the Vesligai. Here you go. If you don't want a colleague of Vesligaj, let's move on, next up is a respected colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59912	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59913	No, it's me, I'll give you a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59914	I'm picking up a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure, so don't be mad. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59915	And what are you, you didn't answer my colleague Pernar's word. ... Well, it doesn't say... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Pernar, you must come in. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When the replicas are finished, you'll get a break right away. ... We'll change everything you say, it'll be in the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. I won't give you any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59916	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I will not vote in favour of the budget for one very important reason. And the reason is that you failed to allow the GDP increase next year by 2 percentage points. And you made that impossible in a way that you didn't accept the laws I personally suggested. I must say that there was a public debate on the law I proposed on Friday and at that public debate, a law that would finally stop, illegal interest on Croatian banks. Support for this law, your party gave its letter, your party's letter arrived at the Franak Association in July, and this letter said that HDZ supports resolving the illegal interest rate of Croatian banks. Croatian banks in Croatia charge 300% more interest than in Germany, rather than in Italy, than in Austria, rather than Slovakia. Why? Because those interest rates are illegal. They're illegal because the government of the Republic of Croatia makes it impossible. The government of the Republic of Croatia, with its rejection of the bill that I have proposed, would reduce interest rates in the loans of citizens in which they were illegally agreed, with the refusal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has decided to hold the lottery to the criminal behaviour of Croatian banks. And by rejecting the government of the Republic of Croatia, it actually states that banks have the right to criminally change interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59917	Would you like to respond to the replica? No, I don't. We're going to five lines, dear colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59918	Mr. President, please arrange a break so that we can continue our work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59919	No, I won't, don't look, I won't agree, we won't, agree to violence... I've approved my colleague Pernar, and I've approved a break when we're done with the replicas. .../Speakers speak at the same time, not understood. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59920	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have two questions for the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59921	The next is a respected colleague of Greeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59922	Mr. President, you're doing a circus, so allow me to take a break from the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. You're doing a circus, so allow me to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59923	President of the Parliament, so you should protect raise these institutions Yeah, no one gave me the same as no one gave you... [[Intruder President: No one gave you the word, colleague Petrov.]] You broke 236, 238, you broke all the articles [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So you have the possibility that, according to the 236th article, where the breach of the Rules of Procedure says you give the opportunity for people to plead, for MPs to plead. [[And what did I break?]] After that, you violated article 248 for a break where it clearly states that at the moment when a parliamentary representative requests a break, that at that moment you approve a break rather than that you are arbitraryly speaking when you will give a break. If there was that possibility, I guess it would be inside the Rules of Procedure. By the way, we know it's in preparation for the new Rules of Procedure, and you want to close it except for now the archives and other things, and you're going to close it up a little bit as far as the assembly is concerned. I beg you, while this Rules of Procedure is in effect, you are the one who needs to guard... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59924	Thank you very much for your instruction, but it is my job to ensure that the Parliament works normally. So what's going on is that the parliamentary minority is currently making it impossible for the Croatian Parliament to work normally. So sit down, fellow Petrov. You are one among the equal. Sit down. [[Grmoya intrusion: No, you're making it impossible to take a break, you're not letting a break.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59925	... In 248 you broke, 236 you broke, what are you protecting it for? [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Answer me what is it that protects the integrity of the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59926	I can't answer you because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure and you, can I answer now if you want to hear me?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59927	Mr. Jandrokovic, I see that I've been answering that half hour for a word, and then someone else who hasn't answered the word, you're letting it go, so don't be angry, but it's your fault. If you do not know how to hold a session of the Croatian Parliament, resign and there are others who are capable of it among HDZ. I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you said this was a historic obstruction of the work of the Croatian Parliament. HDZ has made a historic robbery... That's what this is about. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Please pause on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and I will speak on the subject of a catastrophic situation in Croatian traffic where daily lives are lost and you HDZ people do not care but do the obstructions of your past which is very well known to the entire Croatian public. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59928	Okay, so this way, the break will be approved as soon as we're done with the replicas, I repeat, just a little, excuse me, can I say or can't? If I can't, I'll continue with the replicas then you'll speak. There's no way, there's no way you're going to try to make it impossible for the Parliament to work this way. So look, you act like you're in the inn, you're throwing, you're yelling, there's rules of the game, I didn't give you a word at all. [[Breaking Grumo: You are violating the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Croatian Parliament, you are violating the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59929	... or the demands of the Prime Minister. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] If you get to him... The rest of us have our rights to represent Croatian citizens, if it says in the Rules of Procedure that we have a right to a break, then you must give it to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You cannot determine the interests of Croatian citizens to the Prime Minister because he wants to do... Give us a break because we're looking for it, and don't make the violence against us, and then replace the tensions and say that we're committing violence, this is the classic violence of the parliamentary majority... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59930	Okay. So, my suggestion is to finish up with the replicas, we have 30 replicas, you won't. And wait a minute, can I ask you a question then? This common sense is evident because this Rules of Procedure did not foresee situations beyond common sense. ... Oh, my fellow Beljak, you're being rude and it's something that's become a practice, to speak before you're given your word. [[Whitefish, you don't understand.]] So like this, we have 30 replicas, so we're doing some kind of procedure, we've lost a lot of time, we're doing a budget for 2018. It is clear that the whole series of breaks prevents work today to complete the discussion of the 2018 budget. It is my duty as president of the Croatian Parliament to ensure that the Parliament normally works on such an important point. You obviously don't want to discuss the budget, but you want to interrupt the work of the Parliament, and when I give you the breaks now, then you're going to look for breaks again and you're going to do it all the time. Now I would really be a bit of an unusual man if you would allow yourself as the one responsible for the work of the Croatian Parliament, no, you will do what you want, and I will do what I think is right, what is useful for the citizens and what is important in terms of the work of this Parliament, and that is to discuss the Croatian budget for 2018 today. So, I ask you to stop at the ball, not to abuse the Rules of Procedure because this is not an interpretation of Rules of Procedure which aims at better and better quality work. This is an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure which wants to obstruct the work of the Croatian Parliament. There's a Rules of Procedure not clear enough and you can with...... Comrade Maras, so don't yell from the scene, I beg you. ... [[You can't hear it.]] Okay. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We'll do it now, move on with the replicas. The next is the esteemed Greek fellow. There's no Greek colleague. And now it's Mrs. Pusic's honors, here you go. He won't answer his word either, so it's time for a colleague, Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59931	Mr. President, either ensure normal working conditions or don't put us in a position so we can't use our representation rights. ... That's not what I hear either. [[I can't hear you at all.]] Or provide us with normal working conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59932	Well, then I can read you the Rules of Procedure. ... Will you let me read the Rules of Procedure? [[I can't hear you!]] Yeah, yeah. [[/Intruder Beus Richembergh: I am not allowed to consume the right to give replicas. Please provide me with that possibility.]] I'm sorry. [[Intruder Beus Richembergh: And to stop running time because I cannot consume my right.]] I can't! [[Beus Richembergh: Do not rape the procedure! Whatever I'm saying, the Prime Minister can't hear it, and then he can't even answer me. Mr. President, give me conditions for work.]] I can ask the MPs, I ask the MPs to stop banging the tiles on the table. Mr. President, I ask you not to beg, but to ensure. [[/Intruder Beus Richembergh: Can you hear me?]] [[The President can't be heard because of the noise in the hall.]] [[Mr. President, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure!]] If you can't stop this session, because whatever I'm saying, the Prime Minister can't hear me. I want the Prime Minister to answer me. Mr. President, provide me with the conditions for fulfilling my rights. Thank you. Time's up. ... Time's up! ... [[I can't hear you!]] Okay. [[I can't hear you! A little louder, I can't hear you!]] Now all we can do is tell you something. I can't say, because they don't give me colleagues. So Article 248 says the president will set a break with the fact that he cannot set time for a break less than 10 minutes or longer than 30 minutes. I say I'll take a break after the replica and I don't see what the problem is. No, this isn't Parliament's work, but I don't feel responsible for it. [[I can't do that. He can't!]] [[Because of the noise in the hall the speaker can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59933	Mr. Jandrokovic, on behalf of the HSS Club, I am looking for a break in order to establish a commission to determine the damage on the parliamentary inventory, and you will be responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59934	Mr. President-in-Office, under these conditions, you can't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59935	... Comrade Bernardic, get off the phone. You don't belong here. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Well, my colleague Petrov, no one has given you a word. Well, fellow Petrov, you can't talk because you didn't get the word, you can't. ... So this is the last time I'm going to read the rules of the Rules of Procedure regarding a break, it's Article 248. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] "The president will approve a break with the fact that he cannot set time for a break less than ten minutes or longer than 30 minutes." I approved the break after the replica. Well, you can't define me as a minority when I'm gonna set a break. So like this, colleagues and colleagues, I suggest you calm down now to do the replicas. Well, then let's get back to work. It's time for your ninth classmate Curai. Here you go. He's a tenth colleague of the Bunjac, here you go. My colleague Kovac, you're the eleventh. Here I am asking my colleagues from the SDP to allow their member to speak. ... This is my colleague Kovac, colleague Petrov. Let your colleague speak. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] No, I'm not breaking anything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I approved the break after the replica. And it clearly says here that he's obliged to grant a break and I did it. But you're setting me up when I'm gonna set a break. Here's your colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59936	Please stop the time because I can't speak. I think we're setting a good example for these kids up for the future. I'm asking you to give me a working atmosphere.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59937	You're out of time. Would you like to respond to the replica? The SDP members are working with noise to expose the SDP member. ... Well, you can't tell me when to take a break. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59938	Take a break. You're the one who did this. You have a duty to do so by the Rules of Procedure and it is all your fault, and you are not Pharaoh, nor is this anyone's front, this is the Croatian Parliament and ensure that people speak and that man will have the right to rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59939	So I'll give you a break I'm going to have your esteemed colleagues and colleagues, and now my colleague Maras has come and told me to kick you all out. [[/Intruder: My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I'm on time, aren't I?]] So, you want an incident, I don't want an incident, I'm offering you a compromise to end up with replicas and that after that we're going to take a break My colleague Maras... [[But you've made an incident. You didn't allow a break.]] [[Grmoya Invader: Dear President, you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure.]] [[You're breaking the Rules of Procedure all the time, you've made this circus.]] [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59940	Your Honor, you have violated Article 237. Rules of Procedure because you do not maintain order in the assembly, 237. Rules of Procedure. Enable the normal work of the Parliament, allow us to break up with this circus, watch us Croatian citizens, don't beat yourself up, don't make a circus out of the Croatian Parliament. Let's take a break and settle this, settle the budget, let's take a break, Mr. President. I beg you on behalf of the citizens who are watching us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59941	So, colleagues and colleagues, there were a lot of situations where we did replicas and then had a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59942	Yeah, but then the man who asked for it, the representative who asked for a break, he would agree to be after the replica and his colleague Beljak is looking for a break right away, let him do it. I beg you, President, do not be the ones in charge of the order, do this from the Croatian Parliament. Please. Allow me to take a break. Don't go too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59943	So, my colleague Grumoja, I won't give in under the pressure of those who think that violent ways can change the Rules of Procedure... and work, so no. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59944	And my colleague Podolnjak's been holding the Rules of Procedure for 20 minutes, so don't let the professor say what he has to say. Allow Professor Dolenjak. [[Adversity President: A lot of people are holding a breach of the Rules of Procedure, tell your colleague Maras.]] [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59945	I can't see it like this, they're complaining about some fellow Maras, from your ranks to want to talk but not to give it to them. So you send me different signals, some want, some don't want, I don't know what you like as a club you want. I'm asking you to finish the replicas...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59946	Mr. President, the SDP Representatives Club wants you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Don't hang in there, you've been told by a colleague of the bush. [[Intruder President: I stick to the Rules of Procedure.]] And our citizens need to know this. He writes in his Rules of Procedure very clearly and Mr. Bukarica should warn you of that if he is conscious enough to do his job here officially and not in the interest of one party. So it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure when it can be given a later break. The replicas are not mentioned at all. What you mentioned now was a situation when the clubs agreed to hold the break after the replica. Now I want to speak immediately, you are only committing violence for one single reason, so that Mr. Plenkovic can resolve his and leave the Croatian Parliament. That's the only reason you're doing this. And keep here at chess-mate 150 MPs for what you want to do the way it suits you. I suggest you stop this, give us a break, stick to the Rules of Procedure, people look at us, it's not in anybody's interest this, and you should be the least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59947	Okay, I'll do it again, it'll be a break. It doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure that I have to take a break right now but to give a break. I've announced that I'll give a break as soon as they finish the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59948	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, if you are willing to violate the Rules of Procedure, how then... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59949	Come on, buddy Bernardic, you're boring.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59950	... and instructed professional services not to come to the parliamentary investigation committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can't obstruct the work of the Parliament that the Parliament founded, so you have to.../The speaker understands.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59951	Comrade Bernardić, you speak beyond procedure and Rules of Procedure. ... Come on, come on, you're so much, they're so empty, they don't make sense. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, sit down, please. Come on, sit down. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah, well, see how I keep you quiet, I can't stop you as long as you're talking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, let's do this. Now we've already done 14 replicas and we've only got six, we've only got six. After 6:00, I'll give you a break. ... Oh, my colleague Maras, I didn't give you my word, so why are you talking? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Unaccounted speakers speaking out loud, not understood.]] He can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleagues and colleagues, so there will be a break, we only have six more replicas, and then there will be a break. ... So you're talking like I'm banging plates, banging members of the SDP to expose members of the SDP. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You don't let your MPs speak. ... Yeah, and you'd like me to kick you out of the assembly and I won't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I want you to be here and work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ... I'll give you a break. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't talk past procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And where does that say? [[Unaccounted speakers speaking out loud, not understood.]] And where does that say what you're saying? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Unaccounted speakers speaking out loud, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59952	... Do not hold order in the House and do not hold it for the reason that you are interpreting on your own an arbitrary basis how the work of the Parliament should take place. do not stick to the Rules of Procedure, and this is all in your power and responsibilities and responsibilities that are written in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Stick to the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59953	I'd love to leave this place to you, but it's your own fault you're not here. ... Yeah, yeah, well, that's sad. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Unaccounted speakers speaking out loud, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59954	... Okay, now that we've started, just a little bit, like this... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Yeah, well, now, just a little bit, like this, here's my colleague Podolnjak, just a little bit, given what my colleague Beljak said, we're going to take a break from 15 minutes, but we're going to continue with the replicas and then you're going to get a break. I'll take a break now,......... We can, we can, we can, we can, we can, we [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll agree to return and replicas, but on condition that the break is as I said it was because I have the right to do so in the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't do that.]] Now it's a break until 13,15. [[/Intruder: You have no right but immediately upon request. You have no right.]] MEETING IN 12.52 HOURS [[Intruder: You have no right, you have no right under Articles 137 and 148, this is usurpation.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59955	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:15 A.M.]] Comrade Beljak, you haven't got the answer. I'm asking you to get off the phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59956	Mr. President, thank you very much for your break, despite... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59957	A fellow white man. Okay. The next replica is a respected fellow Glasovac, a fellow Glasovac, if you are reporting on the line. If not, next up, dear colleague Klisovic, colleague Stričak has given up, colleague Vlaovic, neither has he. Then lose your right, then you want to talk? [[I didn't give up.]] Here, here, you can talk Here you go, fellow Voter. [[So you won't tell me when I'm gonna start talking.]] Comrade Pernar, I beg you to leave Okay. [[I'm giving my time to Mr. Whiteman.]] Now we're going to the replicas for our colleague Maric. First up, buddy Maras. Here you go. Comrade Hajdukovic, would you like to replicate your colleagues? [[Mr. President, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure again.]] colleague Beus Richembergh, colleague of Strenja Linić Comrade Sagar, also nothing, colleague Curaj you're giving up, right? [[Intruder: You have violated the law of attorney.]] Lackovic's gone, Bulja's gone, Bulj. [[I haven't given up on my replica.]] Here you go. Well, fellow Whitey won't tell you. [[I haven't given up on my replica.]] Kola Klisović, not present [[Intruder: So maintain order at the session, allow me a replica.]] Zekanovic, giving up, colleague Alexic, you want to speak? ... [[Intruder: Please allow me a replica.]] You got it, buddy Bull. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Comrade Bull, here you go. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59958	... that HDZ is obstructing the work of the Assembly Commission, the investigative committee on Agrokor, is in principle what HDZ wants, to hide their responsibility, not only for Agrokor, but for the complete privatisation robbery and everything that's happened, I expect since the '90s and today comes... [[Specially enabled.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59959	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59960	So here, I would like to ask, I would like to give the replica, I would ask the President of the Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, to enable the right of parliamentary MPs to the line and to respect the Rules of Procedure means 238, that it means, that the possibility before our replicas, that the club that asked HSS to give the break, because so is the business order and Article 237 where you have the opportunity to do so and only in this way. This is how you usurped the right to a very important document, the parliamentary deputies, to ask questions and replicas to ministers, that is your ultimate goal, and you will not succeed in that goal because this is your cause and the culprit, as president of the Parliament, of the situation in which the Parliament is now. You only have to respect the Rules of Procedure, this is your obligation to us also to the parliamentary deputies, and also to the voters who chose us, this is not the Pharaohic Governance of Parliament, that someone invents a Rules of Procedure. We're being watched now by people who... and Dalmatinka's workshops, and auto transport workers and workers of Škvera and workers of Dalmatia wine, who can't achieve other Kamenska companies, who have not achieved their right of bankruptcy, are clearly asking the question, while traffic in Makarska, Debeljak and numerous are affected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, you did not make it possible for us Assembly MPs, it was a minute for me, while the other microphone was on a minute ago, and I'm standing side by side this time because of the Rules of Procedure. And for this mess is solely the fault of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Gordan Jandroković, who usurped the Rules of Procedure, usurped the entire government, was usurped by the Committee for Agrokor this morning, meaning an absolute dictatorship that has not been seen for a long time. So can you give me a minute longer, because you took me a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59961	No, I've let you in for over two minutes, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59962	No, no, you took me a minute longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59963	No, no, no. You got two minutes from the start, so not now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59964	I would ask you, President, to respect the Rules of Procedure, it is up to you, to respect this Great House, to be watched by people, to be watched by people, to be expected by solutions, not by your games, so that the diameter can sit and laugh here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59965	The Prime Minister sits here waiting for him to work normally. Okay. Here's another colleague, Alexic and a colleague of the Greeks. ... Comrade Hajdukovic, you didn't want to talk, you were here. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Who wants to talk more to hear from those who gave the replica? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, wait a minute, I want you to talk and finish your lines and then give a break to those who asked for a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Can we do that? Well, we can't, I mean, make a deal between you. I'm offering a reasonable compromise, we're done like this, we can make a deal like this. We've taken a break, that is, a replica for the Prime Minister. ... We did, we did. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] We did. I'm taking a break now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59966	Mr. Jadrokovic, I've been politely raising my hand all the time in this House and I've asked you to give me your word. You haven't given me your word, and now I've taken the opportunity when I can. Or take it and lead this House right, because the last line you heard was mine, I was second in line. [[President intruding: Good.]] From the third line, it was no longer heard, and I couldn't hear. [[President: And why are you answering now?]] Either let us hear all the replicas or I ask all the MPs on behalf of the Party of Voice to speak loudly to hear them. But we don't hear them and we don't get a chance to hear them. And you can't deny us our right when we're looking for a break to talk about what the Assembly MPs can say. But it became obvious that when someone as decent as I was and held my hand could hold hands all day long, and actually those who get up can talk beyond that. [[Intruder President: I agree.]] So I ask you nicely to enable us to work in the Parliament and return to the third line, because from the third replica onward we have heard nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59967	So here's the deal. I try to hold order, but disorder does not create the ruling majority, but disorder is created by representatives of the opposition while speaking to opposition representatives to make it absolutely clear [[Grumo raider: You do not respect the Rules of Procedure!]] I'll take a break. [[Grmoya Intruder: Respect the Rules of Procedure, allow a break.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Grmoya raid: You are therefore responsible for this and this is no circus but this is an opposition to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the Parliament.]] Okay. Okay. [[This is the President's resistance. This is the resistance you have caused by your baptism of the Rules of Procedure.]] Now we're gonna take a break. We're done replicating the president. Yes, we did. [[Grmo's incursion: We're not done with the replicas.]] For the Prime Minister [[Grmo raider: We did not end up with replicas because no colleagues were given the opportunity to respond.]] We did, we did. ... [[You didn't allow it!]] Comrade Thunderbolt, please! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[/Grmoya Intruder: Let the president take a break first, and then let your colleagues hold it. And also individual MPs have been holding a breach of the Rules of Procedure for 10 minutes.]] So, I'll give you a break just a little bit please. I'll give a break and then the replicas for Minister Maric Is anyone answering for a break? [[Intruder Beus Richembergh: Not for the prime minister because they are not consumed.]] We've got a breach, a violation of the Rules of Procedure by a colleague of the Voice, here you go. [[Intruder Beus Richembergh: It's already called for a break.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59968	Thank God. I've been holding a breach of the Rules of Procedure for 30 minutes before the last break. After that, you called me, because I applied regularly for a replica of the prime minister's presentation so that you would make your decision because I was unable to do so because of the riots in the assembly that you did not provide to say your replica. You erased me and you took away my line. And now as I see the canoes and me and the other MPs by the end of the day, deny the right to replicas that we have properly signed up for, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's not right. You are under Article 33, Mr Jandrokovic is obliged to worry about the protection of the rights and the fulfilment of the duties of MPs. It is my right and my duty to discuss the state budget. I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, responded to the replica, and you were unfair to me when I got up, I had no conditions to speak because it was a mess, because you didn't secure order. You have erased me, moved on, and you will not give me the right to reply until the end of today or ever. You are in violation of Article 33 because you are making me impossible in mine, in my capacity as a representative and what I have the right and obligation to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's not, there's been a lot of things going on in this House, but it's never happened before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59969	My colleague, the Voicer, did you bang with a tile on the table? You didn't hit once? You didn't knock? So you've been banging, I've seen it very well. So, that's what I think it's not in your job description. Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59970	Thank you, Mr. President. After half an hour of respecting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I have been here for two years and I must say that I have not witnessed such scenes. And I'm deeply sad because I didn't expect to see scenes like this in the Croatian Parliament. Such disrespect for the Rules of Procedure, such a violation of the elementary rules of parliamentary work, turn the Parliament into a reality show. That's terrible! But it's up to you because you're the chair of this session. You didn't hold order at the session. The fact is that, as never before in these two years, there is no such revolt of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but for one unequivocally reason why the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the maintenance of the break are not respected. It's clear to everyone that grammatically... The interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is by no means in the hands and decisions of the President [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] indicates whether it will be between breaks or after [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] or after maintenance of breaks or replicas. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And the word replica is not mentioned at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59971	Well, colleague Podolnjak, now you're giving me a lecture on order. I'm asking you to finish, and time's up. No one here wants to stick to the order obviously! [[Downstairs: Because it is unequivocally clear...]] Good fellow Podolnjak, thank you very much for your [[/Subject Podolnjak: Everyone in this House does not in any way influence the right of an agent to seek a break. It's clear to everyone. By reading each and every one of us can read that provision of the Rules of Procedure.]] So please don't interpret things wrong. [[Intruder Podolnjak: It is clear to you, but therefore I ask you to respect this Rules of Procedure.]] I've allowed myself on several occasions today. And after the presentation, there was a break and before the replica there was a break, you all know it very well. ... The Rules of Procedure allow me to take a break after the replica. [[You can't hear it.]] Don't be like that. That's already happened. We all know that very well. But I'd like to ask you now to stop fighting and fighting. Can we make a deal? Is it in the interest of us to continue to work or do you want to continue the conflict? So I suggest now, here you see. So you don't want to make a deal at all, you want to have a fight. I'm begging you now. I suggest we consult clubs, meet up and figure out how we're gonna keep working. I'm asking you to meet the presidents of the clubs, I'll give you half an hour's rest and we'll discuss how we'll proceed with our work. We'll figure out what we're gonna do after the club president's meeting. So please. ... So you don't want a meeting of the club presidents? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59972	You broke the Rules of Procedure and you're responsible, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59973	Okay. Then we have a break. Who's calling for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59974	So what we only ask is that Article 231 be respected. Rules of Procedure. "The President gives representatives a word in the order in which they applied." We haven't heard a single line of prime minister from the third representative, and we're going to ask to return to the third line. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59975	I'm asking you to arrange this at the presidency or at a meeting of the club presidents. Can we have a meeting of the club presidents? I beg you, we now have a half-hour break for club presidents to agree on how to proceed. Now it's 13.32 at 14,15 we'll continue our work. Now, please, my colleague Bačić, colleague Bauk, I don't know who the president of the Most Club is to meet all the other clubs and agree that we'll move on with our work. At 14.15, we move on. Party at 13.32 p.m. CONTINUED AFTER STAKE at 14.35 P.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is in line with the agreement of the constituency clubs, so as I understand the representatives of the clubs I spoke to before we move on to the replicas sent to Minister Marić, the representatives' clubs would say that they had replicas addressed to the Prime Minister and did not...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59977	But Mr. Jandrokovic, I had the same break I asked for and you didn't give it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59978	I know, you're gonna get a break, just a second from your colleague Pernar. Let's not, let's at least work to answer our word and approve the word rather than throw ourselves at it. So, the representatives of the clubs who have responded to the replicas, and those who have not reported in any way now have the opportunity to answer the word and I will give it right away, so every club can express its views on the presentation of the Prime Minister for 5 minutes. So, please call who's interested in this. Dear Mrs Pusic, Beus, well, that means GLAS, colleague Alexic, colleague Bunjac, colleague Vlaovic, SDP, Curaj, HNS, Bačić HDZ. Comrade Sincic, here you go. You're reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59979	That's right. Thank you, Mr. President. Article 192, infringement of the application of the Rules of Procedure. I appreciate that, in an effort to be peace, to be constructive in this way, we do it, but it's some kind of stop-replica, or replica-station, and it doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59980	Thank you. Given the extraordinary circumstances we've had, this is one way of political agreement, one human, normal arrangement to avoid more of that atmosphere and the atmosphere that we've had, so I ask you all to understand that this is how we overcome the problem that happened to us. And once again I'd just say it again, so we've got a voice, we've got a colleague, we've got a Living Wall of Bunjac,... And you're the same, aren't you? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ah, one of you is saying, yes, to live the wall. Then we have the SDP, we have the HNS, we have the HDZ, they're the clubs that will answer the word. HSS, HSS. Does the Most want, colleague Sagar, yes and the Most. Here, that's it. You got it. Do you want a 10-minute break or should we get going right now? .../The intruder can't be heard. Then we can leave immediately, please on behalf of GLAS, dear colleague Beus Richembergh, no, first respected colleague Pusic, then respected colleague Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59981	Thank you, Mr. President. I am sorry that there is no prime minister in the assembly since my replica refers to his presentation and since he refers to the concept of the budget primarily related to the budget, for the Ministry of Science and Education. At first glance, it seemed very optimistic, i.e. the budget for curricular reform seemed to increase by 24, practically 24.5, 24.4 million kuna. However, better insight than the 33.9 million currently foreseen instead of 9.5 as previously, it is evident that 29 million kunas go as far on equipment, so computers, and as it says here, fees to people outside of work relations, I guess these are people who are going to work on curriculative reform. What's he saying? He says there's no reform next year. I'll compare it to the money Dr. Jokic said needed for the curricula reform. He said he needed 500 million kuna. According to this, if we calculate a technique of equipment that is certainly welcome, but it's not a curical reform, you can learn smart things on computers and stupid things, content is a curriculative reform. So if 500 million kuna is needed for this reform, and de facto in this increase is 4.9 million, it will take about 100 years to carry out a curricular reform at this pace. I don't know if he'll talk... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59982	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the prime minister in his statement explaining the draft budget said among other things that the EU's absorption of funds would increase by 24%. That is not in line with what the budget says. Compared to 2017, funds are being reduced in the EU Project Co-financing Fund, Minister Maric promised that in 2016, therefore, these funds will be 175 million, we know that only 19 were realised. It was then said in the projections that in 2017 it would be 185, eventually the figure was rebalanced to 150 and it was written in projections that for 2018 it would be 180 million and now we see 120 in this budget. So it's obvious that the disproportionateness from what we're being told and what's real is when the prime minister says that in the first eight months, that more funds were signed and agreed than last year, so that's not hard at all. Because realisation is extremely bad. At this time, we are still increasing the funds that we are paying in the European Union budget by about 350 million kuna and we are unable to withdraw two of our commitments from 3.5 billion. That's bad news for this budget, one of the bad news this budget brings. It is obvious that the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Funds have failed dangerously, and this House must know and realise it. So, the dynamics of bargaining, of course, depend on competitions, but in explaining this budget, it is also said that it was delayed in competitions. If it is already known that due to certain objections, certain complaints will cause some disturbances, then the competition should be announced in time so that everything is realised in the current year in which it is intended, and this fall is something that testifies that we have problems with the engagement of funds from European funds and that absolutely no one is responsible. And all the time we're saying it's going to be one of the key sources of funding for projects in Croatia. If we're reducing from 150 to 120 million kuna this year, then I really don't know how we're going to increase absorption by 24%. Either the numbers don't work or we're told the wrong things. And that's what the Prime Minister should have explained, too bad he's not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59983	Thank you. We're going to the second club now, it's the Club of Representatives of the HNS and the Honorable colleague of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59984	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, in my replica which was on the prime minister's display, I wanted first of all to welcome some indicators visible to this budget regarding macroeconomic projections of growth, of course, by some of the specifics that they bring to us, first of all, that is the key thing, and that is what Minister Maric said, and I will look back later on the income from the source of income tax that is completely transferred to local self-government. And it's also a conservative approach in making and predicting real growth, so of 2.9%, we know that in this year we're probably going to end up far more than 3%. What is certainly important when we talk about further development and what our GDP is based on, and that is, above all, spending, exporting goods and services, it is envisaged here that it participates with 2.7 GDP in this expenditure. I'm sure we can use it, and we have to do a lot more. Of course I welcome every announcement of the discharge of both the inflatable and our own citizens. We have 213, at least we had 2016, 213 parafiscal charges that almost collected nine billion kuna a year. We also saw that the entire economy began to rise when we unloaded and left more money for our citizens. In some ideal world, I would like all income net, so let's say a thousand euros are absolutely non-taxable, so we would certainly have a more competitive economy, reducing what the cancer of the wounds has become in the last few years, which is negative demographic indicators and evictions, and thus, again, would allow the budget to be filled through secondary effects, so first of all through consumption. What is good and what is seen in the projection is that we plan to absolutely cancel the deficit in the next three years, possibly even earlier, given that if we have indicators better than conservatively that now the planned deficit regarding the 1.47 billion kuna is more related to the debt itself and inflation and interest itself, the rest of the 3.5 billion is related to European projects. What I can certainly welcome is an increase in the 520 million economy ministry in order to encourage just entrepreneurs, businessmen through various programmes, and that is what we must insist on. I would like as much as possible as possible as this government has set out to relieve both citizens and entrepreneurs if I believe that funding is available, and here we have seen that growth and wages next year in the prime minister's exposure, that pensions grow, that agreements are respected and that we welcome and would like to see more disbursement of citizens through certain tax rates. I wish our citizens could really earn a salary that's about the same and the same in Western countries, to increase purchasing power. I'm just going to make a comparison with my Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County and here's to the city of Zagreb, which means that purchasing power. For certain products goods and services prices are more than 50% lower than here. And why are they lower? Why does an entrepreneur who works in all of Croatia have to pay for his employee in a store or bakery anyway 3 thousand kuna or 3.5 in Osijek, and say in Pula 5.5 or 5? Because one product is in Osijek 7 kuna and in Pula 11. And why is 11 there? Because there people have money and then they can pay it and then of course they can increase the wages to workers, because they can't be asked by entrepreneurs that no one can or should work on their own damage, but they absolutely have to pay every one that goes. And maybe in further work and thinking, we just need to see how to even things out, to create maybe some kind of tax havens for those areas. The other day you were in Slavonia and Slavonski Brod, for those areas that are worst hit where really very low purchasing power, where wages are low and there we should absolutely react and then we will say that the economic postulate is as strong and weak as the weakest link is the whole system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59985	Thank you. It is now up to the Live Wall Representatives' Club and SNAGA and respected counterpart Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59986	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will address the Prime Minister who is not here. So, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, I will not vote for the budget for one very important reason, your government has failed to increase GDP next year by at least one percentage point. And how would that be possible? It would be possible for the law to be passed soon, which is a law that would bring finally illegal interest rates in Croatian citizens' loans into legal frameworks. This way interest rates would fall 50% on average. Your party, the distinguished prime minister, the HDZ supported this proposal in July of this year, sent an official letter to the Franak Association confirming that during 2017 it would prescribe a methodology for finding the initial fixed margins in all loans in which these margins were not agreed. So this is the HDZ promise made publicly with the signing of the HDZ Secretary General, Mr Jandrokovic. Therefore, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I cannot give the green light to the state budget because you do not want the crime of Croatian banks to end, because you do not want to break the crime of Croatian banks to allow GDP to grow by an additional one percentage point next year and therefore I simply cannot give the green light to this state budget because you do not give the green light to break crime. In other words, by rejecting my proposal, the government supported the crime of Croatian banks. Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59987	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the government. We here listen to quantitative data all the time instead of listening to qualitative data. So we're dealing with numbers instead of quality and content. The government keeps selling false statistics as Croatia grows. Croatia is located at the very bottom of Europe at least 50 parameters of official statistics. And if we are growing 2.5% of GDP, and all of our neighbours and all of our EU members are growing between 4% and 5% of GDP, we are just digging into the bottom, so there is no growth. So please tell me who ever congratulated anyone because he's last in something and he pushes himself even more to the bottom. Here are the gentlemen from the HNS you entered the Government to give a mandate to the Ministry of Science and Education, do you realize that in this projection of the budget by 2020, the allocation for education and science is reduced by a percentage, it rises by several tenths or hundreds of millions of kunas. But 2018, 2017, education funds amounted to 13% of the budget, 2018 is 12.6% of the budget, and 2020 is 12.4% of the budget. So we already have catastrophic educational separations, and now this government is still reducing them, and you're satisfied with that. Is that why you entered the government? You've entered the government to take over the ministry where you'll get even less money from this misery that's now being won. Well, do you know how to take a calculator as a child in elementary school and calculate what it gives you by the government. And it's amazing that here the government is coming and the prime minister is saying we've increased the allocations for education. No, they cut you gentlemen down. And that's the land of knowledge that HDZ stands for, that's your future of Croatia, and I will during my debate when I have a more extensive exhibition then I will prove to you what the government is giving out funds for. And the government sets aside funds for itself, for its policy, for its own party, and you're just a contemplator here who doesn't understand basic mathematics. And stop saying you've increased funds for the Ministry of Education and Science. I repeat once again, you have reduced them, and that is how you have betrayed the future of this country. I'm sorry there's no Prime Minister here, but every time Bunjac speaks, he slips.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59988	Next is the SDP MPs' Club, three representatives Hajdukovic, Prelec and Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59989	Thank you very much, President. I'm also sorry the Prime Minister wasn't here, because these were questions for him. Since the budget is the main political legitimacy of each government. So, I'll address him even though he's not here. So, according to the prime minister, one of the key points of the HDZ programme is demographic renewal and I quote Mr. Prime Minister: "The maternity benefits will be depleted for the other six months, and a fee of 7 and a half thousand kuna will be introduced." The end of the quote. That's what Mr Plenkovic said during the presentation of the HDZ programme. However, those items in the 2018 budget are not seen at all, the demographics are not done, at least not in the way he announced it, and the eviction continues. Mr Plenkovic also said during the presentation of the HDZ Economic Programme, and I quote: "We will set up the Agricultural Bank." The end of the quote. Where's that bank? Where is the money secured for that bank in the budget? I guess it's the same as buying INA, and our agriculture is in a more difficult situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59990	Comrade Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59991	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was asked to the prime minister, but here's the finance minister, so I'd like to ask the answer. In fact, there is a law in the procedure that will reduce the cost of importing used vehicles. I honestly don't understand this. This will cost the state budget, i.e. a smaller budget for the circus, so much is calculated about 100 million kuna. Any discharge from Croatian citizens is desirable and I am in favour. But so that we can drive used vehicles from Germany, from Europe that they are getting rid of, and I don't know if you know that in Paris, probably 2020 or 2023, the possibility of driving diesel by vehicles will be completely abolished, and we will encourage diesel to be imported to Croatia under more favourable conditions and it will cost the state budget of 100 million kuna. My question is what was there, or is it possible to start encouraging environmentally acceptable vehicles? So let's cost this state budget 100 million kuna, but we'll have vehicles that are green and that are environmentally acceptable. A specific question which was the intention of this law or of amending the law and whether it will be possible for Croatian citizens to buy on privileged terms environmentally acceptable vehicles, or whether the purchase of electric vehicles will be subsidized. Here's my particular question, so I'm asking the Minister to answer me specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59992	Stjepan Kovac, come in. All right, I'll take five seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59993	Thank you. So here's what I can say by reading this budget is that, most of all, the amount of the 1.4 billion kuna increase in staff expenditure is the reason for those 1400 pages, for example, the Tax Administration explains that the increase stems from the cost of new employment according to the admission plan in the state service of the state administration, professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. What I wanted to ask the prime minister, but the minister can answer this is just one example. All the ministries and many agencies that people don't know what they're up to are interested in whether there's going to be new employment again or how people like to say it incarceration instead of saving. Because you know yourself that all these state administrations are too big and you're still going to increase the pay mass. If I'm not mistaken, I think it's a lot, because when you look at 2017 in the 2018 budget, for example, you've put an increase of only 2.6 million kunas, and this increase stems from the revenue from the European Social Fund, which the Croatian Fire Community has applied to, in order to train, perfecte firefighters. Directly 8 out of the budget you put 642 350 kunas which I find embarrassing. You can't buy a car for that money. There's a fellow Sanader, he knows it best. And you know for yourself what all the firefighters did and lived through this summer, they were all full of firemen's mouths to help them. So in the budget you increase by 1.6 million i.e. from the budget directly 600 thousand kuna which I consider to be too small. And look back at the locals, the Međimurjes, the Chakovec. Here is the town of Čakovec mentioned only on 858 pages and where Croatian waters are involved in co-financing of waste water systems in the area of agglomeration Čakovec. You know we're done here. So there's not one project that's more capital for the north. I can say that I talked to Ministers Divjak and Murganic about the Centre for Education and Education and there was a promise that he would not be 18, but in the projections for 2019 and 2020 there was a promise that he would finally start. Now I see Virovitica is here, ours isn't even in the projections. I'm sorry there are no ministers and prime ministers to answer whether their promise stands or not. And I think the North definitely deserves a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59994	Let's move on. The next club is representatives of HSS and respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59995	... Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates. [[Specially enabled.]] Here I am, on behalf of the HSS Club, also expressing my dissatisfaction that the President of the Croatian Government is not with us, because the state budget has been in circulation for about a week now, in the floors, in the assembly and in the parliamentary committees. So it's possible that he should have planned to be here all day with us. But here, I hope he'll be given our debate and a question or the Honorable Minister here will be present to answer. Of course, we welcome the balance of the budget of income and expenditure, but what is bothering us from the HSS, and here we also support the thinking and the Croatian Association of Employers and Representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, that the state is still too expensive for us. Because the budget itself says that on the spending side, spending increases for state spending more than 5 billion. Out of these 1.4 billion kunas, higher growth is paid by government employees and tenants and public services. Of course, we welcome the increase in wages and the basis of collective agreements and the fact that several years ago they were neglected, but surely the state could have done more to reduce the state apparatus, to fulfill that promise from the pre-election campaign, to reduce the cost of the general state and do as much for the economy, for our craftsmen and entrepreneurs to have less tax burden. I am talking about non-taxable donations, parafiscal impositions, because we see that both in rebalancing for this year and in projection for 2018, 2019, 2020, further revenue growth... with the right to ask in representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association, what kind of message is this to the Croatian economy, if it is not going towards reducing these revenues and burdens, but is still predicting the growth of the same ones, and on the other hand the growth of wages in the economy is expected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That gentlemen's growth pays and pays is a first and basic question. Because if we want to stop the eviction of Slavonia and Baranja, if we want to stop evicting from other underdeveloped areas, then first of all we have to do everything we can to enable the economy to increase wages. 250,000 people in Croatia work for wages below 35,000 kn. Over 50,000 works for a minimumer of 2620 kn. Would you be able to finance your family with so little income and with the right that people do not trust them because we are sending them a message with the budget, that it is unlikely that there will be a significant increase and minimum wage, and the Croatian Employers' Association is asking that it be 45% of the average salary in the Republic. We also ask that there be over 50%, because with such small incomes in the Republic of Croatia you can't live. It is also not clear from this budget how sensitive economic sectors will be helped. I mean, the wood industry, the textile industry, the store, where you know that they're just so low wages, where people work most of the contract for a certain time and work for a minimum. From this budget they certainly cannot see their perspective, and they particularly bother us, and when we see that 627 million kuna is more for material costs. So it's for cars, for computers, for new offices, and there's no increase in wages for workers. We also have to mention pensioners, because a billion and 400 million kuna goes more for pensions, but it is for harmonisation and these pensions are still below 40% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia and cannot live on it. And I don't see in this pension budget either, those who have retired from agriculture, who still have pensions of 500, 600 kn, no aspirations of this government to change it, to help these people to have better income and I will keep mentioning it, as long as they have small pensions. I appreciate the government's optimism and the minister's revenue from European funds will increase by 13.8 nearly 14 billion kuna. I would remind you that in this year we reduced those revenues by 2.2.5 billion, which says the government is optimistic, but whether these administrative obstacles have been reduced, whether these tenders and these projects are really prepared, so that they can actually realise it. Here is the Croatian Employers' Association, and today on the board, expressed doubts because, for example, some of the activities from EU funds, we have shown that we have not prepared all the documentation. 8 million kunas that were to be paid to the owner of the Ribnjak and not paid and whether they would be paid, I don't know. And that's why we can't support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59996	Let's go to the final debate is a respected colleague, Tomislav Žagar, on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59997	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable Representatives of the Government. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, as many times previous years have been highlighted here, the budget is a fundamental political document of every government, and so this government, the 2018 budget, tells us in the direction the government plans to go, but it also tells us what the government has done to drown that direction. What we resent most at the Mosta Club is how much the government actually respected its convergence plan adopted by the National Reform Programme. The truth is, the diameter he mentioned here, such authority, would say in the light of this budget, our entry into the euro area. That's a very important question. He even said in his presentation that it was our pursuit. However, in order to achieve this, I think a national consensus on the issue will be needed. Why is that? We are, in fact, boredom if we look at our monetary policy, maintaining a stable exchange rate of kuna, the question is whether it is determined by our internal aspirations, or, in fact, the market that was oriented into imports? If you ask any exporters in the Republic of Croatia, he will say that the kuna course is overrated, that it is too high and that it is one of the reasons why the domestic economy is incompetence. On the other hand, these export-oriented entrepreneurs, they place a good part of their products on the domestic market. And they're kind of dependent on that domestic market of ours. In that sense, the statement made by the Prime Minister during the election campaign, when his political rival said VAT has a marginal or no impact on the budget of people, the key measure is income tax, the prime minister said both, it is a combination of measures, we will reduce VAT in the second year because by then we will generate economic growth. The prime minister said today that we have economic growth that actually results from two things, increased demand and exports. However, since VAT cuts at this time, we have nothing, nor has this been proposed in the budget for next year. What was a grudge, the main objection to tax reform on which this budget was also based, and it was shown that the reduction of income tax actually increased tax revenues was that this tax reform favoured those with high incomes. While the reduction in VAT rates in relative amounts is most favourable to the poorest of the population. That's why we're calling on the government to hold on. Minister Maric also said at that pre-election time that he would reduce the VAT rate by one percentage point, true, the explanation was that we had one of the largest in Europe. What is certainly very important is the reduction of the tax press to increase demand and the consumption of the population, and then to make the economy live. And finally, I guess when we talk about structural reforms, the domestic economy to liven up, to develop full capacity, education reform is also needed, and that is what we do not yet see in these documents. This budget is conservative, it holds a deficit within the limits, maybe that's what the prime minister stressed, maybe it's all because of entering the Euro zone, so the public debt is holding, trying to lower the budget deficit, but this is the second deficit, the trade deficit we won't do in that conservative way. Interventions, strong interventions of the state into the economy, increase and say the education of our people, prepare for the labour market, because it is interesting today that in the structure of our economy a very small number of highly educated people or businessmen are looking for a very small number of such people through their competitions. In this sense, the separation for education is important, 2% of the separation is not satisfactory because if Croatia wants to join the side of developed countries then it is the way and the way to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59998	Okay. We are now done with discussions after the break and are now moving on to the replicas sent to Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. First up, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u59999	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the prime minister, in his presentation and later on in the replica, told me one lie, which is that the loans approved by the HBOR during the term of office while the chairman of the Supervisory Board, Zdravko Maric, the finance minister in his government, are identical to those approved by the supervisory board by the companies or Agrokor or companies as part of the Agrokor concert, while it was during Milanovic's government, or while I was a member of the Supervisory Board. I want to inform you here that according to the information provided by HBOR, during Milanovic's Government, only one loan was granted through the Supervisory Board, which is 2015, 2.2. for the hotels of Živogosce and within the framework of investment in tourism and through one business bank, I do not want to advertise it here, which means that this business bank is responsible for returning HBOR to that loan and it is neatly paid. It means the supervisory board only approved during the time, excuse me there are two more, but they're the same over Raiffeisen Bank, I didn't see at the beginning, so there's Belje and Vupik but all over the business banks. When Minister Zdravko Maric arrived, we have 5 loans directly to HBOR to companies as part of the Agrokor concert. Very clearly 4 of these loans were after HBOR assessed their rating of Agrokor as none and 4 of these loans were 2 months before Agrokor remained, dropped off on the market and the whole situation occurred. I'm asking you here why you would invest more in HBOR when he became Minister Maric's ATM company as what, Agrokor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60000	Comrade Maras, I'd like to ask you to hold on for two minutes. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60001	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You didn't call me, but I'm still gonna hold order and be with the state officials as much as in the proper manner of the Parliament, so I'm gonna call you Agent Maras. Thank you very much for your comments and your questions. I, even when I left the Ministry of Finance in Agrokor, followed the work of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government, mainly from the perspective of the state budget. In 2012, when the 2013 budget was proposed, one issue in the debate was to explain an additional increase in HBOR funds. Then on your part, from your government came the argument that the idea to stimulate direct HBOR lending. The HBOR as a development bank must take on more levels of risk and must be more flexible and faster to approve these same loans. I don't like it, and I'm not going to call anyone by character or by character or ever do it, but you're still forgetting the same fact. I don't just want to trust these people, but I think it's a duty to trust them, but you're the one who named the administration. Professional services have done the job of credit analysis as well as in the examples of these credits that you have listed here and since 2012 on all companies' credit ratings here and the entire Agrokor concert received identical ratings. In this particular loan, we talked about it very much and in the context of that debate on trust for me as Minister of Finance, and then among other things one detail which should not be ignored is that it is like a collateral or property insurance instrument which at the time of the loan approval is 30% higher than the value of the loan. Therefore, according to then existing law, HBOR could be charged without a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60002	Thank you. Injury of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60003	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. A colleague, Maric, said I named people who were not true, appointed by the Supervisory Board on a proposal from the Croatian government. But what's much more important here is that we just need to look at the table. So all the credits, three loans I said during Milanovic's government, none of them are troublesome at the collection [[Intruder president: colleague Maras!]] /Intruder President: Comrade Maras you are now, you have now abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I give you a warning. [[Break president: colleague Maras, I beg you.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]] After the second, because you hurt the Rules of Procedure because there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure here. President: This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] He could have told you. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60004	That's what you think is false. He may consider you to be the one who told the lie. I give you a warning. The second warning will be taking away words. I'm asking you to refrain from abuse of the Rules of Procedure's Institute of Injury. Let's move on. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I would like to ask you, that is, to draw the public's attention to the data that we have had the opportunity to read in the media, but which are being read out of this budget. In its report, the European Court of Auditors found that around 90%, 90% of the European Agricultural Fund's financial plan for rural development remained unused at the beginning of 2017, which was the fourth year of the programming period, while the figure for the previous financial period was 83%. So, rural areas are exposed to devastation. We do not withdraw enough funds from the EU. In relation to the planned, the withdrawal continues as 2016 and 2017. In 2016, about 7.7 billion kuna was withdrawn. In 2017 11.1 billion kuna was planned, and the execution will likely be at 2016 level, which is a 31% bribery. So this year we didn't withdraw 3 and a half billion kunas of EU money. What is the state of withdrawal of EU funds with today? I don't know, not likely. According to some calculations, we're only about six and a half billion kuna. By the end of the year, there's only a month left. While you're rebalanced the budget, you said to pull nine billion of them all together. The next 2018, 13.8 billion were planned, which is unrealistic since very weak and now withdraws funds from the European Union. Can you give us the system withdrawal structure, the funds pardon for 2018, which are projects by sector. In this way, unreal planning is what was also the objection of the State Audit Office. You blew up the item, which means we're going back into budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60006	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60007	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, as we have recently had a debate in the framework of budget rebalancing for this year, we have so much, we can say, we have so detailedly held a debate on the use of European funds. And that's when I said, and I'm going to say again that I don't think there's any MPs who wouldn't be happy and happy to make the most of it, that is, to raise both the level of absorption and the use of European funds in relation to both the existing state and general. So we were also talking about why the rebalancing cut that part and the use of European funds for 2017 exclusively from the perspective of dynamics. So I was also responsible for saying that there is no speech about the loss of money, that is to say, in situations where for certain reasons competitions are carried out because of some complaints, because of some kind of corrections, there is a prolongation of the very beginning of the use of funds. The budget does not go to the net cash flow of funds, but goes to realisation when certain measures are taken. As far as agriculture itself is concerned, I think you know too well, and my colleague Tolusic, a colleague in the Government who has experience and not only in the agricultural segment, but also in the segment of the European funds, does, of course, along with his team of great efforts and I think the results are visible. If you are looking at the situation with subsidies in agriculture whether we are talking about direct payments, whether we are talking in general, you are seeing an increasing and larger share of the European component in total funds and also in rural development measures. The figures that we have presented today, both the Prime Minister and I, in the introduction, are that in 2018 we are certainly going with great, of course, expectations. But at the same time I'm going to tell you something from perspective as Minister of Finance. So, the very delay in the dynamics of using European funds will certainly not characterize it as good, but it does not exist as such in terms of the threat to the budget and the sustainability of the budget. The European funds are neutral. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60008	Thank you. Third replica, dear colleague Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60009	Mr. Minister, in your presentation, you also spoke about the effects of tax reform, so you announced that in 2018 the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government units will be a complete income tax for them on disposition, and that the net effect for local self-government units will be around a billion and 400 million kuna. Given that we know that the net effect for the state budget in 2017 is two billion, I'm curious about where the difference is. Secondly, 49.6 billion income in 2018 is planned from VAT. This is the strongest income in terms of tax revenues and you know very well that tourist workers who have been in the sun for two and a half years are waiting to realize the promise of reducing VAT rates in tourism. According to what we see now, VAT revenues will grow 7.3% but are not planned anywhere in the tourist sector to give in and reduce that amount. You know very well that the VAT rate directly affects not only competitiveness but also the level of investment. We have several concrete examples of abandonment of investments in 2018 precisely because it will not be recycled VAT. Why does the government in a situation where it reduces the deficit when it makes better income from taxes not thinking about reducing the tax press that is impossible to raise? You know that very well, but this conservative model to maintain a high tax rate at all costs is not good because whenever taxes were reduced incomes were growing, you know for that effect. Why is there no reduction in tax rates in 2018?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60011	Thank you very much. Your Honor. As far as the new Finance Act and what you refer to is the following, so the state fully leaves income from income tax to local (regional) and regional self-government units, including the one I will call an anomaly, I will not be bad enough to speak for what reason, but the anomaly remains that income from interest on savings is the full income of the state budget, so the entire amount is left to the units of local (regional) and regional self-government. At the same time, the state takes over about a billion and 600, a little over this funding of decentralised functions directly from the Ministry of Science and Education for the School, the Ministry of Health for Part of Health, Social and Fire Department. The neutralising item is mentioned in my opening statement in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, so there are no direct aids from the state budget anymore. So sum up about a billion and 600 or 300 to 400 million interest on savings and reduce by some amount between 600 and 700 million to these aids, or to the total net effect of billions and 400. It is an effect that will be allocated according to the model that we have characterized, and I also believe that according to the debate we led in the Croatian Parliament, many of you will mostly local leaders, mayors, mayors agree much simpler because we are going to rekindle a Gordian knot that was created by frequent changes in that system, where we had 4 categories of cities, municipalities and counties and we are doing much more justice. Justice that exactly the criterion for the allocation of funds from the balancing fund of those 17% that we have secured is going exclusively towards fiscal capacity. So fiscal capacities are related to the economic strength of a particular county, city or municipality and precisely to the simulations that we have just made the most economically necessary funds and come. I'll talk about VAT later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60012	Thank you. 4. replica esteemed colleague Stranja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60013	My replica was for Mr. Minister Maric. As we can see from this current draft budget, the state will again not comply with the law itself, which means that again consciously every year we will not carry out our obligations under the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and we will not pay $1.8 billion. You have increased some 500 million kunas, but it means that you are consciously still entering the dues and debts of Croatian health care. Since 1994, 17 billion kuna has been beaten into Croatian health by constantly covering some debts and debts are now 8.2 billion kuna. The State does not fulfil its obligations and does not pay what is necessary. Which is why you consciously enter into such non-compliance with the legal provisions because we know that every year the state has to pay 4.2 billion kuna on the basis of those commitments it has made. It's about 11% of the health budget, and it's definitely something that leads to us having bigger debts year by year. These are for malignancies and psychiatric diseases, these are excise duties that we already charge for billion-dollar tobacco products and 300 million that are not paid, these are obligations for those in prisons, those are obligations that are socially endangered, these are obligations that the state has made to pay for the unemployed. All of this, of course, should continue to be maintained and all these obligations of the state should continue to be respected, but as long as the state does not respect what it has passed with its laws, we will have year by year the accumulation of debts. It's currently 8.2 billion kuna and that's how it's going to be from year to year. So your obligation is 4.2 billion kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60014	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60015	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you know that the two of us on the subject of health care have always had a constructive conversation and I see this question of yours on the trail. Also, in the context of the rebalancing, there have been many speeches about health care, we have managed to find within the limit of a billion 162 million that are aimed at resuscitating debts and all possible achievements or dues to the health system, but we have also made it very clear that it is impossible to solve all the problems whether the health debts are well known and we have responded to one representative question very transparently to how much they amount. I will, however, quote you in this section as to and in some way disagree with everyone in the health sector and finance in some way or say two elements. One of the findings of the State Audit Office is that it makes it very clear that it proposes a law on compulsory health insurance more clearly to prescribe compulsory health insurance rights for certain categories of insurance financed from the state budget. The State Audit Office shall require the establishment of criteria for the calculation of the resources to be allocated to the HZZ for each individual law in the national budget. At the same time, we had that situation that was quite a long debate during Prime Minister Milanovic's government on the exclusion of HZZO from the state treasury. In the middle of 2014, one presentation in which it states very clearly as one of the conditions or, in some way, the consequence of the removal of HZZO from the State Treasury system will be a review of the provisions of certain articles of the Health Insurance Act. To this day has never been implemented, HZZO as you well know is no longer part of the treasurery, is an extra-accountary user, its financial plans when it proposes to bring down practically to zero. But I repeat, there has never been one more time, nor has this provision or the findings of the State Audit Office been respected, nor has there been a revision of these provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60016	The 5th replica of a esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60017	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Maric, therefore, we see in this budget that although the expenditure part of the budget grows in terms of economic growth and income growth, then we keep the deficit in this reduced volume. You could say a little in a joke when you spend moderately, you can spend as much as you want. What I resent in that whole story, and it's about how you cited the risks of achieving projections. We don't see the potential of the Croatian economy anywhere. You're talking about economic growth in that amount. Are we satisfied with this economic growth? Is our economy too tense? So in structural terms, take, say, you're Slavonic, I like to point that out. Take the IMT 533 tractor, you can put a quadruple on it, but it won't work that long. You have to go into investment, you have to get new machines, new equipment. How much can the Croatian economy respond today? We can't compete just based on low wages. I'm glad you mentioned the other day I saw with entrepreneurs, you said you'd raise your net salary. Let's really see that, let's see that these people who are now covered by pessimism are leaving us people to see a dose of optimism. Look at 330,000 blocked citizens, 40 billion kuna. We have business entities somewhere around 15 billion kuna in the blockade. How many of each other's claims we don't know about, it's so-called. internal debt. It happens to us, except for Agrokor, which is a really extreme case, now it happens to us that many suppliers are not paid off, that deliveries cannot be made. Our economy is blocked. What do you, as Minister of Finance, intend to do in this direction? You can't just say, it's not, it's in some other restaurants. What you intend to do is really make the economy go full of lungs, that this economic growth is actually very low in what we could accomplish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60018	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60019	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's what I'm about to tell you is that the potential growth rate or the growth potential of the economy is one of our key specifics and focusses. So we're looking at not just one year and whether this year's growth rate is 3, 3, 2 or 2.9 but we're looking at some kind of long-term sustainability. That's exactly what this budget was made on. So it's also done on the trail of our approach that we've had for two years, and I'd say and get results, to be realistic, to be as slightly conservative in our projections as it was in 2016, as was the case in 2017, to find only at the end of the year a technical rebalancing situation as we have, which is that we've brought public finances in line, to spend as much as we have and not to go beyond those frameworks. And at the same time, within these limits, I direct resources and opportunities, precisely those most productive purposes. I'm going to refer a little bit to what I owe my colleague, Beus Richembergh, to tax reform. This is one of the things where directly when you ask me as Minister of Finance I proposed to the Government, the Government of the Croatian Parliament, has passed a package of tax reform already in the first year. So I repeat I am not talking about the fourth year of office, the pre-election year, I am not talking about the first year of the term of office of the Croatian economy and the citizens have been relieved by two and a half billion kuna. But even then, even now I'm going to say we're not planning on staying on it. And this budget as well as all the budgets that we are going to do will be guided by the principles that the spending side of the budget something that we should put all together focus responsibly, rationally using the funds, as effectively as possible withdrawing European funds. All excess income should be directed towards reducing debt deficits mainly, i.e. further rounds of tax discharge. I will refer precisely to the profit tax that we have reduced from 20 to 18, i.e. for small and medium-sized people to 12 this year is what I advocated even last year in reason, that in Croatia and very often public finances and other countries mean less as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60020	The sixth replica, dear colleague Curai, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60021	I would like to thank the President, dear Minister. Some of the things I mentioned I absolutely welcome in your presentation, first of all, and the change of the threshold for entering the VAT system from 230 to 300 thousand kuna, and as far as entrepreneurs and now 50% recognition of the commercial pre-tax for the use of personal, i.e. the purchase of personal cars. What I wanted to specifically refer to was exactly what was mentioned earlier in terms of giving up full income tax revenue. This was slightly more than two billion in the plan, i.e. with a rebalancing of even 2 billion and 26 million kuna in this year. Of course, automation was abolished and direct aids that were something below two billion. What is good, that is, what I had on the board, specifically for my city, for the city of Osijek means about 5 million kunas more revenue. It is 5 million kunas more that will be able to unintentionally whether in kindergarten, whether in culture, whether in sport and for all those needs citizens will be able to feel that they live better and better quality. However, there are also those municipalities who will not feel it because they were of their own kind having a low income per capital and there is a good thing that we have during this year and passed the Law on Alignment. My one proposal is also on the trail of what I was saying and the pay phone, that further steps around income tax would be to introduce one, one scale similar to the cut. Now that it is already a unique income of the local self-government unit, to allow maximum loads and minimals and that cities and municipalities themselves choose their own burdens. In this way, we might be following up on what I'm proposing to get our own tax havens where it really is, where it's most needed and the government can compensate those units in another way. But above all, that cities themselves choose how much they will burden their citizens and thus be more competitive and compete with each other as many people come to live with them. If that's a hundred percent tax revenue now, then that's where analogy should go as well as a cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60022	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60023	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'd say for a constructive discussion, among other things, of the tax system. In tax reform, we went with one principle and the principle of these frequent changes in the tax system that led to a great complexity of the system of opacity and difficult passing both for taxpayers and for the tax administration to go into simplification, so we performed a reduction or a permanent elimination of numerous so-called so-called. tax expenditure, relief, exemptions, reductions and the like in Croatia is not a small number. I think all my predecessors, fellow ministers, must have had good intentions when they suggested such a thing. But at some point, there is also an ex post evaluation to see if they won or didn't get the expected results. On this trail, of course, we will continue, and if there are certain impediments to the tax system, you can expect that they certainly need them and will be in line with these already started principles. So further discharge, further simplification. As for the part of income tax and local and regional self-government units, you're right, so that's what we said when we first read it, that it exists according to our simulations. Simulations were done as follows. We can't predict how big the cake will be, I call the total income from income tax, but we can prescribe how it will be redistributed. And for those units of local, regional, regional self-government that this new self-government would possibly have been worse, so that their net position is negative compared to the previous period, we will compensate from the state budget over these billions to 400 directly during 2018 and bring them down to 0. In the second reading, the government will adopt tomorrow a proposal, which we will go to not only for a year, but also to extend it, to ensure that local, regional self-government units are not at a disadvantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60024	Let's move on, dear fellow Boric, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60025	Thank you very much. I don't know if the Minister surprised you, it was me, my colleague Maras first admitted that in 2 months 2015 he as minister raised a high, high hand, that the SDP government, i.e. He as a minister finances Agrokor. He didn't want to say it until now, and he never said it. He surprised me, but it's an honor to admit it. But second, I wanted to ask you, because we have to make comparisons and some differences, because we hear that on the other hand they know everything, they know everything, etc. They always know best, and we have a situation that they've had a chance to run the country. Three questions, public debt, at what time did it happen? We had 80 billion new public debt in percentages almost 30% higher. The second thing, the deficit during that government, we entered the excessive deficit procedure, it was a great success back then, today is a failure when we got out of it. And the third thing, credit rating was a huge success after that investment, when we talk about rating, it means investment status. We fell twice during them and what's happening now. Why is everything they've done successful, and everything that's happening now more positive than what they've left us is a huge failure? Is there at all a role of the Minister of Finance, of this government, of any knowledge, or is that all the reason some of their great legacy that we inherited in the state of affairs, as their colleague Bernardic says. Here, so you explain it a little bit, because the fact is that people may not be following it or they don't know it well enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60026	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60027	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, here I am, I can also say at those times when I was here personally, the subject of the debate was not used by the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to abuse them and defend myself, so I will not now. Similarly, there were many calls to HBOR. We can talk a lot about what the hands were for in some other times and where they were and how they ended up. However, I will refer to this second part, which is much more constructive than you just mentioned. And this is the fact that we, with the beginning of, therefore, personally as finance minister, together with our team, immediately assessed at the beginning of last year 2016, characterised that public debt, that the situation in public finances is one of the key macroeconomic risks of the Republic of Croatia. So something that stops economic sustainability, jobs, investments and everything that goes with it. And we went straight to work. When we proposed the first budget for 2016, then there was talk that we were too optimistic, that what we had already announced, which is that in the first year of the mandate, we would not only stabilise but also begin to reduce public debt. It's the results that actually speak best. 2016 2.5% points, in 2017, according to our projections almost 3% points, and according to the draft budget standing in front of you, this dynamic will even accelerate, and this is on our side one base scenario, just before I was responding, made on one conservative evaluations and basics, projections, which say that simple control of public finances and their sustainability, something that the state has to do, as one direct impulse to the economy and to the taxpayers, because it is inevitable that we should do everything we can in this way, in order to be as little as possible and as little as possible, and so to say to the economy with our funding needs. Bringing the deficits to a practically balanced level opens all the space to the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60028	Thank you very much. Mr. Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60029	Thank you, Vice President. So, I just want to give a brief commendation in this budget, it's about financial decentralisation for funds that will receive units of local self-government from income tax. A law on the financing of units of local self-government still needs to be passed, but it will correct, among other things, a certain political distribution of funds from the central budget, because all of them by the same key, by the same standard and by the same scale, will be settled and thus balance the sustainability of life in the entire Republic of Croatia. What is seen in the government's documents is the tendency of political development of the Republic of Croatia, and it is likely that in the next period it will be a definition of what centres should be, other than financial resources, be similar and humane to ensure equally professional and equal development in the entire Republic of Croatia. In this direction, I have spoken several times about the funds of mining rents which, regardless of whether there will be additional income from local self-government units, therefore, municipalities, cities or counties, should be intended revenue. ... no municipal fee or income tax income is intended for income. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can be spent for all purposes, and this would be an additional impulse of finance, which would allow these capital projects to be developed, i.e. to facilitate by ensuring more frequent units of regional self-government in the realisation of the EU project. So, praise in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60030	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60031	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, here we are teaching on the topic of local self-government and administration, so I think that we as Government have shown very clearly how and how we view it, not only do we call our meetings with the mayors, representatives of associations, cities and municipalities, but also by doing what we have promised in some way and what we have committed ourselves to and what is in the way of our general thinking. As early as the first year, I repeat once again, so by tax discharge, we reduced the tax burden on income taxes, so we directly reduced the incomes of local and regional self-government units but compensated them directly from the state budget for that same amount. As a result of this, we are going with the new Finance Act and all other ideas between us, and this which you express about the distribution of income from ore rent and some others are also the subject of our internal and discussion and analysis, and we will certainly continue on this trail because we firmly advocate the approach that one quality redefinition should be made and among other things, a new definition of functional decentralisation, therefore very responsiblely discussing issues that have been brought down to the level of local self-government, whether we are talking about health, social or here this year or I will not tell the topic of fire control mainly this year. At the same time, we must provide funds to monitor this functional decentralisation in terms of the fiscal part. So your suggestions and others are certainly more than welcome. And on this trail, we also spoke and saw positive movements on the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srem in Slavonski Brod yesterday. Because through these funds provided as original incomes to local and regional self-government units, their maneuvering space is given for project implementation but more importantly for the implementation of projects funded by European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60032	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull has a word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60033	Thank you very much. Minister, I know your business is income and I'm going to turn to you for bankruptcy revenue. So we know that the state in a number of cases is either the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Finance or the IRS is in bankruptcy a distinct believer. And therefore, of course, as in many cases, if the state does not decide to forgive that debt, i.e. to make those funds for the benefit of the workers, to keep the workers out of money, without their earnings earned. So we have a case from Kamensky, Dalmatia and a number of other companies. And today I will mention the example of the Dalmatian woman. The Dalmatian woman is also in bankruptcy for nine years, workers expect their well-earned, i.e. workers pay. However, if the state does not waive its claims and units of local self-government and companies in their ownership, workers will receive zero kuna. And it's familiar. And of course it's the state's interest that she collects her claims as a decisive believer. However, what an injustice there is, I will give you an example. We have a car transport of Sinj, where the traffic of Makarska became a strategic partner and a contract was prescribed, i.e. the agreement on the consolidation of the company and the financial consolidation of the company. However, this company was destroyed, neither financially consolidated, nor we have more workers, employees, but even FINA opened the bankruptcy over the company a few days ago, officially because 8 million kuna in debt and 6 workers remained who did not receive the salary long ago, mostly defenders. It's my personal question, and that big-ass debtor like... Insurance co-signed by car transport as a strategic partner, i.e. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Transport Makarska, they're not, so they're not, they're still at your place, instead, after Promet Makarska destroyed one company to activate those creditors, to collect the money from the traffic, because he did not make a consolidation financially and thus damage the workers of the Dalmatian woman, Dalmatino. In fact, you'd have to protect here and the workers and the interests of the state because you know that these debtors are standing in your drawers so nicely activate from Prometheus, the Dalmatian traffic, Makarska here... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60034	Thank you. Mr. Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60035	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here's when you finally say that there's something in our drawers that implies that someone doesn't do something or doesn't do their job well enough. I just have to tell you about the problem of pre-determination and bankruptcy which is also unrelated only to the current situation with Agrokora but long before visible on numerous examples, including the one you're talking about. So it's a law that I can certainly say or at least assume that it's done in some kind of faith to facilitate, to help, to make things better, but there are always certain questionnaires and questions. You have now said well that it is our job to protect the interests and taxpayers as well as the workers. I can also tell you in countless cases that very often such interests are, unfortunately, opposed to each other because on the one hand we have a legal obligation in which way and how it primarily protects taxpayers and the state budget, but this part to workers in the context of the possibility you believe that we do but of course we cannot go beyond legal powers and borrowing. So, our situation with prejudices and bankruptcys, not a small number of times, you have a situation that the creditors have also addressed us with a complaint, a request or whatever, that simply on the Commissioner's council they're outvoted and there's practically no one to protect them anymore, their claims are simply written off. They all delivered to this society, within the Commissioner's council actually voted as if there was no longer any or a certain discount on the entire claim. Of course, we will continue to work in accordance with the rules of law that are in force but at the same time individual examples that you mention clearly show that it is very difficult, very difficult to find a unique solution that will be uniform and at the same time solve not a small number of times opposing goals like these mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60036	Thank you, too. Mr. Glasnović, he's gone. Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60037	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, members of the government. We have in place this budget and the resources of the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation. We see on the official pages of the agency that you, Mr. Maric, are the chairman of the administration, that agent Grozdana Peric is also in that administration and we also saw that under the authority of the agency, illegal loans were granted to Agrokor. One 2015, one 2016, via the Adriatic Bank, which is over-indebted, which is under resuscitated and that bank has given Agrokor credits greater than its core capital. So I'm wondering how did it come to be that a failed bank credited a failed company? Have these funds been recovered and will they be returned since Agrokor has major problems? How do you comment on the fact that Mrs. Hrebac, who has been running the agency since April 2016, has no longer been in office but is in some capacity of V.D.? That she was repeatedly convicted of conflict of interest, rightfully? So they're done. That it has been re-declared and that this same agency, the audit of the agency, is being carried out by the company Antares, which has been banned from the CNB for 2 years? To sit in that same audit house the same people sitting in that agency, so they're actually watching themselves? So here, please briefly answer these questions and also to answer the public, do you have any other similar loans planned through that agency that we know right away, that we don't have to then set up committees to investigate these things? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60038	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60039	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, the first part of your question is correct, and that is that the State Agency for Rehabilitation is, or for the insurance of savings roles and the resolution of banks, the legal council makes up my smallness, Mrs Peric and Mr Kosor according to functions and mandates. So, the finance minister, the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Economy, but of course there is someone who manages the agency, operationally on a daily basis, along with professional services. But this second part isn't exactly right because you're talking about the agency giving you some credit, so I'm going to remind you a little bit. The agency, of course, is not a credit institution, it is just in charge of securing savings deposits and rehabilitating banks. The Adriatic Bank, as until then, when a private bank came into trouble and the CNB submitted the measures and minutes it submitted, came to a crossroads or should have decided whether the bank was going bankrupt or going to rehab. The lady you mentioned, the director... Along with her team, she designed and created a model of recovery of the bank itself to save, among other things, the budgetary means so as not to activate the security of savings deposits while at the same time ensuring the continuation of the business of the same Adriatic Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Adriatic Bank has reduced and reduced its exposure to the Agrokor concert during its open-air recovery. At the same time, the Adriatic Bank today is in a situation where, but it is also the subject of the interest of some other banks, we have had one tender for selling it alone after being cleansed and cleaned through the recovery model and it is as such a good credit institution that we believe will soon have a new owner. Whether it's another Croatian bank or someone third, we'll see about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60040	Thank you, too. Mr. Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60041	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I would have liked to have referred my question to our prime minister since he and his well-known foreign affairs and personnel in the government are the last to decide on the budget, but I can also tell you as a member of his team for the economy because you must be part of that team. So, the government's priority, I would say the states, the declared priority is the country's economic recovery. We know that exports, investments, personal consumption or European funds are the engines of that one of our recoverys. Each State body should make its contribution to this fundamental state objective. The foreign and European ministry is the one that helps and gives logistics to our exporters, so it supports exports in their efforts to sell their goods and services outside this country. It has been recognised by the work of economic diplomacy, recognised by citizens and by our companies, and has been repeatedly praised. We at the ministry had the entire commendation archive we got from our companies. Many of your HDZ colleagues also say that economic diplomacy is what needs to concentrate Croatian diplomacy. Now, if the economy really is the priority of Croatia and this government, if it really is the recovery of the economy needs and the government asks each ministry to make its contribution, then I ask you how is it possible to re-cut the economic diplomacy item into the foreign ministry's budget? I support that the foreign ministry's budget has now been increased compared to last year, but within that increase, an additional item has been reduced compared to last year's economic diplomacy. And that's priority priority. So here's what I'm asking you to say because it's simply not clear because for the second time that the HDZ governments are doing it, you were also Minister of Oreshkovic's government when it first came to that and now for the second time. And a little symbolic increase for economic diplomacy would be a good message for both our economy and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60042	Thank you, thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60043	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, you as a longtime diplomat and senior official of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs know this issue well, I think we can agree by much that for the Croatian economy, above all, our exporters who are the strongest segment or one of the strongest segments of the Croatian economy and who show excellent results and even in the most difficult time, the era of recession. Recently, according to the latest data, Croatian exports have finally crossed 50% of GDP and certainly there is room for progress, there is economic diplomacy, of course, to be in service, but let us also have some strategic specifics and some tactical approaches as well as how to direct these funds. Economic diplomacy will not be neglected but not only through the possibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are some other institutions, mainly the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and other network of embassies in the world that need to be helped in some way and helped to place Croatian products throughout the global market in the promotion of Croatia, among other things, as well as tourism countries, and all aimed at further updating and strengthening both exports and goods and services. So, as far as the total division of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is concerned, their budget is growing by over 15%, so a hundred million kuna. Here we also involve different types of membership fees for our membership in international institutions which we also use for this particular purpose of lobbying for Croatia, imposing of course our companies and products but also for consular affairs, i.e. the entire network of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Republic of Croatia around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60044	You, too. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60045	Dear Vice-President, I would like to commend here the government's efforts to further stimulate the demographic policy of the Republic of Croatia through this budget, so these are more than 400 million kunas, which is a commendable measure. It also means through maternity benefits that are greater through both demographics and tax reliefs under tax reform. However, here I would point out one thing that was not spoken of, and I would like it to be spoken in the future, to be implemented as soon as possible. It is about creating an atmosphere for motherhood, or paternity in Croatia. No one has worked children for tax relief, and I think we should keep in mind that the climate in Croatia needs to be created, that the family is important, that motherhood and paternity is the most valuable thing that a man, through which a man in his life can be realized. And only in this way can we expect the demographic recovery of the Republic of Croatia normally with all these measures already implemented in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60046	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60047	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I can agree with you, of course, that, with all these measures that we have drawn and taken and that we will take, this element is certainly, in some ways, encouraging and positive, we can say both the news and the general atmospheres around the family, about motherhood, paternity and the like. I will refer, of course, to these measures that you mentioned among other things, so here we have little about tax reform, and in the context of the debate in the Croatian Parliament, we have ignored the fact that, precisely in tax reform, a significant step has been made in raising that part of the basic, basic deduction, i.e. the deduction for dependent members, of course, of children with marked progress towards a number of children. A colleague of Murganić, along with the Secretary of State responsible for Demography and their teams and team, is working on one approach that I think is already being seen, which is to watch demographics, measures demographic restoration as necessary to be comprehensive, comprehensive, not some kind of particular that will touch or touch one or another segment. What we have so far taken and also under the funds provided for in the 2018 budget and the projections for the years to come will be precisely on this trail. We consider it a government, and I am certain that all the representatives in Croatia and the public that demographics are certainly one of the key challenges and challenges, but also things that need immediate I would say catch up with and through these measures nothing can of course be solved overnight. But with one series of combined and combined work of different measures, then this part that you mention all together makes the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia better and sustainable in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60048	Thank you. Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60049	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I will not give the green light to the budget for one very important reason, which is that you and your ministry do not allow in loans in which banks have not legally agreed interest rates and interest rates to be regulated in a legitimate manner. In Croatia, banks charge 300% more interest than in Germany, Italy, Austria, Slovakia, but not because of the economy, but because interest in Croatia is illegal. We've talked about this more than once on a curtous one principle, but we haven't moved from the scene at all. I hope, by some miracle, that the Croatian Democratic Community, despite your opinion, will support this law, will release it into the second round. I have in my hands the opinion of the Croatian Democratic Community, a letter sent in July to the Franak Association, which was declared and unequivocally said that during 2017, a methodology for fixed interest margins must be regulated which are currently illegally over a hundred thousand loans. And I hope, by some miracle, that the law will pass in the second round, and then after that, I hope that your ministry and I will sit at the table together, that we will find compromise solutions and agree that the final proposal will be as it suits you. I've already said several times that the retroactiveness you honor me is ready to end, so I'm ready for the law to be applied in the future. And as for those other objections that you had under the law, they are not correct because the representative does not have to do all that is required of me. And besides, the Legislative Office has not answered me at all how I, as an agent, could meet these requirements. That's why I expect you to sit at the table and find a compromise solution after the law is passed in the second round, and I believe it will, after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60050	Thank you, too. And in the end, Mr. Greek. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60051	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, we are, of course, always ready to talk and debate, a constructive approach argued about what you are saying, and I am ready and ready for further discussion despite getting a very clear message and from some of the people of your association that I, as Minister of Finance, will never accept or support me. But we can talk about it further. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to tell you that as far as I'm concerned about myself and the Ministry of Finance are concerned, one of the key topics is that these circumstances that I was talking about, the fact that this year, through various operations on capital markets, we have been able to save domestically, make significant savings for the state budget, taxpayers, and not only say from the perspective that we can say something, but also from the perspective that it is important for the state budget of taxpayers directly, and so on about the economy and call all of us together on a private basis, because RH is finally going into the sphere that it can use benefits from global frameworks, high liquidity, low interest rates, and that it can in some way translate into reducing interest rates, debt prices, capital prices. Of course we don't have to stop at it, we don't have to be satisfied, the Republic still has different circumstances between us and the fact that we have a credit rating two steps below the investment floor but we've managed to run it and reverse it in the last year and a half days. After 20017 two final positive news from rating agencies, on this trail we will continue and do everything in our power to make the price of debt, the price of capital, government bonds, and so on indirectly Croatian entrepreneurs and taxpayers, or citizens as cheap as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60052	Thank you very much. Mr. Greek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So it's very short for the public to hear and know again. A little while ago, my colleague, Boric, was commenting here. So the largest individual annual deficit reduction in the budget occurred at a shift in economic trends in 2015 when the deficit was reduced by 2.3 percentage points in one year. In that year there was also a shift in the trend in public debt, then for the first time the public debt broke that rise line and went down, and everything else was the result of this economic trend of recovery which then continued in 2016 and now in 2017. However, something else I wanted to say today, this budget is not as ideal as we hear it tonight, this budget has several issues that will extend in the years beyond 2018. The first big thing is pensions, harmonising pensions that are going on is very expensive but not enough. Pensions continue to fall from the average wage and this is the biggest social problem currently in Croatia. The government must offer an alternative model or an additional model of pension harmonisation. The other big problem is, of course, health care, over 8 billion kuna debt, that debt is growing further, so the state is doing nothing. And what's most important 8 billion is the hidden deficit of people, let's once say 8 billion is something that's standing somewhere and it's not solved and it remains a permanent deficit until it's solved and that deficit is growing. It's not a classic deficit, but it's actually an unpaid claim and it's a public sector deficit, let's not run away from it. Here's the thing for now, and I'll talk about the other thing later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60054	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60055	Thank you very much. Your Honor, as far as these figures are concerned, I don't like to go the two decimals up or down right now, but when you say that 2015 is reduced by the highest percentage, so it's reduced from 5.1 to 3.3 and 2016 from 3.3 to 0.9, so even greater adjustment. Not to mention the absolute amounts was the 2015 deficit in 2014. 17 billion, so it was reduced to 11, and we reduced it to levels that I had just told you at two billion levels or the first six months of this year we had even an surplus in the budget of 35 million, but still 35 million surpluses, one new word in the Croatian vocabulary or the public finances dictionary. As for the health debt and the whole problem... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first six months. ... I'll explain it all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So as far as health care is concerned, both in the years and in the figures you speak 2014, 2015 and 2016, 2017 health debts as such exist. [[You will now get the word right after..../]] You know very well that what enters the annual account of deficits and the budget is that delta change of debt whether you increase or decrease it. The debt is practically at the same levels as it was at the end of your government's mandate, despite the fact that it was implemented significantly, the health recovery of the 6.5 billion kuna, which is evident on this revenue side of the budget as long as it brought within a short period of time, was practically neutral or did not bring any benefit and the money was spent, and the health system did not come to a sustainable level. So as for the very data on debt and deficit, of course I'm always ready for further and arguments and debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60056	Thank you. Now we've exhausted both the replicas and the breaks. And now does the rapporteur want to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Djakic, the War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60058	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, state... with associates and state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At its 7th session held on 15 November 2017, the Council discussed the proposal for the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and the projection for 2019, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act on 2 November 2017. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In part of the budget providing funds for the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, military and civilian disabled, veterans of war, and former political prisoners. The national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 planned total revenues of € 129 billion and total expenditures of € 133.3 billion. This results in a planned budget deficit of 4.3 billion kuna, i.e. a budget deficit of 0.5% of GDP. As regards the funds for the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders, it should be stressed that in 2018, a new Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, whose implementation amounts to 180 million kunas more than in 2017, has been planned for 2018, amounting to a billion 319 million 854 thousand 268 kuna. Which is 16% higher than planned in 2017. The largest share in these funds is intended for the achievement of permanent rights. These are personal disability, family disability, fees and others planned at a height of 700.1 million kuna, which is an increase of 35.5 million kuna or 5.4% of the funds for housing are planned at an altitude of 87.1 million kuna, which is an increase of 21%. The once-rights funds are planned at an amount of 92.4 million kuna, an increase of 23%. Defence funds are planned at 10.6m kuna, which represents an increase of 11.5%. The funds for defence associations are planned at 18.8m kuna, which is at last year's level. The funds for exhumation, notification and burial of Homeland War victims are also increasing by 1.7 million or 31%. The funds intended to rehabilitate military disabled people in healthcare facilities remain at 7.3 million kuna last year. The funds intended for the Public Constitutional Centre of the Homeland War Vukovar are planned at 34.6% of the million kuna, a slight increase compared to last year's funds. For the first time in the budget, funds were also planned for the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War at the height of 15 million kuna. In HZMO's head, funds were planned for defenders' pensions of 4.49 billion kuna, an increase of 8.6% compared to last year's. The increase stems from the fact that a 10% pension reduction has ceased under the special rules of pension insurance and the fact that part of the provisions of this Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families relating to minimum pensions will apply in 2018. The members of the committee in the debate praised the increase in the funds planned for the care of Croatian defenders in 2018 and stressed that it is extremely important that the rights prescribed by the new law be implemented and implemented by means of insurance of the necessary funds. The need for a faster opening of veteran centres has also been discussed since only one in Lipik has been opened so far. In response, the EU funds provided an amount of 22m euros for the opening of centres in Daruvar, Petrinja, Sibenik, Sinj and Osijek, and, after resolving administrative barriers, the opening of those centres will begin. The reason why all pension insurance rights prescribed by the new law will not be implemented in 2018 lies in the fact of the enforceability of the law, or fiscal responsibility, since, as a result of the suspension of the pensions of more than 5 000 kuna, the funds intended for Croatian defenders' pensions in 2018 have been increased by 260 million kuna. After the debate was held, the committee voted largely, 8 votes for and 2 votes abstentions, reached a conclusion proposed by the Croatian Parliament to adopt the state budget for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020 as well as budgetary users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60059	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate first by clubs, first Mr. Bozo Petrov, club of representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60060	Honored members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I could joke first because the finance minister agrees with most of the comments then we can expect a lot of accepted amendments to this account tomorrow. Unfortunately, I can only say the damage, the damage of the opportunity, and I think that is a realistic assessment of the draft budget for 2018. I have no intention of criticizing only to criticise, I will initially strip the story, simplify, call things by the right name so that absolutely everyone who is following this today will be clear and what the draft budget and vision of the government and the missed opportunity. I'd just like you to imagine your home budget. You have 2 options on the table how you can become richer and thus allow your children either education or apartment, job, two options. One option is to save, to give up the luxury, to earn a certain fund of money, and then help all of these children or those generations that come behind you. Of course, in all this you will also spend certain arrangements for your home budget so that you can better welcome the future because it still needs to be prepared for dark times. The other option you have besides saving is a smart investment. Let's just say you have a vision of a job that you remembered or someone told you. You will deprive some of the funds from your monthly budget, you will sacrifice a part of the luxury, you will invest and this job will then bring you more income, you will automatically increase your monthly budget and you will be able to make it more possible for your children. That's two options. Either one or the other. Of course, there is unfortunately a third option in the Republic of Croatia, and that is all those people who live today in a way that they cannot provide their children with either the first or the second quality of life. But now to make the story simpler, I'm going to talk about the first two options. Unfortunately, you will either save or you will have a vision and everything else is gurgling, living, spilling from the hollow to empty with a paradigm “don’t wave”. When you're more comfortable with the situation in life, all the surrounding factors go to the guy's hand that you're all right at work, that the family absolutely doesn't hurt, that you have time to devote yourself to your job, your future. Won't you then take advantage of the possibility of planning your future better, taking advantage of that opportunity to prepare yourself for what happens later in life? What's it gonna take for you to decide to do anything? Here's what I'm curious about exactly what's going to happen to you because you know that a great time won't last, that you'll have to take care of your parents, that you'll have to give your children education? What does it take for you to decide to do anything? For comparison, this is the State budget proposal for 2018. They neither decided to save nor decided to invest in quality. This is a certain mix here and there without structural reforms. All of our factors that we had around us, all of the external factors that we don't influence, have contributed to us. You have growth in the economy in Europe, you have a positive cycle that indirectly brings in more income or brings in an opportunity to gain greater income, you have historically low interest, you have a geopolitical situation in the Mediterranean, which is why you have a record growth in the tourist sector. You've got it all. In the end, the government decided to do nothing with that difference of GDP. Theodore Roosevelt once said: “At all times the best decision is to do a good thing. The worst decision is not to do anything." And that's where I'll just be right. They made something they shared with her hand and hat like Santa Claus wasn't coming tomorrow. In my view, the budget has no R of development, no S of social, no K of consolidated because most of it is subsidized by reducing the share of debt in GDP with the purchase of peace in order to define at the end of the term of office that we are willing to listen and that Brussels can grant us mercy so that we can introduce the euro. It's some kind of ultimate obvious government goal. And now some information with numbers and predictions. The 2018 budget was made under the GDP growth assessment by 2.9%, while the deficit of the general budget was estimated at 0.5% of GDP in 2018. In other words, we continue to spend more than we earn. In 2019, the budget balance is planned, in 2020, to be balanced. Public debt is projected to fall to 79.8% by the end of this year and 69.5% of GDP in 2020. This might sound nice in the short term, right now. However, a more detailed analysis shows the other side of the story. The general government deficit experienced a significant decrease in 2015 and thereafter in 2016. At that age, the weekly public debt has been reversed. He began to shrink for the first time. The consolidated state deficit in 2014 was 5.4% of GDP, down to 3.4% of GDP in 2015, to 0.8%. From this year on, the trend has slowed significantly, so 2017 is 0.6%, 2018. 0.5% and therefore we think that the planned decline in the general deficit is 0.1% of GDP for 2018 is far from sufficient, especially in terms of GDP growth. Furthermore, the proposal for a budget for 2018 The government predicts that total revenues will be €129 billion and will be 6.1% higher than the current budget, while the total expenditure for 2018 will be € 133.3 billion, i.e. 5 billion higher, and it says so everywhere. However, the planned expenditure for 2018 is not increased by 5 billion kuna, but by 6 and a half billion kuna. Because in the rebalancing, the 2017 expenditure is reduced. In relation to the budget rebalance, the planned revenue and expenditure for 2018 compared to the rebalancing for 2017 is, in percentage, lower due to the rise in the amount of the budget, although the deficit per absolute figure is the same. So, in a favourable macroeconomic environment, there is nothing of financial consolidation, there is nothing of structural reform and creating an area for anticyclical action at the moment of the new crisis, unfortunately lack of visionaryism and long-term strategy. In particular, a mass item pays on the expenditure side of the budget, which grows 5.4% and nearly 1 and a half billion kuna in 2018, and then the next two years is expected, is expected to practically stagnation. How realistic is it, how realistic is it that after the growth of over 5% in terms of GDP growth unions will not ask for anything, they will suffer stagnation? Not at all, I'm sure. That is why we believe that this item is underestimated budget expenditure in projection for 2019 and 2020, especially given that the 2020 election year then these parties like to share. Structural fiscal adjustment is probably completely gone. We are left with happiness, hoping that business cycles and external positive circumstances will continue to improve with greater intensity than now, as only in this case can the public debt reduction be maintained. In addition, the government has decided to go into the introduction of the euro, and I do not understand it because exactly because of the introduction or the desire to introduce the euro should implement structural reforms. Total factor productivity and labour productivity in the economy reflect negative trends, which means there is no basis to expect an increase in the potential growth of the economy. And this increase in the economy is necessary for the convergence of the Croatian economy towards the euro zone. In his last report, the IMF itself wrote that public debt should fall 60% by 2022 if the euro is to be introduced. It's much more ambitious than the planned 70% in 2020. The IMF's opinion from the last visit to Croatia is that the structural deficit has deteriorated. That opinion is shared by the European Commission. Individual items of the budget have no need to comment because nothing is changing. Issuing for science does not mean improving science but only returns to unions for their patience in order to gain their patience in 2018. And what kind of message is being sent to citizens when investing in education is last on the list? How do you expect the state to be more competitive? I'm guessing they weren't running the Franklin Syntagma to invest in knowledge best returns, that it best returns what's invested. I think some other syntagms were on their mind, too. But I'm also sorry, it's not the Ministry of Education last, I've seen that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice have also gone down to the bottom, you even took them away, they haven't had any growth. And it's the same in line with the promises you've shared in your pre-election time that you have an extremely important judiciary, that education is extremely important to you. Of course, this is not an objection to Mr. Maric's orders. Excess revenue in the budget is the result of the recovery of Europe and positive cycles, not so-called partial and poor fiscal reforms. This is seen in the end from the very macroeconomic forecasts given by the Government since 2018-2020, where less GDP growth is expected than in 2017, and then someone here needs to explain to me how we can boast, or that the Government boasts of a super-reformed reform, and then foresees a decline in 2018, 2019, 2020. If they boast, let them boast for years to come when it's up to them. If I were to reform it, I would expect it to keep growing and more every year, not falling. If it's up to me. Unfortunately, we will not get an answer from this, the Ministry of Finance has obviously plannedly combined the rebalancing story in 2017 and the story of the introduction of the euro, and the story of responsible fiscal policy and consolidation. And for us, this is a classic replacement of resources and goals. So the euro will not settle your public debt, nor will it implement reforms, nor will it solve deficits in the health and pension system. And the budget surplus planned in 2020 with a cumulative GDP growth of less than 10% cannot be a guarantee of a reduction in public debt, especially because interest rate growth is expected. And I don't know if you put that into your predictions? The lack of investment and state spending shows that only one card is played, and that is personal consumption, and it is obviously not enough for GDP to be above 3%. What's very important is more to say you and artificially read GDP, send people out, cut pensions that are already done. You're going to have a great GDP, great, it's just a question of who's going to live in a country like that, who's going to stay? Therefore, the draft budget cannot be considered stabilising but stagnational. At the end of 2018, the Croatian economy will be even more lagging behind the EU average, especially in the Central and Eastern European countries, for which more growth rates are forecasted than Croatia. The budget will also be under the risk of Brexit, the growth of interest rates in the euro zone as well as the uncertainty of Agrokor. And this budget can be freely called stable stagnation, the budget is subordinated exclusively to the introduction of the euro, not Croatian, but the Brussels budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60061	Thank you. You have a lot of replicas, so you'll be able to make up for it. The first replica, Mr. Marco Squistle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. So here, I can tell my colleague that you've said well that this is actually a mix of good situations that the state has, but I'm going to say a mix in which I'm going to include actually that he's carrying a lot of broken promises. The first thing HDZ announced in the campaign was a reduction in value added tax, so, after two years to 24% after that to 23%, it was supposed to happen now in the first half, meaning early in 2018, of course not in this budget proposal, but it is no wonder of HDZ because it is already the third time they are promising to cut VAT. And Ivo Sanader still promised there in early 2000, so then Tomislav Karamarko, so this tradition just keeps going. They also promised to speed up, actually withdraw funds from the European Union Fund, and they can testify specifically to it as head of the local self-government unit that there is no real movement, that today the programme that we have to measure 7 from the rural development programme is waiting for more than a year for the results of the competition, and the minister here has assured us on two occasions now will be over a week or two. That was said in the sixth month, he also said recently at the current hour early this month. And the third thing is to activate the state property of abandoned hotel facilities, land, apartments are also not done anything and we don't have it in this draft budget. And I'll end up with one more thing. Croatia was faced with major elemental disasters last year, the government rebalancing raised that amount of 20 million to 100 million kuna, and we now remain in the proposal for a budget for 2018 at the amount of 20 million kuna despite the damages of more than billions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60063	Thank you. Mr. Petrov, you didn't lift. But we're good today, so we'll approve. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60064	I've been listening to my fellow MPs, and I'll raise my hand in the future. Thank you. Thank you. [[We're good and we'll allow it. Here you go.]] My colleague and I can fully agree, but these are not the only increases that you have made, but the only promises made by HDZ in the election campaign. There's a better joke that's very appropriate to today's situation, very current. So they said we will strengthen legal certainty because it is a prerequisite for economic development. Now I'm curious as to how their HDZ colleagues are strengthening legal security? Among other things, it was there for education, and I'm just going to stay here on this concept. Legal security is syncope. Legal certainty is what happens today at DSV or what happens in the Constitutional Court. Legal certainty is to abolish funds for the Justice Department. Legal certainty is that you... acted under the proposed laws we left for you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it legal certainty that you didn't want to be conducted testing candidates for judges publicly? Is the legal certainty you promised a year ago? And we can continue, we can discuss the education that you mentioned you would raise to 2%. 7 billion kunas, 7 billion kunas you promised in research and development. Do you know how much your budget is all about the Ministry of Education? Four and a half percent. You've raised the State Department 17 and a half percent, and you'll probably be doing branches there. Excuse me. 17 and a half percent, Ministry of Education 2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60065	Thank you, too. Mr. Greek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you said that well. Global factor productivity in Croatia is stagnating, dropping at an extremely low level. And what is also important is the key determination of very low potential growth rates in Croatia. That's what she said the other day, and I agree with it, Deputy Prime Minister Dalic, at a presentation. And I had a chance on Monday to de-polomize a little with Minister Maric on this particular subject. So you were right when you said this was a rather unambitious story with this budget, and what really surprised me was a completely unambitious projection of economic growth. Did you notice that? This year it's 3.2, next year it's 2.9, then 2.6, then 2.5. What's he saying? In fact, it says that the government does not believe in the good future that we are measuring, in fact, through the rate of economic growth, because it also comes from then the revenues of the budget and the financing of social needs, investment and development and everything else. So, just this is an indication that the government doesn't believe it. Minister Maric's answer was conservative projections. Yes, I welcome that reserve and the caution that exists in the projections, but that's not the answer. The answer is actually what we need to do to make the rate in the coming years greater than 3.2% because we can't say on the one hand that we are looking back at all transition countries and that we are still lagging behind, and on the other hand very conservatively assess economic growth in a way that this economic growth in the coming years is going to be smaller and smaller.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60067	Thank you. Mr. Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60068	A fellow Greek, so I think you've given an answer to your question, but here I can at least commend that they've been fairly honest once. So, except that they don't trust themselves, but I think it's very well known that if you yourself predict that GDP growth is going to decrease, it means that you're aware that you didn't do anything to make it grow. It's nothing done, it means to make you depend on yourself. There's a people's trust in moving and in your pecks, and we obviously prefer to rely on everything that's going on in Europe, hoping to go on those wings and now how the wind blows in our backs that it's going to blow all the time. One day they'll blow into our chests, and then, unfortunately, someone else will have to solve all these problems that HDZ promised to solve. But then again, I'll say so, at least they were fair here. But apart from that part of honesty, I really expect them to convince us all in the next year, to surprise us, to make everything they promised. If anyone calls them, I'll call them if they do. So much for what I believe you want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60069	Thank you, too. Mrs Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60070	Dear colleague Petrov, she has a folk, I will forgive you for everything, but not success. So what you're talking about is this budget. So, about all these trends, public debt, GDP growth and everything else, you mention how you should save and you can't invest, and you forget the period of the 6-year recession when you actually had to create a prerequisite for something like this to happen. And when that happens, it should also be carefully guarded or developed. You forget that previous governments have promised to repay debt or increase wages with GDP growth, that is 6%. It is all something that needs to be served and serviced from this budget and needs to ensure future and sustainability in order to continue to exist. So you can't share something you don't have and you can't spend more than you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60071	Mr. Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60072	My colleagues, I don't really understand one thing. You're saying now, you can't spend more than you have. Are you then aware of how much you spend and how much you earn? Are you aware that you are currently spending more than you are paying? Well, I hope you're aware because then you obviously didn't look at the numbers. So you're spending more at the moment. And the only one who, when we talk about it, is success and all, so the only one who's managed to get close enough to get to the one... Zero, is Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic the moment I was vice president of the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You could've forgiven his success then, and I'm sorry, you didn't, you replaced him. You've replaced him here. The man who reduced you from 3.4% of GDP deficits to 0.8% of you thanked him in half a year and chased him away. Bravo. And what you were determined to say, as you said, when something like this happens, it's a genius structure. And now I don't know what happened to you because it obviously means that it happened by accident, and then we need to take better care of it. And maybe you're watching it happen by accident, it didn't happen by accident, and I have to warn you, it didn't happen by accident. Because Mr. Maric was Minister of Finance and in the last government, the one you chased away, which was yours. And then he had different orders, and then he had to watch what was being spent. And that's when 3.4% fell to 0.8% of the deficit. And if you had any ambition we'd have a surplus this year and... That's too bad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll just say the damage to the occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60073	Thank you. Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Petrov, you spoke about the country of knowledge and how much Croatia invests in education, I think these are known facts that we are 0 EU after investing in education and that no government has recognized this as the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. But I will look back on one thing, in the budget there is a slight increase in the remuneration and scholarship of students and students. And at the same time, which I am giving absolute support for has increased the award item for athletes. Well, I'm afraid this year we wouldn't have the situation as we did if for rewarding students who don't actually belong to tax relief students and students who are actually rewarded by the state won nothing because they're in the system of tax scissors, they're left with nothing. And since the budget wasn't there, not increasing, drastic increases I think we're going to have the same situation that students and our students who are going to get rewards actually won't get anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60075	Mr. Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60076	My colleague, I would like to quote Mr Plenkovic's statement in August 2016. "If we want to be competitive and develop in the long term, we must invest in education and science. That is why we have put in the programme that safe separation will reach 2% of GDP as otherwise invested at EU level, which means that around 7 billion kuna will invest in research and development. Do you see, colleague of Sladolev, those figures happen to be in the budget? Let's go like this, here, I'll forgive you half, right? Am I going to forgive you for another half? Now what's of great importance, aside from all the fighting, aside from everything, if you don't improve, if you don't increase investment in education, if you don't allow all those who are talented, all those who have the opportunity to advance, if you don't give them better education, much more Croatia than you have in the last 2 years, will move away in the next 2, 3 years. And that's your responsibility. I will not enter a reform of education that will obviously never happen because you have poisoned it completely with ideological wars. But you can do some things without it, increase investment in research and development, allow people better education, more adequate labour market, give Croatia the opportunity to breathe, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60077	Thank you very much. Mr. Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60078	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Petrov, so I see that you are well prepared for this topic, you have mentioned two things that I love very much in my political engagement and the work of the last few years that is savings and development. So I agree that it could have been more budget and developmental and that it could have been more thriftful. I'm going to ask you if, from the time you were before the government, you were the leader of the union negotiations group, did you have any talks on savings other than, as you were now saying, that the share of 2020 would be decided on the division of the regress directly for all state officials and tenants prior to the elections. And I'm going to ask you for your famous statement, convinced by the public notary, that officials, or parliamentarians, should have a salary of £10,000. Whether it will be one of your amendments to this 2018 budget. I will be very happy to sign and support and you gather the rest of your hands, so just let them be yours from the Bridge Club. Here I will certainly be very happy to join you that here, by example, we show that we are willing to save, that we can ask other groups that are in the same budget to move into savings, to create investment areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60079	Mr. Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60080	Comrade Lackovic, do you remember when we proposed a request, i.e. a bill here in the assembly, that the salary was reduced and that you remember how you voted. Do you remember voting against it to say today that you're up for it? Maybe something happened with you? Something may have happened, but here, it doesn't matter. Write down the bill, I'll support it right now. Unlike you, the moment we did it, you didn't support it. That's number one. Number two, we've also asked you to cancel 6 plus 6, did you support that? And that was saving. Did anyone else support this besides the Bridge? Great. Let the citizens give us a chance, for 76 hands, and then you'll see, as long as you block, supposedly independent, as long as you block, it's hard to do something. But we're trying and we're not gonna stop. That's what matters. There are few of us, but we're getting systematically slow. What you won't get, you won't get surrender. That might be what you'd like most. And as far as the public notebook is concerned, I have to tell you something really corny. It's really corny. At the moment when you step all in for the sense of responsibility, because the people expect that part, you pull out and pull out, great. Now I'm going to ask you a question, where have you been for a year and a half? We want to extract your responsibility and all decisions and laws as you voted. Among other things, as you can see right now, you've voted for the government if I can remember. So you voted against the pay cut, you voted against 6 + 6. Well done, Mr. Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60081	Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60082	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Petrov, therefore, in your discussion you have described 2 actually strategies, 2 ways to control home finances, and in public finances, on the one hand, you mentioned the deficit. And you pointed out that this deficit, although reduced, still hides increased consumption, public consumption, because we have economic growth. And now the key question is whether they are satisfied with this economic growth and why in the future we do not strive for this economic growth to be greater rather than smaller. For this to happen, structural reforms are crucial. Among other things, one of the reforms is education reform, education system. We have an inflexible education system. If you ask entrepreneurs, they do very little or in no way actually affect the education system, they regularly complain or complain that students or students who finish, when they finish school they do not have the necessary level of knowledge related to practice. So we dogma around the knowledge society would actually be replaced with the competence society. In this respect, and the budget that provides for education allocations is not good, especially in the context of seeing that economic growth is based among other things except demand and on increasing demand and exports, and when we look at the structure of our exports, then high-tech goods exports are participating with less than 10%. So, in order for the Croatian economy to be competitive, both domestic and external markets, investment and innovation in education are needed and this is the only way, this competitiveness and the Croatian economy and the exit of this society from the crisis. And the end of preventing many young people from leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60083	Thank you. Mr. Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60084	Comrade Sagar, I think that absolutely everyone in the assembly should be a citizen first. We've got their trust. I'll never stop pointing that out. And no matter how long this assembly lasts. We can fight as much as we can. It's only a question for me on Fridays, when it's usually a vote, those hands when someone raises for certain drafts of the law, are they held responsible for what they've done? And what I can tell you is that we suggested it. We have proposed constructive ways to address the problem. We have proposed amendments to the executive law, which would actually solve the problems blocked. They didn't accept. They also refused our way of buying INA, because unfortunately in our ransom, our way of buying INA no sale of HEP, no commissions, no consulting services. And what's very important, we won't stop proposing, I just hope that those who are currently in the majority will overcome the sense of responsibility and will realize that above the party is the homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60085	Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60086	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, here you go, fellow Petrov, you've done well. He is neither thrifty nor protagonist; he is the one who is weak in water, nor the warm in you, nor the only thing that cools you that you are intruded in him, so he gives nothing. Unfortunately, the budget is the most important document of the government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Prime Minister has escaped from this House and does not want to hear criticism, perhaps commending opposition and ruling MPs who unfortunately comment less and less. But I think you should sit here and listen to what's being said, not just send a minister who's here patiently, I have to commend him, listen to everything that's being said today. I think in this budget there is no item or chapter, call whatever you want that would be called promises that will never come true. I will remember, and I always repeat that to my colleagues of one quote from one of my acquaintances of a HDZ member who said, it doesn't matter how much money there is in the budget there's always enough for us. And I think even this government and today's HDZ are acting that way. I'll remind you of that one quote because I see the budget increasingly relying on what we're going to get from Europe, which we're going to get from someone that Stephen Radic said in one of his speeches, "You've pissed him off to whoever's waiting for bread from someone else's bag." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60087	Thank you very much. Mr. Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60088	My colleague, I really hope that if this is a missed opportunity this year there is an opportunity and a budget rebalance next year, there is an opportunity for a new budget. I would like those who manage the budget especially the Prime Minister because he is the one who determines, to realize that no one will care for him, but we will applaud the moment he implements structural reforms, we will applaud. Don't be afraid of it because it's the only thing that can keep us safe at the moment when black times come, and it will come just as it was a recession before, so it came positive, so it was a recession. The oscillations are normal, it's just a question of what we do in fertile years, what we do to preserve ourselves in moments of self-time when bad times come. I ask you to take this opportunity, take the opportunity will not last long, take the opportunity for all Croatian citizens. They have the right to live in a high-quality state in an orderly state, they have the right to live exactly in what you promised last year, make such a state, and it will certainly be good for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60089	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60090	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you told your colleague Petrov what needs to be done. I'd say, what should happen to you on behalf of the first opposition club today, five and a half minutes, don't say anything. What should happen to you not to see that this budget puts the Croatian man and citizen first, of those youngest, of the parental and maternity benefits for which it is predicted in the following year 156.6 million more, further pensions and pension benefits of 1.4 billion kuna, for the employees of 1.2 billion kuna, Croatian defenders increasing 41.9 million kuna and so on. Furthermore, we know especially who we were at the head of cities and municipalities that our citizens feel our cities and municipalities and those resources. This is the first government and this is the first budget in which there are no funds left to cities and municipalities. Well, that's what it's gonna be like. Your Metkovic, so Sinju be 20 and a little bit more in the budget for next year, thanks to this government and thanks to this budget. I'd say is it really such a situation for you to vote against it? Are you putting your man first? It's a message sent by this budget. You wondered what kind of message was being sent to the citizens. Citizens first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60091	Thank you very much. Mr. Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60092	My colleague, something must have enlightened you in the last year because now that I'm listening to you, it's the right thing to do... right. And why didn't you say that last year? That's what you were supposed to say last year and you're going to get the election because that's what's right. But you didn't win this election you're talking about right now, you won the fake election promises. So you promised better judiciary, you cut the judiciary, you promised seven billion in research and development, you're not even at 1% of GDP, and now I'm not counting what you promised. And then you have forgiveness, but you have the nerve to say that's what we need. No, I'll say that what you promised last year is education, better justice, a fairer system, more efficient health care, more efficient public administration, that's what Croatia needs. That's what you said last year, so I don't know what happened to you? Here's what I want to see. I invite you, please, I invite you to use it well for the next year, do it if not for the 2018 budget, but make it for 2019. People will be patient, but do it the way you promised to do it. Then I'll give you support, make public administration better, make the justice system more transparent, more efficient, equal for all, do it, and if you do it then you'll get support. As for Metkovic and other local self-government, we'll see how the story ends. But what you also avoided from doing, you avoided making public and local administration reform, avoided, for months already in your drawer standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60093	Mr. Petrov, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60094	All the measures you were supposed to take, you didn't make Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Time's up, sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60095	Mr. Lalovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Petrov, I must admit that you have had a very good debate and that you have very well cut the budget especially in this context of missed opportunities or of these opportunities we will unfortunately no longer have in the future. We remember very well there in 2003, 2004, when we had economic growth and greater than we are now seeing tax revenues growing, and on the other hand, how our commitments in the budget and the cementing of expenditure grew. Then there was a crisis where our taxes fell more than three times more than our economy. And that's what you've well warned today because in the next crisis, God forbid it will happen, but it will happen because as it happens and we will see how it is happening and difficult it is to recover and the European Euro-zone and how Europe will be at more speed, unfortunately we no longer have repairs. We'll go to over 100% of the gross domestic product in terms of public debt, and then the painful cuts will be much more difficult than you're proposing today in this part of structural reform. And I think that when Germany did its reforms, you know when it did them, and it did them in years of growth, because then there was a much smaller impact on the economy, on social tensions, on the overall social climate, then reforms are being made, not when the economy is actually less than 7 or 10% because then the recession is deepening. And that's why I'm sorry she didn't take advantage of this opportunity this year that you warned her well, but I hope next year will be. But you know we're going in then and in election years, and then I'm afraid the budget will explode even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60097	Mr. Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60098	My colleague, for that reason, I've been warning all along. Well, it's clear that at a time when you have growth, when you're making bigger resources, when people have a better way of life, and work that less that part will feel, that more things will be possible to implement, that you'll have a less riot, a revolution, that if you do structural reforms, people will have a greater opportunity to get a job because of the movement of the market. And a million things are easier. The worst part is, the worst thing is that Roosevelt said: “The worst thing you can do is do nothing. ” But I really hope no matter the budget the government can implement reforms. I really hope they make them. If it is not about the promises they won the elections, then I expect it to do so for the sake of Croatian citizens, so if nothing, I expect and maybe it's funny, and I hope not that these HDZ MPs will force them. Yet they raise their hands for them. You want to make them do something good? Here, please, if Andrei Plenkovic doesn't want to, make him. Make a man do something good. It's been a year. 25% of the time to use these 75%, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60099	Mr. Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm not nearly as dramatic as my colleague Petrov, but I think I prefer to speak in some numbers. There's a lot of talk about science. I'd just like to list some science figures in some key sectors. It means how much these investments have been increasing since this government arrived. So, the Croatian Foundation for Science specifically increased compared to 2015 means 20% in the last year of the term of office of the previous Government. Contracting financing of scientific activities increases compared to 2015 36%. Doctors, post-doctors mean those best-quality young people whose survival in Croatia we are struggling to increase compared to 2015 2 and a half times. So we're talking about the figures from the state budget. I would also point out that, in the term of office of the Government from 2012 to 2015, a total drought was the entry of new young people, young doctorates into the system. So if this government doesn't invest in young personnel and fight emigration from Croatia, then I don't know who does. Another thing I would like to say about these billions of EU funds. So, specifically this year, it's already agreed on the science of 373 million kuna for scientific centres of excellence. It's a contest that's been standing for years. At present, tenders are under way, which are almost the end of the European Regional Development Fund, amounting to about a billion kuna, which will be agreed at the end of this year or early next year and are currently fully prepared for three projects. So Calthier, Zoys,... also financed from the European Regional Development Fund also weighs nearly 800 million kuna. If we add that we have tripled the number of social scholarships, we have introduced the rate of scholarships that have been announced in a programme that has not existed in this way before, I think this is the largest investment in science and science infrastructure in the last 20 years in Croatia. So I pray that when we talk about being a little less theatrical, we talk a little less about the media and we do more about facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60101	Mr. Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60102	Don't be mad at my way of carrying things because I really don't know when I'm talking normally I don't believe you hear it. That's a little bit of a problem because you can't hear, so then I have to kind of turn up the tone or do something to be attractive to you so says Andrej Plenkovic attractive. That's the problem. One thing that was very interesting in your presentation, it is interesting to talk about the period 2015, 2017 is slept through winter sleep. Did you know that in the meantime there was another government that made more? Did you know that during that period the Fund for Science was increased 8 million kunas and that by the way it was not your proposal, but the proposal of the Mosta and that it was abolished by political parties? Why don't you just make a comparison 2011 through 2015. 2015 until the end of 2016 and 2016 end and 2017 only to see your results. Don't get all cocky with someone else's feathers! That's not your feathers. You chased that man away. Understand, you chased that man away. Analyze 2017 no 2016 She doesn't belong to you. You chased that man away, and he didn't just turn it up. If anyone has reduced public debt ever and turned a trend, then it is Tihomir Oreshkovic, but you have driven him away. Make a clear comparison in 2017, 2016 because it is not your Government and 2011 until 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60103	Easy, easy, easy. Mr. Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60104	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Petrov, you said, among other things, that individual items should not be commented because nothing is changing. Nothing changes compared to previous years, to previous budgets. Unfortunately, you have supported the two previous budgets, you have supported policies and funding policies in which nothing has changed. So, I'm afraid you're not credible when you talk about it from this position, if the coalition had survived, if you were in power, you'd still support any budget that HDZ is placing. If you really wanted to make reforms you should have said no, this budget is not good, there are too many differences between our reform programme that we would have wanted and that we announced and what this budget offers. And you wouldn't have made a budget for Oreshkovic, nor would you have made that budget that was made in these months last year. HDZ simply should not have been brought to power under these conditions. So I'm asking you, what's the perspective? Will you bring such similar budgets with the SDP now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60105	Thank you very much. Mr. Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60106	My friend Son, I really have no intention of fighting. All I'm going to say to you on your entire speech is take responsibility and act and I want you to do it because I believe that there are qualities in the Living Wall and that the Living Wall can do it. But you can't just be in Parliament for two years and say everyone else is bad. I believe that you will agree with me if you compare 2016 and 2017 and at least according to the draft budget and what was done, that 2016 and what Tihomir Oreshkovic did better than what was done. But unlike some of the others who sold out for chairs, the moment we saw we couldn't do something, we went twice, twice. Nobody did that to us! So for us citizens are all and the trust given to us by the citizens, the responsibility given to us by the citizens obliges us to try to do something not to just stand in the Parliament. But the moment we're conditioned by something bad, we'll never sell ourselves. Well, I guess that's clear to both the right and the left, but we need to take responsibility, and I urge you to take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60107	Thank you. Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you have well detected that this government is not in the interest of keeping the promise of investment in science, the research that is the key, should actually be the driver of Croatia's economic growth. Unfortunately, however, we still do not understand it. The budget is the most important document. He's not talking about good wishes, promises, he's talking about real intentions. And you've made an excellent detection. Some of you here have tried to deny your numbers and convince you that you've never invested in science and research for the past five years, so let's talk a little bit about numbers. The program of training of scientific recruits is reduced, investment in the program of training of scientific recruits, means young people, investments in young scientists from 35 million are reduced to 23 million. The scientific centres of excellence for the socio-humanist area from 5 million are reduced to 900 thousand million. It's a decrease of about 82%. Looks like they're giving up. Keep going. The international mobility programme for researchers from 5.6 million is being reduced to 700,000. So it's the same for about 88%. Scholarships for students of weaker socio-economic status from 59 to 55 million kuna. All of these are unfortunately figures that have been denied by Mr Sokol that have never again been invested in science and research, and they contribute to your claim that unfortunately we have missed the opportunity not to fulfill the promise, but we have missed the opportunity to take another year off from this bottom of the European scale where we are with Romania, Cyprus and Latvia when we talk about research into science and get closer if not to Finland, Sweden, Denmark, and even to our neighbouring Slovenia. Because what we invest today in research, science and education guarantees us tomorrow the quality of human resources. They are the only competitors and can drag the economy forward. And that is why, unfortunately, Slovenia will also be more successful than Croatia because it has realized that investment in education, science, research is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60109	Thank you. Answer? No, I don't. Mr. Churay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60110	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov, you have mentioned education several times but more because of what you have said, and what has been mentioned here many times now, I would just like to make it clear. A fellow Falcon has already mentioned some of it. When we talk about 4 and a half percent there is 4 and a half percent of GDP, otherwise the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education would be over 12% of the total budget. So each 8th kuna budget goes to the Ministry of Education. Speaking of absolute amounts, it's 617 million kunas higher than the rebalancing this year, where it's already increased by 175 million kunas, so 800 million kunas just this short time has increased things. When spoken individually, of course, there is for the implementation of a curriculative reform in which the equipment for the IT classrooms is, of course, because the curriculative reform itself is not a matter of finance but of content, but of course for the resources that people will be working on. Capital investment in primary and secondary education is increasing by 15 million kuna, in higher education of capital investment by more than 20 million kuna, European and scientific projects by 8 million kuna, programme of PhDs and post-doctorates is increasing by more than 7 million kuna, contractual financing of scientific activities of 8 and a half million kuna, etc. etc. What was just before the speech when we talk about funding is secured, i.e. funding for scholarships, so I can only remind them that they are secured from... a scholarship for 7,000 new students. In fact, it has also been made, contracts for scientific centres of excellence have been signed, why are the funds being reduced? Because the source of funding is changing. For four years, the money stood, and no one did anything. So 370 million kuna for scientific centres has been withdrawn that is 85% of the European Union funds. So the thing where you reduce that because you change the source of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60111	Thank you. Mr. Peter's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60112	My friend Curai, this is how I'm gonna try to change rhetoric. I'm not going to tell you what you were supposed to do, but I'm going to ask why you didn't do it. So I just recorded the numbers, you're talking about 15 million, 20 million, 175 million. Why didn't you make the 7 billion kunas that Andrej Plenkovic promised last year? Why? Can I help you? Give me a chance to help you make it 7 billion. Or maybe I'll have to hit with a magic wand? Maybe you should hit with a magic wand, maybe it should have been done when you promised last year. But it's not a problem. Yes, yes, well you're in the coalition government, you agree with everything. Mr. Churay, in the fifth month you agreed to everything. Amen! What you're saying is no one's done anything. Compare the data, Mr. Curaj, it's hard to speak, I suppose it's hard for you to speak when you called your partners "Titanic Government" from the 10th month of last year to the 5th month of this year and called your partners "Titanic Government" to hold their ladder today. That you laughed at their 7 billion last year, and today it was 15 million kuna. ... There you go, 800. [[The Intruder doesn't understand]] Almost a billion, maybe in 20 or 50 years at your pace, it'll be that 7 billion. But Andrej Plenkovic did not promise it for 50 years, he promised it in his term as Mr. Curaj. Please be careful about what you promise today so you don't get caught next year like last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60113	Please, I can only advise future speakers, and so can you, Mr. Petrov, because you answer, only for that. If you constantly treat each other, this other will react, best answer in principle, not by provoking it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60114	I'm sorry, but I don't think it's a good answer in principle, if I can answer it specifically, why don't I answer it specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60115	But it's ugly, you shouldn't answer, he breaks the Rules of Procedure when it suits you, okay. He's breaking the Rules of Procedure, so we're all sorry to break him. Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60116	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you have made one claim or sentence, you say, what kind of message are we sending to citizens with a budget like this? Here are the questions, what kind of message did you send as the head of the Bridge remembering what we had last year at this time a little later in the 12th month we discussed the budget? You sat here as the president of the Parliament, colleagues defended it fiercely, I remember the brush with the coat of arms, etc. The budget for 2017 was strongly defended, which in absolute terms, in deficit and all of this was weaker than this budget for 2018. You've all defended it, and you've said, well, well-developed, socially, even consolidated. And today we hear of this better budget, neither is it developed, nor is it social, nor is it consolidated, etc. etc. Nothing's wrong anymore. So that's why I'm having this debate more debate about the positions of the Bridge while it's in power and while it's in opposition. It's the only one that could be estimated through your discussion of the 2018 budget. And that's not good for the Bridge. Why? Because you always introduce yourself to the representatives of the citizens. So you want citizens to see you as credible, and it's not the same, you see that it's not the same. And that's what Dalmatia says you're acting the way the wind blows. As long as I'm in power, I'm fine, and when I'm no longer in power, nothing's wrong with me anymore. And you have to admit that. And a lot of your voters ask me why Petrov agreed to be in a silent coalition with the SDP? And everything they do and support does and so does he. It is not good for the Bridge of fellow Petrov, it needs a little more construction and remember your position a year ago, and then this budget will be much better for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60117	Time's up. Mr. Petrov. Are you sure you want to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60118	My colleague, Boric, you delight me sometimes with your ingenious solutions and structures. First of all, it's so much fun to see you talking to the bridge voters, the sympathisers, say hello to them, they're probably a lot of people who want to talk to you. It's another thing. You should know that when constructing the past budget, and perhaps you didn't know that, because the adoption of tax reform at the time the Bridge was negotiating with Mr Plenkovic, Mr Marić, that the tax reform had changed in part, and that one of the agreements was going to change, they obviously forgot. But it doesn't matter. The third thing is very important, compare the budget for 2017, 2016 and 2018. You will see where you belong in 2017 like which budget. And even then and when we were making a budget that was the first problem I could think of of of the government, it was the first time that we didn't fully support you. Even one of our parliamentary deputies said it was... jumped for registration. We even said that. But it doesn't matter, you were calling us that we weren't, that we were non-legal and so on. And it's not a problem, sir. We always give a little faith hoping you can get better. That's too bad, 'cause by everything you do and how you say you don't have that capacity. You don't have that capacity and I'm really sorry. I would like, regardless of being the SDP in power, being HDZ in power, to be a living wall in power that the government works for the benefit of the citizens. We left twice, twice. We would have gone equally if we had been with the SDP on what you've done twice because you cheated on Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60119	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of the Scybol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60120	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Petrov, you were talking about reducing public debt. In this projection of the 2018 budget, we see some shifts, but these are minor shifts with some 1.2% reduction in public debt. According to the Stability and Growth Pact, public debt must be reduced to at least 60% compared to GDP. However, Croatia will not meet these criteria according to forecasts by 2022, and the same thing when we bring it into the context of the introduction of the euro we know that only to enter the UEREM two system exchange mechanism needs to meet the criteria of nominal convergence. Also, nominal convergence includes the 60 per cent fiscal criterion in terms of GDP. However, the question arises which methods will reduce the public debt in the future? As far as education is concerned, as far as research and development are concerned, I must say that Croatia is very little investing in research and development. For example. Israel invests over 4% of GDP in research and development. It is a country that invests even more than the US in terms of GDP percentages. Croatia too will find it very difficult to meet all these criteria that are required of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60121	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60122	I mean, I mean, at the moment that I put out on behalf of the Most Club about everything that is and which is not and which is supposed to be the draft budget for 2018, I just listed this information that you're talking about. What they have drawn in their prediction that in 2020 if everything is pink, if all the circumstances remain the same, if the current historical low interest remains the same, if people continue to roar during summer in Croatia because somewhere else they can't, but objectively not us, but because of the geopolitical situation and now a number of other things and that everything remains so questionable is whether 2022 they can meet the criteria, question whether everything remains the same. And that's what I was warning you about at the very beginning. And I agree, but it's not just a matter of whether they meet the financial criteria. Question, will the Croatian economy prepare for the introduction of the euro? Question, what will happen to the Croatian economy when the euro is introduced? And I just don't like the promotion and the way the government does it today. So in my opinion, public debates should be made with pro and counter arguments, allowing citizens to hear both arguments, not to root, not to make a farmer of marketing because Brussels expects us to bow down and accept something because they said so. That's what I'm up against. If someone's gonna convince me it's good, great, but someone can't make me accept it. And what's my problem is, the problem is when some other parliamentary representatives just raise their hands because they're a machine, not what they should be, and that's the voice of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60123	Thank you. The next replica of respected MPs Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60124	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Petrov, I must confess that I am extremely glad that you have actually brought about a debate about pre-election promises that are not in line with this budget. Well, one of them is so popular opening jobs, even 180 thousand jobs, not one. So let's start from the beginning. In order to hire 180 thousand people who have been promised us in pre-election time, we need to have investments. In order to have investment, we need to have climate, atmosphere, legislation that will actually attract investors to our country, unless, of course, we intend to employ 180 thousand people, or arrest them in the state administration, and I hope that we will not experience it. So as far as this attraction of investment in the economy's budget is concerned, there is one item called attracting an investment that is on a miserable 13 million kuna. Namely, this item in accordance with the Investment Encouragement Act in one hand and an indicator of realised investments in the Republic of Croatia. I think it's clear to everyone that these investments in our country are gone. Well, since we can't get out of the dead spot on investment, where Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania have already crossed us, so I'm afraid BiH could do it soon, so considering all the potential with all the resources that the Republic of Croatia has, it comes to a man wondering what the problem is. Because we actually have everything, and we have nothing. So isn't it really what we lack the courage of vision and courage of action, because it seems to me that we have neither vision nor action in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60125	The esteemed representative Petrov will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60126	I think it's absolutely clear to all of Croatia what should be done to make as many as 180 000 jobs happen, 180 000 jobs. Yeah, I think it's clear to everyone. I really hope that happens eventually. Really without cynicism, without sarcasm I'll congratulate you. But what I'm trying to say is, you're denying me from day to day. Instead of improving the judiciary, you're actually making cosmetic changes. Instead of allowing the investigative committees to make something bad never happen again you're closing it, you don't want to let it go any further. Instead of resolving the legislation, instead of deregulating it because our legislation is too far-fetched, you're making up new laws. You're just producing new laws. Please explain to me how Macedonia, because of Macedonia Investa can be the fifth in the world and we need three years to collect documentation? Explain to me how you can boast about withdrawing money from EU funds, if the current situation is such that you will be the worst government in this matter, and I will not talk about affairs. Please do better, I believe you can do better just think for yourself, not for the boss.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60127	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60128	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you said that the prime minister I greet here and the finance minister, I see that they are all present from the most important document, we see that there is not even a minister. Well, it would be my turn if the minister were present here, so he could answer our questions. However, okay. They don't care, but here. You say the prime minister said good GDP, economic growth. They say HDZ colleagues are booming, everything's going to be great. However, the fact is that when a budget is brought, this one is essentially as unsocial as you have said and undeveloped and unfair and unconsolidated and the worst unambitious. Because if it were the opposite of what our colleagues say if he were social, developmental, just, ambitious, consolidated, then there would be 180,000 employees in Croatia and not 180,000 in Ireland. Here under these lights, where good relations with European officials are praised, with good relations with world leaders, but the fact is that there is no development in this budget and no perspective and no social relations. He's not just what's most painful. It's easy to see from a case where an entrepreneur who had to consolidate one company is being guarded by the bonds, the binco debtors while the poor, the workers have no funds to pay. So those who were obliged to do something are guarded, and those who earned their wages are against them. And it is evident that we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, therefore a lot of lies and deception.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60129	Thank you. We will now move to the next club, which is the club of national minorities in the name of which time will be shared by respected representatives of Jankovics and Kajtazi. Here you go. First of all, colleague Jankovics, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60130	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Mrs. Jakir Bajo, esteemed colleagues. The National Minority Representatives' Club will support the 2018 Budget Proposal. And listening to all this debate that preceded this presentation, I can only say that there is certainly no way to divide 133 billion kuna in 151 the same way. There will always be someone who will see further, who will see better, who will evaluate in a different way. However, at the National Minority Representatives Club, we believe that objective indicators such as improving financial indicators from a decrease in public debt, whose level should reach 70% by the end of the term of office, from inflation which is up to 1 and a half percent, from growth, from an estimate of gross social product growth of 2.9% at Central Europe level, to a deficit estimated at 0.5% and 4.3 billion kuna respectively. And we have in mind that 20 billion kuna of that deficit is for pensions. So there are objective indicators that are significantly better than all the negative things that we could possibly have heard here in this House. However, this budget also contains several excellent messages, one of them is a message to local self-government units, a message that local self-government units will receive more money in the following year, which we can consider to be the initial phase of financial decentralisation. The message is also an increase in maternity and parental benefits, especially given the doubts that exist in our society on this issue. The message is also an increase in the funds associated with the introduction of IT as a mandatory teaching course in primary schools. However, what is as important to the Club of National Minorities as these general indicators are messages towards national minorities, the political message is to the Council for National Minorities to the roof body established by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, where the funds are planned to return to the 2011 level by the end of this term, which is an important political message for the Council for National Minorities as the roof body, which in perhaps the most transparent way shares funds with associations and institutions of national minorities. What we failed to resolve in the 2018 budget is both human and how infrastructure strengthening the Council for National Minorities and that is something that is a task for next year. In addition, in August, the government adopted an Operational Programme for National Minorities whose implementation we therefore, in addition to the words, turned into works, through government offices, and I expect better and perhaps even better co-operation with ministers on the implementation of this project. What I can say as a representative of the Hungarian national minority, we have succeeded in a project that 19 years no one has launched by this government, before this budget, it is the Educational Cultural Centre of Hungary in the Republic of Croatia as a roof institution of the Hungarian national minority and through the Ministry of Science, the means of building a student home are provided, it is an extremely important message for my compatriots and I can say that this is part of the overall good message of future relations and Hungary, because as the reciprocity of this to our Croatian friends in Hungary, the Croatian National Theatre is built in Pecuh, therefore, there are many good messages in this budget that are certainly much more than all of the potential negatives that we have noticed, as well as the withdrawal of funds from the European Union funds, which is certainly the problem that those in charge have to solve. As I said, the assessment is that much more good things are in the budget than the bad ones and the Club of Representatives of National Minorities will support this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60131	The honourable representative, Veljko Kajtazi, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60132	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Bajo, dear colleagues and colleagues. I agree with my colleague Jankovics, the National Minority Club will support the proposal for a national budget for 2018, and we welcome significant increases in the budget items for government institutions for national minorities financed by associations for national minorities and other programmes of national minorities. It is a step in relation to previously reduced ones that have had a negative impact on long-term projects of national minorities. The problem of the Roma national minority in relation to the funds from the state budget is specific, so I also need to point out several important facts both for you and for members of the Roma national minority. After almost two years of rest, the Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Strategy for Roma was finally formed, and its first session will be held tomorrow at the end of the year. The projected funds for the work of the Commission and the broad area of the problem it covers, as collected in two years, will not be resolved with 290 thousand and 700 kuna provided for in the current year. I remind you that in 2016 the money was intended for the work of the Commission was completely returned to the state budget because it could not be formed for political reasons. On the trail of the adopted operational programmes for national minorities, there is still a lack of momentum, and for some agreed activities we cannot find at all items that provide for the means to implement them. The action plan for the implementation of the national strategy has not been adopted, and it will take some time to bring it in line with the operational programme for the Roma national minority, which will further extend the agreed deadlines for the implementation of the activities. The agreed revision of the national Roma integration strategy also loses its meaning as the end of the implementation of the strategy is foreseen for 2020. The fact that the national strategy at European level has not yielded the desired results is not only a problem in the Republic of Croatia but also in other countries. But what we have in relation to other countries is cooperation with the Government at the level of operational programmes that are the basis of our cooperation and we expect full implementation. The current strategic documents had no impact on the situation on the ground and therefore it was necessary to adopt operational programmes which clearly define the necessary steps and deadlines to which the Government had committed at the end of August. I will return to the deadlines which again affect what can be done because of the delays so that this year we will have to act according to the parole model of the commission's work so that the money doesn't fail two years in a row. But in the upcoming period, we will have to find a better model of work in order to transparently target the resources provided for by the strategic projects referred to in the operational programmes. In addition to all the problems listed, the positive connotations that arise for members of all national minorities will not be ignored, taking into account a significant increase in the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, or the projects previously mentioned protection of the rights of national minorities, and then the increase in the Council for National Minorities as a central body from which the programmes of associations for national minorities are financed. Their problems mainly concern the already mentioned funding, then the space for action, and some minorities with a long tradition are increasingly affected by assimilation. For the overall budget, especially in relation to the projects envisaged for growth agreed increases do not constitute a significant burden but for the associations of national minorities and their interests is a major step forward for 2018 in which we expect to carry out the activities envisaged and adopted operational programmes for national minorities in a consistent manner. My wish and initiative is that the solution to Roma national minority issues is really transferred to the central state and resolution ministries, and that it should stop transferring problems to lower bodies and government offices that unfortunately do not have the capacity to implement the National Strategy, and especially operational programmes. All of 2017 we lost first on the alignment of activities and then on finding a way to implement them. And in situations where we had undeniable support from the institutions of the operator of the activity, as was the case with the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Stable Care, we have not found a legal framework for action to date. This trail also includes a proposal for a government regulation but so far we have not started to implement an agreed activity relating to further editing and urbanisation of areas inhabited by Roma. I hope that the Commission, as I said, will not significantly affect the situation on the ground, will fulfil the role of the forum and the space to discuss and plan the implementation of the activities of the holder of the authorities and the restors directly linked to the problems identified both by the national strategy and the agreed operational programme. As a member of the National Minorities Council, I will continue to be particularly committed to the interest of national minorities that I represent in order to make it easier for them to maintain events and important events that they traditionally organise and for which we have so far had to find additional resources in various ways. I remind you that our institutions co-finance national minority projects and that, in addition to the goodwill of individuals and associations, there are still many obstacles to the work of minority societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60133	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60134	Dear Mr. Jankovic, I remember when we talked about Lex Agrokor and then you said that Mr. Ramljak did well to calm down the small OPGs and entrepreneurs first. However, dear Mr. Jankovic, I don't know if you know it, but in this draft budget, it is envisaged that banks, or creditors, will have their payment or their claims at state costs. This means if there is no money, and the state often does not, and if it is chosen between whether to be a foreign bank priority or to be a national minority, it means that the state will go first to settle creditors. I have submitted an amendment to the Budgetary Act that creditors or banks do not have a priority code in order to say so in public expenditure. When the state has expenses that banks are not the first on the payroll, but that the state can do what people really need, and I believe that the needs of your national minority are above the needs of foreign creditors. So I hope you will support my amendment to the Budgetary Act, because otherwise it would be hypocritical that you praised our manager, Governor Ramljak, who let's say went beyond that provision of bankruptcy law and instead of large banks first calmed down small people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60135	The answer of the respected representative Jankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60136	Dear Mr. Pernar, that's right, everything you said I was extremely pleased that I came from a part of the country where the decision to make peace with small suppliers or facts related to the Whites is extremely important to my Baranja, to the Shore where I come from. And indeed that decision is the very fact that the Club of National Minorities and I and that we have even supported this law that we have given to Agrokor for 15 months to consolidate was one of the most difficult decisions in this term. However, the fact remains that we have taken responsibility for something, we have taken responsibility and we will take responsibility for this budget and I believe that all those who lead this country together with us who support it will find answers to these questions that you have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60137	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here are fellow representatives of national minorities I am very pleased that you are pleased with the budget and the steps of the Ministry of Science and Education, and I think it is very positive. I'd just like to explain two things where there's been some confusion. I think something was mentioned earlier about scientific recruits. So the science novelty item is shrinking because that category no longer exists. So there are no more new recruits in the budget and in the system, the newspapers are coming in, but actually they're PhDs. And that's why that number is shrinking. I think those who talk about money should know something like that, especially what they used to do as officials at the Ministry of Science and Education. The second thing I would mention is also mentioned in comparison with 2016, 2015, etc. So here I would just point out that for the contractual financing of scientific activities in 2016 it was the same budget as in 2015. 50 million kunas, with a 36 percent increase over the last two years. Which I think is important to emphasize. And thirdly, I'm glad that you also praised the EU funds issue, meaning everything that was said before for the EU funds, means a billion and a half kuna this year and at least a billion next year, key steps have been made this year. In the preparation of the projects, in solving some legal concerns, which existed, because so far there have been no such applications in the Regional Development Fund, so some child diseases should have been resolved, let's say. So I think just for public information, these things should be listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60139	The answer of the respected representative Jankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60140	I did really talk about the Ministry of Science of Education and Sports. The Ministry of Science and Education is only affirmative of a general project. I, as an expert, can commend the fact that insurance is a significant means to improve this class in primary school. And the other thing that I referred to and I can repeat for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports was one of the needs of the Hungarian community regarding the student home in the Educational Cultural Centre of Hungary in the Republic of Croatia and I can only say that this budget is also proof that this government is serious and that everything we have agreed and that we understand is important for one community and I think that one small share in the whole, I hope that a better product called the better relationship between Hungary and Croatia will contribute and, therefore, that part related to the Ministry of Education and Sports, i.e. the Ministry of Science and Education. And as for the EU projects, indeed, everyone who reads the budget saw that in the rebalancing process, therefore, we took less money than we thought, than we needed. And I believe that all of what you said, i.e. the fact that in this year or that we have managed to prepare all of those mechanisms that we need for the faster withdrawal of funds from EU funds, that they will bear fruit in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60141	Thank you very much. The respected representative Jankovic has a replica and vice president of this house, Honored Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60142	Thank you very much. Yes, the replica is the same as Mr. Jankovic and Mr. Keatazi. Because both of them mentioned actually that we should commend the budget. But I'd like to add, of course I agree, I'm talking about this section of national minorities. But I'd like to underline one thing. And this is that the larger items concerning members of national minorities, i.e. their associations, refer to infrastructure, refer to public works, refer to electricity, refer not to Roma, not Serbs, but to Croatian citizens who should otherwise have this because electrification, certain public works that need to be in certain areas, are the necessity of our country. And what they're sitting on these items is actually... Let me put it this way, because we asked for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's something that's supposed to be put on its own, by the difolt. And it all went into operation. For example. This part of the work is to be started in the fourth quarter of 2017. This cannot happen by chance. In the second quarter of the 18th year, electrification concerns the most Serbian and Roma national minorities. And it's going to be a little harder. So I'd just ask Mr. Keatazi in this case what he thinks about that dynamic that's notorally slow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60143	Okay. To the answer of the esteemed representative of Keatazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60144	Thank you. Dear colleague, you just touched what I was saying in the debate, i.e. Here in the operational programme, for national minorities, among other things, I listed unlike several strategic documents, which Roma community members have, I think in the operational programme, which was done about a year on it, we will have carriers. And they are the first ministries and I personally expect that much will be done on this issue, unlike these other strategic documents. That's why I said that the personally Roma community and I expect a lot of these operational programmes. I'm very sorry exactly because they're operational programs and they're in eight months. This year. And the deadlines have already passed, and I expect, personally, that in the coming year, right at the very beginning, we will go into realisation itself. You mentioned in the budget the allocation of certain funds through public works, I must stress here that the members of the Roma community are certainly not happy about it because it is about seasonal employment of members of the Roma national minority. So, out of healthy Roma, we create disabled people, because they receive social assistance, which is about 2800-3000 kuna, and over certain of these public works, it's the same amount somewhere between 2800 and so on. And then we wonder why the Roma community won't work. But then another major problem arises, and that's the problem, that when they do seasonal employment that lasts for three or six months then the funds are recovered through the welfare center, then it gets harder and harder and harder, and then they wait very long. Personally, as far as electrification is concerned, I expect that much will be done independently of whether it is a single building or a Roma settlement with 1500 to 2,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60145	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Kajtazik, was also appointed by the esteemed representative Stjepan Kovač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60146	I thank the respected pursuits of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Kajtazi, since you said you would support this budget, I would ask you and agree fully with you that there are too few of those projects that the government has not singled out enough for projects, first of all, to integrate Roma into society. You also know that there are problems legalising Roma settlements being solved, and there are also the problems of stray dogs that local communities now have to sterilize, wheeze because the ministry has not yet approved any funds even though there have been promises. I don't know if there'll be any of those funds next year. I also agree with the social assistance that Roma like you said create working people with disabilities because practically of these aids have made business of saying so because they get more help than our fellow citizens get paid and I think that this system needs to be changed completely because if we do not now start with such changes and things, in a few years it will be especially in Međimurje a big problem. There is also a Hall of Kursancu which I have put in the amendment since the Government did not predict in the amendment where 60% of the children of Roma nationality so I ask you to support this amendment of mine because it is the only school in the area of the city that does not have a school hall. We brought everything to the building permit, the government didn't put it this time when it puts it in some other areas. And I agree definitely as I have said that these programmes should be implemented by the Government and the Ministry, as many such items put in and do as much work with the Roma as possible because in some areas such as Međimurje it will be if there will be nothing or if it will work at a level as it has done so far it will create great problems in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60147	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Keatazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60148	Thank you. Dear colleague, you may remember in the 7th session our fellow academic Rainer had when it came to education 73 amendments. I was in the coalition and all those 73 were about education I supported them because I realized they were very positive for improving the Roma community. And any amendment when it comes to the Roma community will surely support it independently from which option it comes. Right, you mentioned the continuation of legalization, remember also that in your settlement close to 200 objects we managed to legalise and I believe and I will bear in mind that I recently spoke to the Minister of Construction, Mr. Štromar and we have already foreseen in the budget certain funds and that we will continue legalisation especially when it comes to Croatian waters, penalties and municipal waste. But we also need to make sure that local self-government in some way gives its own contribution. I also want to thank Minister Tolusic, who recently received us along with your co-workers from the city, and we have just agreed that we will do both dog-ticking and sterilization. Exactly that we have about 400 dogs in your village, and we have a lot in all of us in every Roma settlement. So we'll believe it. I think I've answered all of your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60149	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60150	Dear Vice President, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, respected colleagues and colleagues. The most important document, therefore, is the budget of the Republic of Croatia with financial plans for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. Previously, colleagues spoke so depressingly about the budget itself, and they forgot to say that in those governments, he was the same minister who was doing the same good work and continued to do it now. So what we're saying is that it was conservatively planned, and here it was planned and then it was projected to grow by 2.9%, and it was 3.2%. Therefore, there is still hope since this budget is also conservative in the same principle, but with much better effects it will achieve also a much better result. So three are the main functions of the budget. First of all, it shows the most important goals in the fiscal year. What we see for ourselves in this year, so with certain tax measures, we have been trying to reduce the press on the economy by reducing the profit tax, some parafiscal burdens have been lifted, local self-government continues to strengthen this in all parts of Croatia by means of measures offered by the Government or by amending the Income Tax Act. Then one of the goals is to strengthen family and children’s families. Pensions are increasing, wages are increasing, actually all those who have been reduced as a result of the recession are returning, so here is one of the objectives of return and defence fees and rights. Secondly, the main function also serves as an instrument that affects the country's economic situation. How do you do that? Well, that's how it actually applies and changes laws that can, in a tax sense, and contribute to everyone else's contribution to make this economic situation any better and better. It is also more intensive and aims to speed up the use of EU funds. Both the third objective and the function is to serve as a system for the control of the collection and spending of budgetary resources. Therefore, the total revenues in 2018 are planned to amount to €129 billion while in 2019 133.3 billion is planned and further growth in economic activity towards the end of the period is planned to mean 2020 to €137.3 billion. When they said it was unambitious, then we could say that here is actually a cautious budget itself because you can't expect a more drastic increase in income itself unless you're increasing taxes. If the intensity of reducing the tax press is the expansion of the base, then it is normal that income is also at a certain lower rate of growth than if it were predicted through an increase in tax. The macroeconomic policy framework of the Republic of Croatia was determined by leaving the six-year recession, and was achieved by the growth of goods and services exports, personal consumption, and investment in a stronger absorption of European funds. These assumptions about macroeconomic developments overlap as we see them with the projections made by the International Monetary Fund and that is when we compare our projections and calculations from home actually methodology and with the ESA methodology then we see that we are actually real in forecasts and growth. As the world economy is accelerated and trade exchange growth is more stable, but it is slightly weaker and lower in rates than in 2017, stable inflation and prices of raw materials on the world market are maintained, as well as better conditions for more favourable financing conditions. All this is reflected in Croatian foreign and trade partners and Croatia as part of a large family. Thus, in 2018, real GDP growth is expected from 2.9% with a downward trend by 2020 to 2 and a half percent, which of course I say what I mentioned earlier does not mean that something different is not going to happen, or that it will not work to increase and accelerate the growth of the gross domestic product. The fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia is determined by efforts to further strengthen fiscal sustainability and foster economic growth, while ensuring adequate care for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. From 1 January 2018, the threshold for entering the VAT system is increased to 300,000 kuna and the possibility of deducting a pre-tax from 50% for entrepreneurs is introduced, as well as for the cost of obtaining personal cars and other means of transport. In addition, certain changes are also foreseen in the procedure in relation to excise duties and the acquisition of used vehicles. In 2018, income tax is fully left behind and is subject to amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government in fact to units of local and regional (regional) self-government which will encourage more units to take care of the acceleration and economic growth and the achievement of more favourable conditions. This will provide units with the potential to provide a comparable level of public services, and the European funds will also help to strengthen the development capacity of all parts of the Republic of Croatia through various mechanisms already under way. What needs to be taken further into account is certain that tax revenues, here when we look at them in the structure, make up 75.3 billion in 2018 and they themselves are 58.36% of the total budget of which the most significant tax revenues actually come from the highest, which is the added value tax itself, which is more than 49 billion kuna. The excise duties are 15.4 billion kuna, and when we add that to the contributions of 24 billion kuna, we see that only those 3 values are actually 87.84% of the total revenue of the budget. It is also important to mention and help, and with the note that aid is actually conditioned by withdrawing funds from the EU primarily. Special attention should also be paid to expenditures, they are 130 planned EUR 133.3 billion, 2019. 135, and 2020. 135.6 billion kuna. What is evident is that in the budget itself with an increase in expenditure actually increases that part of the expenditure relating to expenditure that does not affect the level of deficit and they dominate. So, about 1:4 and so we enable us to develop from those available European funds. When you look at the dissipating side, what is particularly important is strengthening demographic sustainability. And when we only mention that there is an increase of over 156 million kuna to support during the use of parental leave, maternity benefits, subsidisation of housing loans. Then, what is also important in the divisive side, the rights and care of Croatian defenders and members of their family amounting to over 180 million kuna. In fact, that pensions that were over 5000 kuna have returned, so they were reduced by 10%, that the amendments and additions of collective agreements for civil servants and tenants from December 2016 were also taken into account, so this is actually 1.2 billion kuna compared to rebalancing. And what we keep mentioning is that the Ministry of Science and Education or Health didn't get enough. So comparing, and you can see it very easily in 2016 compared to 2018 then the Ministry of Science and Education from 13.89 billion, has now come to 16.12 billion kuna. The Department of Health at 9.6 per 11.5 billion. Therefore, it is not true that items are not increased and investments are not increased, e.g. Only those two ministries, and when you look at everyone else, they also have increases, except for the Ministry of Finance, which has a reduction for other reasons. What needs to be said is that it is important that, after leaving the Republic of Croatia, one wise and responsible fiscal policy is actually to be led out of the excessive budget deficit procedure. Thus, as provided for in the ESA methodology, the deficit of the general budget should be 0.5% in 2018 and 2019. It should be 0.8%, i.e. even an surplus of GDP should occur in 2020. Thus, the deficit, i.e. the public debt is also reduced to 76.6%, i.e. at the end of 2020 to 69.5%. What needs to be further highlighted, the law on the implementation of the state budget. So it shows everything that happens within the budget itself and determines how certain items are executed, how the assets are available, how the supplies are available. Likewise, procedures to redistribute funds from European funds can be redistributed. So, the whole methodology, and also in the law itself, what is already mentioned, defines how much, i.e. no more grants, or aid for local self-government units, and also determines the frameworks in which units of local and regional self-government are allowed, so that they can no longer be in debt from a total of 3% of total operating income of local self-government units. Thank you very much. Therefore, the HDZ Club fully supports it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60151	Thank you. And your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas. So we'll start from the beginning. The first one is the respected representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next is the distinguished representative of Stjepan Kovač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60152	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I'm just reading Evening, they're arresting, I haven't reached the end, but, here's 1,2,3,4,5, 6:3 is 6 HDZ, 3 HNS, I haven't been able to figure out how many of those top 10 arrests in Croatia. You see in the budget you saw 1.4 billion increase in staff expenditures. When you read these arguments that you have now listed in percentages more or less, all relate to new employment in ministries, in various agencies. So, thank God, the ear's gonna be more but let's do it now, I'd look back at what you said was a development budget, you were talking about strengthening the family, so I'm wondering, let's say the town of Chakovec who doesn't have any projects inside, I've looked at all those 1400 pages of explanations. We need to upgrade two kindergartens, so our birth rate is growing. We don't have the means to build kindergartens that's about six million kunas, we're talking about the birth rate policy, and there's not one competition where they could call where they could attract funds. Next time we talk, you said development budget. Development for who? Again for some parts of Croatia. In the last budget when HNS was in the coalition with us when he was giving amendments to that public-private partnership for schools in Varazdin County, you rejected it. Now those same schools that were then in the amendment, you've now put them into the budget. Now I ask you, the town of Čakovec has built the Ivanovec Elementary School Hall with credit, I have given the amendment just to take it out of this item, not for the entire amount of 12 million kuna, just for the annual amount of the loan war is a million hundred. I wonder if you'll accept that 400 million in this huge budget, or if you're just going to be in Varazdin County because it requires you to support their obligations to the CNS and to reject ours again? Is it not the same thing as the children of Varazdin and Međimur (Međimur)?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60153	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Grodana Peric. I'm asking my colleagues to stick to time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60154	Dear colleague Kovac. 1.4 billion to increase, but these aren't arrests but it's the return of two plus two, plus two percent of what was taken away in the previous period. There are parts and increases in employees, but when you read, if you read well and carefully then you could see that from the European funds you will now be able to finance a part of the employees who will work rapidly on these jobs relating to EU funds, which so far has not been. What's important, and what I haven't been able to mention is that a lot of time has been lost to repair the legal regulations that were missing, and that's what you say you can't achieve kindergarten exactly. And from my county 11 kindergartens have been applied none of them have happened or will happen since the regulation that has been in force so far has not allowed such funds or regulations to allow these rights and the possibility of building kindergartens to which my mayors and mayors are also very angry. And that's why a lot of time was lost in the previous period, and there was no work to be done. Same thing when you say building a hall. So here I come from the city that I also built a hall with more resources than the state budget. It is therefore necessary to assist and see how there is a possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60155	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Peric, you mentioned in your presentation some of the fees to our most vulnerable citizens who were reduced during the recession. I think it is necessary to mention here, and all in the sense that this budget is still social, that many of the fees to our most vulnerable citizens are increasing. I'll just mention some. There is an increase in funds for the expansion of children's extras. Furthermore, funds in positions and personal disability and compensation for assistance and care are increasing, thus extending the parent status of carers to the status of carers. It was necessary to secure the funds, and this government did. And what seems extremely important to me is that 19 million kunas are increasing funds at the position of the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, in order to implement professional rehabilitation and in the position of incentives for employment of persons with disabilities. So we see this is one large amount that is being secured by new different positions for those of our most vulnerable citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60157	Thank you. Reply by Honored Representative Grosdana Peric
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60158	It is true that this government has special sensitivity to those who have special attention and needs are truly remarkable in this group and I think that every shift and the individual measures that have been taken see and care for man and care for anyone who needs help. Therefore, we can say that it is extremely sensitive to just such groups which should be particularly highlighted with those opportunities and the desire to keep within the limits of really possible costs and expenditure, given that it aims to achieve the greatest balance of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60159	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60160	Dear colleagues. In one part of your address, you said that the total revenues of the state budget cannot be increased unless taxes are increased. I absolutely disagree with that finding, so I'd like to comment on certain situations through a few examples. So, so far, practice has shown if you want revenue, then you raise taxes. I think we are, so I'm going to let myself tell myself and paint the blind because we have a number of untapped potentials standing in front of us that aren't put into function. The contributions from the total state assets are excessively too small. What about the new law and that would be one that would have a significant sense in the overall state budget. Furthermore, we have large areas of unused state agricultural land, so we are talking both at the first point and at this second and about new jobs and new revenues and about multiplier effects. Thirdly, I'm not going to enter the personnel policy at all because I think it's politics, but I'm going to mention, I don't know if the correct name is an office that solves the appeal procedures of public procurement. So, people get jobs everywhere and everywhere, there's too few people there, instead of hiring 50 people who are going to get rid of these procedures faster, and that translates into investment going faster and the revenues are going to be bigger. And the fourth point is to give ourselves a concrete answer. Do we, like Croatia, have sufficiently prepared the EU's number of projects where we can be competitive for the Eu Funds? I'll give you the answer right now and I think we'll agree absolutely... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60161	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60162	You mentioned, that I said in these relationships that nothing else changes, that then incomes should actually be raised up, or with an increase in taxes. It's true, and it's unfortunate, in fact, that we've lost so long in taking care of property and not only at the state level, but also local self-government units. To be clear, none of us are exactly saints. So we didn't all get enough together to sort out databases that could better manage their assets that could then do what you said, produce really better effects where certain projects could be provided at the end of the investment, and certainly that's the potential we have to raise our own revenues either locally, whether the state budget. I couldn't agree more, but it should be kept in mind that the system of investment in information, in programs and everything else and in people among other things is very little, so I absolutely agree. Public procurement is also certain that it should be speeded up, that it should not wait for individual cases to be resolved for a very long time and that there should also be a model for perhaps European funds to increase these capacities. And as for EU projects, I think there are, I don't have the data as many as there are, but some areas have, however, need to lower actually levels in a way that needs come from local self-government units and that they actually have ideas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60163	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60164	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Peric, you said in your statement that the budget must take care of the development of all units of local self-government and that it does so. Here, on one example, I'm going to ask you if it really is. In the 2017 budget, 20 million kuna was planned for the elemental disaster position, and due to the huge damage this year, close to 3 billion total in Croatia has increased this position to 100 million kuna, although we from HSS have asked for it to be 200 million kuna. Your Zadar County has also suffered huge damage from both the fires and storm storms and, fortunately, your county and city leadership, the prime minister and ministers have received them, promised to resuscitate the damage. We see that these 100 million kunas will not be enough only for Zadar County and let alone where other areas are, where Slavonian counties, where the drought has taken more than 500 million kunas of OPG revenue. She has done great damage to the municipal infrastructure and the town of Slavonski Brod has requested reception from prime ministers and resolution ministers who have said there is no funds for it, so I ask you how this budget has been considered in such a way that we can plan again in 2018. 20 million kunas and in the coming years which we know will certainly be small, so it is my question whether you know when damage will be compensated as much as and whether there may be other models if you will not already pass through these 20 million or 100 million kunas which will certainly be too little to really compensate for. Because right now it's time to tell our leaders the units of local and regional self-government will be compensated in that way and that way, so much and so much because they're preparing the budgets, you know that. If it will not be directly compensated for the damaged then it can be compensated in other ways through the investments of Croatian roads, Croatian waters. We don't have that information and that's why we can't support this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60165	The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60166	Yes, it is true, colleague Vlaovic, that the elemental disasters especially in this past year were truly terrible starting with agricultural and then drought, not to say all these other fires and rains. So it certainly was too little money but it can't be planned every year because it really doesn't know what's going to happen. 100 million kunas will not be enough, however, as far as I know budget funds will be used and the part will also be installed through the programmes of individual ministries that will then be able and have already begun in the work of the projects to repair the infrastructure. It may be a little harder to make up for farmers precisely because the concept of recognising these damages is significantly different than other public needs. But I'm sure we'll probably find a way to amortize it too, and I'm sure we'll find the strength to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60167	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60168	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Peric, I will remind you that I do not know if you followed Mr Günther Oettinger, Commissioner of the European Commission for Finance, said that the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU will cost European taxpayers £13 billion, and that out of that, 6 and a half billion pounds will be imposed directly on Member States, or half of that amount. If we take into account what he said was about 15 pounds per capita per year, and I checked the account when you split it. So now there are about 500 million less, 60 as many as the United Kingdom has come to 440 million inhabitants and some new Europe. So when you divide that 6 and a half billion from that 440 you get somewhere at 14.77. And when you multiply it by a pound rate of 8 and a half and you multiply it by 4 and a half million people, it turns out that Croatia will have to give some 510 million kunas on an annual basis in this European budget to feed you all there bureaucrats instead of the United Kingdom coming out of that whole unfortunate story. Here I was in Brussels and they say that one half-day meeting should be translated into 24 official EU languages. It costs 50,000 euros, i.e. one half-day meeting to be translated into 24 official EU languages. It costs 50,000 euros, or about 2,000 euros per translation. Huge money, I ask you a question since we have no such projections here, will you investigate as the United Kingdom has many times asked to exempt from some general costs, if you will ask Croatia to exempt itself from these 510 million because it is a million and a half almost a day. Every day we leave here, it's going to be a million and a half for European bureaucrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60169	The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60170	Dear counterpart Sincic, we are EU members, therefore we must participate in the benefits and also in the risks. What has now proved to be something that all the other members will be participating more is the agreement and the negotiations that will take place during this period. Therefore, I think we as a state must take responsibility. Is it going to be as much as you've calculated that I don't know, and I'm sure we'll try to keep that order as small as possible, but in any case we should respect the laws and legality of those we've taken over as a member? So I'm saying if we know how to use the benefits, then we have to answer for certain costs that have arisen or will arise.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60171	Next replica, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60172	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Peric. You spoke about the state budget in a 15-minute statement, which may be too little time for such an important act to talk about all segments. You heard earlier on on this right-hand side of us that some are talking about the increased costs for employees, the truth is. And that it happened because of certain HDZ and HNS arrests for 1.4 billion kuna. It's not very logical, but it's true that the increased expenditures are 1.4 billion kuna for employees, but that's because of the basic collective contract for civil servants and tenants, but also because of the increase of the base in public services. What should also be said in the pensions you have touched, in fact, compared to 2017 have increased by 1.4 billion kuna. So this year, it's going to be about 38.8 billion, but it's going to have to say on what grounds. These are transferred cumulative effects related to the structure of the user pensions. That's about 400 million kuna, for self-coordination of pensions what you were talking about is about 540 million kuna. That's the 2.1%. The change in the number and structure of the beneficiaries of pensions of about 40 million kuna, then the suspension of pension cuts made according to these special regulations of these 10% you have said is the amount of 260 million kuna and for the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which is about 64 million kuna for the sake of the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60173	There's a need for an answer. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60174	Well, these are the facts that are there, so that actually explained all of this, which denied that it was 1.4 billion kuna for the arrests. It's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60175	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60176	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague Peric. It is clear to me that you must vote for this budget because, like us in the EU, you also use certain HDZ benefits, and then you must also do what the party says and does. But here you mentioned a lot in income money from European funds. We discussed recently here that Croatia is making more payments than it has drawn from the funds in recent years, so I don't see that positive balance that we are in negatives. And I don't think Europe can possibly help us out this way. This budget is more convenient, it's made by HDZ to make voters like it. I agree that there is also a need to help vulnerable groups and pensioners who live poorly and wartime military people. However, we do not help those who fill the budget. They're businessmen. On them, tax repression is growing and higher. They're getting harder and harder to get to the workforce. Less and less will be able to do the jobs they have and fill the budget. We think that the economy is what should be in first place and create conditions with reduced tax repression that can be developed, that you can pay more, not that our best in the strongest working conditions leave Croatia outside. There's no legal certainty in this country. Today I spoke to a journalist who said his friend was messing with his wife to go out or not to go, but then after the verdict Horvatincic told him so this is no longer a state for me, there's no security for me and it's time for me to get out of here. Unfortunately, that's how our people think, and you don't see it. Because here we sitting in these benches don't feel how hard it is to live, but out there it's too hard to live, too hard. There is no job, only if you have someone to push you somewhere, which means you probably need to be in HDZ so you can put someone in. Decentralization, no, local self-government units are failing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60177	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60178	Dear colleague. You say I have to You said I have to be for this budget because I use the benefits, so you use the benefits of this budget just as much as I do of you, therefore I do not defend this budget because I have to, but because I am convinced that it will be fulfilled as I have been convinced so far. [[Intruder Reiner: Can't be thrown out of the bench, no one on either side, please.]] You say for EU funds, yes, it is now over 13 billion and surely we have to strive and that in previous times we have been very late in preparation to make the most of and make better use of these very funds and we have not prepared ourselves here, as the colleague mentioned, not the local self-government units have prepared enough projects of quality to be able to withdraw these funds that are available to us. As for the economy, well, some parafiscal impositions have been lifted, the profit tax rate has been reduced from 20 to 18 and 12%, and it is also evident that it is also trying to create this positive atmosphere that someone will trust us with, and the way we behave in the Assembly is not an honor and certainly this investor who is watching us do what we do this morning won't exactly believe that we are serious enough about bringing anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60179	Thank you. The next one is the respected representative Branimir Bunjac. He's not here. He's losing his right. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60180	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to ask MP Perić one question that Bozena Kelekovic has asked me. He says, "Ivane, I'm looking at this House and I'm very poor, and I can't ask the question myself, I hear who's going to get everything in the budget, and by now they've been getting pay increases and pay cuts, etc. I get paid that we poor people still have garbage cans because nobody even mentions us, let alone let us live. And out of 2,000 kuna, you can't pay everything and survive. Don't these people have parents? Did they provide them with good security so that they were not as loud as we are at least 30% of the population? When will justice be shared? Who has the least of them to give more to get rid of those garbage cans, and who already has enough to give it less. That's why I ask you, Ivan, that's the only thing I could ask you, when the poor girl will turn up." And that's my question for you, when the pensioners, 100,000 pensioners who live with 500 kuna or less, and the lady says you can't even survive out of 2,000 kuna, when they come on the agenda, that's what I'm interested in, dear lady. You're talking about billions of things that hurt your head, but we see that reality is digging through garbage, that people live in poverty. Thank you. When do you plan to correct that injustice you're doing systematically?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60181	Reply by Honored Representative Grosdana Peric
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60182	The injustice is corrected by laws, we're here to pass quality laws. Therefore, if in this budget we were able to provide assistance to unemployed births, an increase of 665 kuna, if we increase parents over the other six months by 1,300 kuna, so almost 4,000, these are measures that help each individual person on different grounds. Those who have small pensions are usually in a group of farmers or those who have been a specific group that has not been paid into the budget, so they are laws that regulate which model and which measure can be applied to increase pensions. But before that, it is necessary to create preconditions to increase employment, to increase revenues, and to also serve these social groups that may need more than others.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60183	Thank you. Here's before I give the next club representative maybe we should make a little inventory. So we've now passed three club representatives of 11 clubs and we have 22 individual discussions reported, now it's seven o'clock. Here's what I needed to say. And now, on behalf of the SDSS Club, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60184	Dear Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Once upon a time in this House, there was no more important topic than the debate on the budget and on the government. Today, it's a secondary topic. We have spent our day on something beyond this Parliament, and to a large extent beyond the power of this Parliament. This is not beyond the power of this Parliament. Nor is it beyond the power of this government's politics. And if we can split up into some kind of fish, the catfish, the pike, I don't know... As far as I know, and I don't know much about freshwater fishing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the sums that go the easiest on any jezek to throw at them. And that's what it looked like this morning. And a good part of the day. She's thrown a jezek that we don't master. And some of us, like catfish, rushed to that dam. Of course, there's been a budget debate, and there's no interest in that debate except for a few people here. So it's the state of our political life in the Parliament. But someone will say national minorities' representatives in this kind of debate may not have to precede. Since I've been in this House for a long time, then I give myself the right to begin this debate in that way. It's a shame. As regards the very draft budget for 2018, the Internet as we have spoken, an opportunity for the implementation of the budget or a plan for the implementation of the 2018 budget of the two factors. Economic recovery in the euro zone and economic recovery on the one hand and on the other hand, measures taken by the government in the field of fiscal policy. They led to the fact that a series of indicators allowed the budget to be as optimistic as it is. And regardless of what someone will say, that the thing would be more convincing and more sustainable in the long term, that growth in productivity and productivity of work is better than it is. But the indicators we have are certainly indicators that need not be underestimated. Neither GDP growth nor deficit cuts, nor revenue increases in general. For this reason, the increase for most ministries, for most, may have been possible with a smaller increase. But it's not my place to talk about it now. I certainly wish the Ministry of Education and Science had gotten more from the Ministry of Culture than have been given by other ministries. And as far as I'm concerned, I think we should make sure those ministries get more. Because it's of paramount importance to our country. To raise the level of those who are educated in our country, because that level is decreasing. The percentage of highly educated or high-quality middle-school students is becoming less and less educated in our country and should be changed. And it can only be changed if we have bigger separations. As regards the topics which I as a representative of the SDSS and as one of the eight representatives of national minorities, I have an obligation to expire today in particular, is the issue of the country's even development. One of the things why people leave this country, one of the things that represents a balance in the economic growth of this country, is actually a huge imbalance in development. Baranja, Srijem, Slavonia, Western Slavonia, Bani, Kordum, Lika, Central Dalmatia, as if they were punished. They may be punished for some reason, but it has to change. And in that sense, I would like to say that the measures the government has taken, with fiscal balancing and with the change in the way of funding units of local self-government, with a law that we will adopt by the end of this year, according to everything we can see and now, is a significant contribution. Local self-government units that have the lowest development index can count on getting more from the state than they have received over the past years. Because a more just mechanism has been found than it has ever been before, more rational and more justified. I won't mention any of the municipalities. Neither the municipalities where both my party is in power, nor where there is another party in power, HDZ, HSS, SDP or any 4 parties, but it is a very significant indicator, important for the good part of our parties... and especially to our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another thing I want to say for us is that it is an integral part of this government's programme, which has been agreed between 8 representatives of national minorities including representatives of the SDSS, that special mechanisms should be created to compensate for a huge delay in development or in the underdevelopment of the area from Baranja to the hinterlands of Zadar. From the White Manastir to the Zadar hinterland. Practically to Relja for those who know the sites in Zadar. How? The adoption of legislation that will regulate that there are areas that need additional and specific development measures and that there is a fund. As of next year, there will be an initial means that will enable it. I say initial funds for all units of local self-government that will be trained and then we hope that the government will prepare for next year all necessary funds to create a fund that will allow citizens in the area of these local self-government units to have the necessary resources at their disposal. Some of our areas have every potential to be like Istria. Or at least close to Istria. Some areas have assumptions of being like Međimurje. What we are missing is the policies of non-conflict and development policy. We representatives of the SDSS and other representatives of national minorities and Hungarians and Roma and Italians and Albanians and Bosniaks, we are all ready to focus on that. Because we consider it one of the most important things we need to do for the environment and for the citizens we represent. And this budget and the solutions we found with the government are going that way. And when we say we're going to support this budget, don't let anyone mind that. Are we satisfied with what we've accomplished? We're with some things, we're not with someone. We're not with someone. Will that reduce the poverty that is so dear and at the heart of some of my colleagues as it is for me, will it. Because poverty in some of these environments is Scripturally regrettable. The efforts of the Ministry of Demography can make it right. I can fix it. The efforts of some other ministries too. I will say two more things that no longer have anything to do with the issue of even development or the question of the position of minorities affected by the unbalanced development of the Republic of Croatia. About 6.6 billion subsidies are planned next year, of which 2.9 billion in agriculture. It's a lot of money. I was talking about it this morning. I haven't been able to look at how much money we spent from 2003 until 2011 for a subsidy in agriculture, but I remember my late colleague, Jože Fristic, when he asked for subsidies to be 6 billion kuna in the time of one government. He didn't win, but he certainly got four for agriculture. If we now look at what these funds are spent on and what is the benefit, which is the return on these funds, as well as the ones we're going to invest now, we're going to have to be self-critical of ourselves. This morning I said that the only increase in pastures and meadows is 233%. And I understand that as an emergency and necessary measure for the use of the resources at our disposal. But in the long run, colleagues and colleagues, if our cattle stock is dropping and the number of pastures and meadows is increasing, that's not the solution. We know what's going on. That won't strengthen our agriculture in the long run, maybe just make individuals rich. And that's why I'd like to say to my colleagues from HSS and my colleagues from HDZ that we need to change that and the Minister of Natural Knowledge. Although it is not his, it is his to take care of the overall fiscal stability, but when the result is a way and the overall benefit, it is a common obligation. And the last thing I want to say. It is good to inform the ministries and agencies, i.e. to restore their IT component, information technology. That's quite good. This year, when it is looked at and collected, how much will be spent on informing the state administration, i.e. the government, ministries and agencies, totals 393,871,000 in 3 years, that is a billion. I'm sure it's necessary, but I'm also fully aware that it's a quarter of the budget of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia in one year. The Ministry of Culture has a billion and a few million kunas. We will spend a quarter in this and every year next year to restore or renovate information technology by ministries and agencies. Is it necessary? I don't know. I think it's necessary to have better information systems, I think it's better to have better software. Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, I'm interrupting, and thank you for putting me through these ten minutes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60185	Please, thank you very much. You'll have a lot of work to do after that because we have 11 replicas. Let's start in a row, so I'm afraid without the replicas we'd be left with one to one, and with the replicas we'd be a lot longer. But we're going in lines. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pupovac, you've detected a lot of problems in this budget, and my question to you is what are you going to do? So this government is on 78 MPs, the budget is on 78 MPs, no non-majority, now we're not talking about minorities, without only SDSS representatives there's no budget and there's no budget, there's no projects like this, without HDZ there's nothing obvious. It's the logic of a colleague in HDZ, so if HDZ is in power, there's nothing there. But I'm telling you, you've justifiably said that you're not investing in neighborhoods that move out enough, to invest in some projects that are the question of how it's been discovered this year by some people from that sector to the government by a great deal of need and information and new software. It's very interesting to notice and you noticed it. And we notice that, and we'll talk about it. But what are you going to do? You can only change some items in the budget by texting this speaker once, if you say you are not sure that you will support this budget. That's enough. And to do a little thing for your ends you've already done a lot and to do a little thing for the culture of the Republic of Croatia you've already done a lot, but people listen and share concerns with certain things you've said, but they're waiting to see what you're going to do. Or you'll be satisfied, you mentioned freshwater fish in the ponds The carps settle for a little bit of cooze, and that's enough for them. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Don't agree to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60187	Thank you. The esteemed Pupovac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I didn't think of the carp but I remembered the catfish, but not to go into that kind of comparison now and into that kind of metaphor and stay within the boundaries of a language similar to this Parliament. The SDSS advocates' club as well as other representatives of national minorities will support this draft budget. It will be supported by the fact that in a series of items in a series of segments, including an increase in pensions, including an increase in isolation for people on the edge of poverty, including an increase for people and for people whose family status is unfortunately such that they need state aid. And as for one move that we can change our hands, radically change that the funds provided for restoring information technology are rerouting to the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Education, then we would be sure that these funds are not needed there, believe me, we would do it as much as we do today, but we are asking the question to those who are planning it. Therefore, we remain at our stand. I'm sorry that this morning's debate in this House went to the wind, instead of focusing on a better budget reading than we've been able to read this afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60189	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60190	My dear colleague, you had a vividly picturesque expression at the beginning of your address, and yet I broke in myself, and I believe that it will make it easier for me to sleep, to say what is present to me all along, and the cramp is in my stomach. We also have young people today, but we had it even younger when we had the manifesto of banging continuously during and on the subject of the state budget. I asked myself a question, which I didn't bang, asking those who were banging whether it was the right way to manifest and achieve the goal they wanted to achieve. And why am I saying that? If tomorrow the kids at the gallery in the classroom, for some reason, start banging on the benches, what are we going to answer? Do we feel responsible or do we not feel responsible in this context? I believe that everyone would have to think about their actions, but also about the consequences they would cause. A new one is being repeated on the subject of poverty. I'll say that the only real socialist on planet Earth is Pope Francis, that we're like a country away from the social state. But I want to agree with you that we all have to invest energy, I repeat it countless times in the points that bring us together. Therefore, if we want to be less poor then we must first create conditions for people to work and I will repeat for countless times in this Croatia we must finally all start working, not representing the thesis not paying, not paying, all free, all free, all free of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60191	Thank you. Dear Representative Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. An honorary colleague, if banging someone helped to express himself, I don't mind. But I would really like this House to be a place where examples of how and how matters of national interest are discussed or of some particular interest. So those who visit us as young now and those who watch us on television can, for example, see how it can be better than it is in our public, than it does in our Parliament, and that's where I'd stop. Everyone chooses for themselves. Everyone wants their five minutes of glory. So I'd just like to say maybe a good part of us can get five minutes of glory, but with five minutes of fame there's nothing we can do in political life, nothing in our own community, nothing to do in our own county, so nothing can be done in this country either. There were a lot of them, but they left and they didn't seem to be there. Just persistent and patient work and listening to each other. And for that reason, it seems to me that we need to watch who did what. And when I look at the young captains who took over the municipalities whose interest I was talking about and when I see them asking around their neighboring municipalities when they go to other places to gather knowledge, to get support, I find it a way to do it. And how we know how to do it here, unfortunately, is not a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60193	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60194	Dear colleague Pupovac, as you said, I will not mention any of the municipalities or any of the cities. On the contrary, we should mention every municipality, every city not by name. Because this is a basic document, a document showing the life of our pensioner alive, the life of our student, the life of these students. The projects to be built, the economy is all in this document. How did you say what we were experiencing today? I couldn't believe I was looking at it here, listening to it here. Because my entire working life and the opposition when I was in my city was unthinkable for me not to support the budget. Don't give him the amendment, don't discuss it. And here we are experiencing something that has nothing to do with the budget, which has nothing to do with the lives of our citizens. In this budget there is no Todorovic, there is no Agrokor, there is no crime or punishment, there are numbers here, the figures that life means and in this way my previous colleague is also the mayor. Me as mayor, him as mayor, people who operate in the field are interested in how we're going to get the funds to realize the projects we've drawn up. How we're going to build sewers, plumbing, how we're going to help the welfare, how we're going to build kindergartens, how we're going to organize life in our area. And then I come here to this honorable home and I listen to three hours of someone banging on the benches, calling and insulting. And finally more should be put to rest and send a message to our citizens to hear this other side, the other side that talks about development, which is about projects, which is about taking care of their fellow citizen. But not based on floscules, not based on any lies, not based on anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60195	The esteemed Pupovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague would indeed have shown up here a number of colleagues who were increasing on the spending side and the income side to argue with good arguments during today would have listened to them more than themselves. And I'd think more about what they're saying than about what I'm about to say. But that wasn't either so rare or there might be someone else this evening, but we missed that opportunity to the most, and that's too bad. The point of this parliamentaryism is that as a minister, he thinks that the planned expenditure side of the 133 billion kuna will be able to maintain. Then let's get those arguments that someone has against hearing what those arguments are. But unfortunately it didn't happen and that's what I wanted to say at the beginning and what I said at the beginning, which is that it's actually a unique situation in the Parliament as far as I remember in my six terms. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60197	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Mark Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60198	Dear fellow Pupovac, first of all what I agree with you, which is that you should invest in education, in knowledge and culture because when a man has an educational, cultural and scientific basis, then we will also find scenes that are more understandable and more rare. At the same time, however, we should keep in mind, as one writer said, that man is responsible for the era in which he is located because that era allows him to realize his freedom. This budget is a document that allows a great deal of freedom to be realised and since you come from the system of science and higher education, we still need to give one criticism to this budget, which is that this budget is not the one that promotes so much knowledge and science is still preserved by that progress mechanism in the system of science and higher education that is related to coefficients. At the Assembly Committee on Science and Education, I supported the draft budget because the assistant minister told me that she had given up this model of social Darwinism where progress in science is related to people's retirement or biological death. But afterwards, I learned that the assistant minister had deceived me and that progress was still taking place exactly in accordance with this non-science mechanism. And because of that when we talk about dinisian ecstasy, we need to make sure that deception is also one of the divisive ecstasys, and that you shouldn't rule in the ministry, and that's why I'm going to be against this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60199	Thank you. All about the dinisian ecstasy will be answered by the esteemed Pupovac representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. So I will agree with you that we must have a special sensitivity between us from the academic community to what budget items for science, education, higher education look like. But I'd like to say one more thing quickly, wisdom would impose as some people who belong to certain regions, regardless of their party colors, sit down and find themselves outside the assembly and consider things and watch what they can do for their region. Yes, and we who are in the academic community sit down from time to time and see what we can do to make funds for science, higher education and education and research and what you say, to limit the human development potentials of science research, higher education must be changed. But I suggest we meet and talk about it so we can welcome the next budget rebalance or the next budget more ready and directional. I listened carefully, and if I could listen more carefully to others during the day today, I would surely have gone richer for an experience of parliamentary debate than I had gone away. But thank you for what you've done with your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60201	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60202	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you said that the budget and it is indeed the most important document that defines the development and policies that should define the development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, especially those less developed, which you and I advocate to be more significant in the state budget and that someone has clouded the water there. Usually in cloudy water a large fish eats a small fish and then a small fish has no way out but either to run away from a big fish or to organize and to stand up. At this point, that water needs to be cleared. Here's an example that the water is cloudy just when you mention carps I'm afraid we won't have the production of carps in Slavonia and Baranja because the incentive for the produced kilo of carp and that eco rent for the damage done to them by fish-eating birds wasn't paid in 2015 or 2016, and this year it was planned 8 million kuna in that position. And you know why it hasn't been paid, she told me on the Committee on Agriculture State Secretary, because of the administrative obstacles because... notification of the documentation that should be prepared to pay off, that it's the producers' fault that they can plan their production. And the answer is, yes, we'll sort it out, and we'll pay them more next year. The fish I have to eat today, the workers have to get paid, and here's an example that it wasn't taken care to help develop exactly these undeveloped areas because you know who works on the ponds that these are mostly low wages and that if those small wages don't get that they're still moving out of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And especially when we know that certain municipalities had income per capita of 600 to 800 kuna in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem, and in the vicinity of Dubrovnik 14,000 not to say now which unit and that it was kept silent for years. When it will make up for that difference, when the Municipality of Brodi Stupnik will arrive in that municipality around Dubrovnik, answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60203	Thank you. The esteemed Pupovac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. We're going to have to introduce system mechanisms to do this. One way is the Law on Supported Areas because so far we've had about so much that we've had indexation but then through the induction into a group with those with index 1 we've been through and those with index 3 is now going to have to find mechanisms that will make it impossible and that is to create additional instruments like the Law on Supported Areas and like the Supported Areas Fund. That's one thing. And secondly, that subsidies and aid but especially subsidies we don't spend on the "hore", I'm not going to say now which but to control them and design them in the long term, then the issue of carp, then the question of sheep, the question of cattle and the question of any form of agricultural production will look different. This morning I was saying, from 2011 to 2017 a total of 19 billion kunas, 1/3 of which I dare say went in a direction that I'm not sure has any serious connection to the improvement of agricultural production, either of the OPGs, whether cooperatives or more serious producers. But that's the thing that we have to commit to, first of all, us who make the ruling coalition but also other colleagues, which is why I appreciate your call.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60205	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60206	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Pernar warned that people are digging through garbage, truth, it is unfortunately the reality of life in Croatia, unfortunately, but this government also allows someone to pay millions of bonuses on the basis of the garbage business, so I ask my colleague Popovec what he thinks about such a way that someone can get rich as much as this government cares about... Social situation, how much did she invest in this budget that I don't think is enough? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also ask you what you think about the presentation of colleagues Peric said that not enough projects were delivered by mayors, mayors and mayors. Do you think that's true because we know that the 72-year measure today stands at the Agriculture Payment Agency and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done nothing? What do you think of that since you're in this government? And I'm also asking you to finance units of local self-government, come on, it's well planned, that the full budgets of the local self-government units will be filled, but will you at the same time, we've experienced multiple times that the government has deceived us. If this rate is not going to be the budget of local self-government units, will you continue to support this government?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60207	The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. 3 questions for a little while, but I will try to answer all 3 first I was talking about differences in territorial development or underdevelopment. When it comes to social differences that exist, they are as close to me as I said in the exhibition and perhaps even closer because they are an even greater burden for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and not only for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but for today's world in general. I don't know if you were here in Parliament when I opened the question of taxing bank interest. I don't know if you were here when I asked the question of the 200 billion kuna that stands at the expense of citizens who simply stand as a rent and a completely non-productive moment in our financial system that the banks benefit from and benefit from the state, the benefits of which are citizens, and when you look at what the structure of that is, 70 percent of which owns maybe only 10% of the savings. Some say it's a one-digit number. So it is absolutely necessary for this galloping increase in social inequality in Croatia to say a lot. But it's a structural thing and it's not since yesterday. And he's not going to get rid of the debates about Agrokor in the way it's started, but seriously facing the negatives of capitalism the way we've been forced here. And as for whether or not we will support if the government fails, we will not fail this one or any other.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60209	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60210	Dear Mr. Pupovac, you represent Serbs and you say you are fighting for them, but I want Serbs to represent even better than you, and for this reason we will give an amendment that your minority will get 20 million kuna more and the funds for this will be raised from the funds intended to buy fighter planes. I believe that for Croatia the survival of Serbs is more important than the purchase of fighter planes and I hope that you will support our amendment. I hope you will recognize the priorities and by my court and court of many citizens of our country, and especially your voters, the purchase of fighter planes, the sending of soldiers to NATO military missions to Hindus, etc., I don't think such things are a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60211	The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, as I said in at least two ministries, is an increased amount of funds that I wish I hadn't increased as much as it has increased. And those who need to increase are more than what you think should be directed towards the Serb community and it is about all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, you, with your amendment, try, but with your policy we will try to make some form of side-by-side budget that does not produce productivity, which does not even bring justice, which does not even bring a better perception of individual groups, that this does not happen. But it can't be done overnight, at least not in our shoes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60213	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60214	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Pupovac, here you are, 4 at the beginning of your debate said there is no interest in the discussion of the budget. So when we look and analyze, of course there's no interest, because we realize that the majority population in this House means members of the HDZ or their government will normally vote for their budget, I can't back down. There are those who support that majority, which are corners. This support has been torn apart, in a way that in the RS Corps supporting them, they are kind of raising the items in the budget to get votes in the next elections and to be better positioned. You said here, that budget allowed the pensioners to get bigger pensions. Here, my 82-year-old mother is grateful to you for a 20-dollar pension increase. It's not even for new reduction pills, when she gets that pension, when she sees under 2,000 kn how much she is, that she invests it and calms down a little after that. He's lucky to live with me, so he can live with it, but there are pensioners whose pension doesn't extend so much that they can welcome old age from one of their homes, and they don't have anyone to help them, and then they live and dig in garbage cans and get along, maybe they're starving. There's more and more people on the road who stop and say, "Please give me, I'm hungry, I'm thirsty." I meet them all over Zagreb, and I believe that you and that on the way to the Parliament, you would need 100 kn of change as well. It's not in this budget. The local self-government unit will get crumbs. In the meantime, they have also received many obligations that they must fulfil, when they overlap, they will have nothing again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60215	The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I mentioned the late HSS President Josip Frisic and his efforts to budget for 2007, or in 2008, I don't remember the best way to secure 6 billion kunas for incentives in agriculture. Was he raising peasants, a colleague when he provided or fought for what was best for them. He was coming up. Okay. I thought he was fighting for their interests. If we're fighting for people to have electricity, then we're not raising their interests. We're fighting for their elemental right. If we're fighting to have a paved road, then we're not raising them, we're fighting for basic civilization law. If we're fighting to have a social home that doesn't have 20 years, then we're not rising, we're fighting for their fundamental right and I'm not counting any further. And as for retirement, therefore, we are also aware that about 90,000 people in this country have a pension of 500 kn. You want to settle this with this budget? The measures of demographic policy or social policy measures? He won't. This has never been solved in any country. What we have to do, and you're certainly aware of that, which is two things, is one thing to keep our pension system from collapsing. So when you get into your mother's situation, you can count on your pension. Because there's a great danger that it won't happen. But it's not because of this budget, not because of you or me. It's because of the political and economic system we live in, which we're not serious about, but we're wasting our energy on things that some people think makes sense, and I don't think it makes sense. We spend it the way we exhaust each other, and we don't actually contribute to opening any relevant question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60217	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Pupovac, you have brought one to me frantic and shocking information, which is that in all ministries, in fact throughout the entire budget, 381 million kn is intended to invest what is in the information equipment, which is in the information programs, and that is that you have calculated a quarter of the budget of the Ministry of Culture. I didn't really know it was such a situation, I focused only on the Ministry of Science and Education, where it's actually about 10%, let's say, almost 10% of this amount will be invested precisely for this purpose. So we're not saying, of course, that it's an investment in some information programmes of national importance, or some programmes that need to improve the health care system, because it's all very special under CARNET. Now, like you, I don't think there's anything controversial about that, but unlike you, I'm convinced that this is absolutely not a priority right now. Because in the Ministry of Science and Education, therefore, if we look at 30 million kunas on one side, we will invest in computers in different information programmes, and on the other hand we will reduce by several million kunas of resources that have been planned and implemented, for example, scholarships to students of poor social economic status, so we do not know why, for funding assistants in continuing children with development difficulties, we have not provided sufficient resources for education and professional training of teachers, teachers, professional associates in our schools. I think there's a lot of mixed priorities here, and I don't want to go so far as to say that this whole thing stinks with this information equipment and investment and all kinds of information programs, but I don't think our students, parents and pensioners look kindly at this series of priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60219	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, the capacity of my club to study the draft budget is not as great as your club's capacities. But also small capacities we've seen some things. We're not talking about some people, and we've decided to tell someone because they're interesting. It's not going to hurt the budget, but it's still going to move someone to ask themselves, and why is that? Any excuse for that? I'm glad we're discussing this right now, but you know what I'm not happy about? I'm not happy that the number of amendments that will be addressed to this budget will not be 50% of what has been referred to. Someone wanted a road, someone wanted a school, someone wanted a bridge, someone wanted to hear his community and his place, would that happen with this budget? A colleague, Kajtazi, mentioned 70 and some of the amendments that Professor Reiner's Vice President referred to in a parliamentary debate on science, education and higher education items. Will it be now? He won't. I'm afraid not. It's ideal for the ruling and for the government. But if it's good for Parliament, if it's good for the culture of debate here, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60221	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pupovac, here I am listening to you speak, I wonder, I actually find an explanation of my surprise why we are going to an economic abyss because you have expressed your opinion that this budget is not good and you said that you would still support it. In doing so, you haven't even changed the color of my face I must admit what surprises me. We're both university professors, so serious people without cheap pulsism, we're already talking about arguments. You see the next example. In next year's budget for government debt interest, around 10 billion kuna is foreseen, I have already presented a very clear thesis several times in this House that about another 4 billion can be saved, some 700 million are saved, another 4 billion kuna. Well, you see, my question, if we know the model, you see, I know how to solve it, and there's four billion kuna left, then it's going to be for both the Croats and the Albanians, the Bosniaks. If you want to support such a budget, therefore, or the one that is this and we all know that we are losing and we all know that if you support this budget, that there will continue to be lines on bus stations for abroad where there will be members of all peoples, then they will be smaller or larger in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60223	The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague... Any chance in the previous days, weeks, preparatory and previous discussions on the budget and in today's debate on the explanations and arguments of what you're saying about how it is possible to cut those 10 billion by 4 billion, I would be the first to make an effort to help you pass your proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we didn't get that chance. In one replica that you now used, you couldn't make any arguments, you could only present it as your vision. And why didn't we bring it up? Well, because we haven't had such a discussion. And why don't we see such an argument? Well, because we're grand. The catfish that goes to the first threw echo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60225	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to the next Club of Representatives and that's the HSS in the ine that will be spoken by the respected representative Ana-Marie Petin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60226	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, here today if not all day but then half a day we are already discussing the most important document of a country, the state budget, the basic document showing which direction a country is going or planning to go, and that document must be developed, it must be social. But what exactly is the state budget? This is nothing but a cash register filled by all our citizens and all our businesses and whose money is collected in that register must be used for the economic and social well-being of all our citizens. Since this budget proposed for next year shows that the main generator of Croatian economy growth will be personal consumption, one of the key factors of development and income tax that remains for local self-government units is expected. I wonder what will be the growth of the Croatian economy based on the personal consumption of citizens when almost a third of the population of the Republic of Croatia and according to EUROSTAT, lives at risk of poverty and social exclusion? And that includes those who are poor and those who are in serious material poverty. We're talking about people who barely make ends meet, who don't have the basic needs of life, who don't have to feed their family, who don't have to pay for the directorier than they have to dig through the buckets, they have to do it in all kinds of ways and those who end up lucky and leave this country because they've found a job in another country. We say that the personal consumption of these citizens will be the driver or generator of the Croatian economy. So 250 000 workers in Croatia receive a net salary of less than 3,500 kuna. And nearly 100,000 workers receive minimum wage. When we talk about industries where the lowest wages are, we're talking about the textiles, the wood-processing industry, and exactly the state budget needs to be based on the personal consumption of these workers. And in parallel, we do not see any measures in the state budget for the economy and for the development of these industries, so the state budget, reducing tax burdens on entrepreneurs so that at least they can go to an increase in this minimum wage. On the increase in minimum wage, we also warned from the HSS, asking that the minimum wage be much higher than €2620 as voted at the beginning of the year, precisely because we know that with such small incomes you cannot survive and let alone stimulate the growth of the Croatian economy. When we talk about a second important link in this budget, it is an increase in funding through EU funds and there is also a losing figure because of the 10 billion euros that Croatia has available from the Structural Funds, during the first few months and 8 months of 2017, the government only agreed on 1.4 billion euros and 370 million euros were paid. Overall, only 714m euros and on the official European Commission portal, which is currently reporting on the use of European structural investment funds, Croatia is at the very bottom as an EU member. When we talk about a third important link, it is a income tax where the units of local self-government are completely left to the units that we from the HSS Club welcome, but what it says is that this income tax that is left to local self-government is the potential to raise the level of public services that is equal to the tax or tax burden level. This only tells us that less developed areas and less developed units of local self-government will also have a lower level of these public services and should be exactly the opposite. Therefore, units of local self-government with these means should ensure that the level of public services is raised, that the quality of life is raised, but since they are already burdened with a number of commitments imposed by the state and co-financing or financing of a number of services to raise the standard of their inhabitants, I am afraid that these funds available from the amendment of the Law on the financing of local self-government will not remain sufficient resources for some major and important development of projects in their areas and without the help of the state will not be able to move to the real economic development of their own regions. Here is just a reminder that already a large number of local self-government units, those who have certain resources, co-finance education by buying free textbooks for their schoolboys, co-finance the transportation of students, co-finance health care, and primarily, that basic health care through co-financing of the work of the Emergency Service, through the financing of the arrival of specialist doctors in less developed areas. We finance fire, civil protection, even recently inter-urban transport and what is most important is that units of local self-government have even begun to co-finance salaries for new employees in companies. So more and more local self-governments are taking over the role and job of the state, probably because they themselves realize that there will be no big help. Investments in less developed areas, I must point out that not all these resources available to us through rural development measures, that I must point out that not the municipalities and cities that have not prepared the projects are those who are waiting for their projects or for them to get an answer for their projects, even a year at a time. In this way, we cannot count on these funds to raise the level or affect the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. And for the end when we talk about agriculture itself, of course we welcome the increase in funding for agriculture, but what we are concerned about is the reduction of the funds for inspection control of goods entering Croatia and located on the shelves of the trade chains because that is exactly what we have repeatedly pointed out that the goods of Croatian goods must be protected from imported goods that are mostly of lower quality but are priced in terms of the standard in which Croatian citizens are located. The funds for the Agricultural Chamber are also being reduced and the question is whether or not the Agricultural Chamber needs to be in the future. And when we talk about agricultural land itself, here we are looking for the quick adoption of laws so that our farmers get the opportunity to use agricultural land as soon as possible because there is no food production without agricultural land, and thus no future survival in rural areas. What I would also point out is that I hope that this increased funding in the Ministry of Agriculture will go towards survival and the rest of the CAP in rural areas because we know that without a strong village there is neither strong work nor strong state. And another one of my questions for the end, and that's what's going to happen to the agricultural land that Agrokor's companies have? Will the state be left without these funds, who will work in the country at the end, and whose budget will the funds be poured into? For all of these reasons, the HSS club will not support the adoption of a state budget, and we only hope that our suggestions and our comments will affect that at least in the future we care about all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60227	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused a large number of replicas. He is the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Petin. I'd like to comment on a few of the things that you mentioned in your presentation, but which I think is extremely important when we talk about public finances and the state budget. In fact, we talk a lot about rural space as it is abandoned, as people from the rural area leave, our villages become empty while at the same time 90% of the EU funds available for rural development are untapped and this is the European Court of Auditors' data. Only 3% of the total funds we have at our disposal have succeeded in withdrawing from the EU while 13% has been agreed, so the question is that we will implement them, the question is whether and how much will be the decommitment since with these funds, especially when I talk about rural development, what we have withdrawn, the master in a very, very irresponsible way. The Prime Minister himself announced the establishment of an agrarian bank, of which there is no A in this budget, I do not see it at all, and that was one of the pillars of what HDZ proposed in its economic programme. So we know in what state our rural space is, we know what state our agriculture is in, and on the other hand, you see how we treat it, 90% of the funds are untapped.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60229	The answer of the esteemed MP, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60230	So I fully agree with you, dear MP, and that's exactly what I was talking about at the pay phone because simply when we warn and when we talk about these things, things need to happen much faster, that they need much simpler criteria, a simpler procedure to be, it goes in the direction of positive criticism, and nobody should be angry about it, but they should listen to us and go in this direction because to all of us, as well as you and us and the ruling foreigners, it is certainly in order to withdraw as much funding from European funds as possible. These funds are available to us and they should be an injection into the development of rural areas. And it's a shame that projects running through rural development measures are expected to be responded for a year and a half. I just hope that this procedure will be much faster so that a lot more projects can be reported and that this use of funds is much, much bigger than it is now that we are really at the very bottom of the EU membership table after withdrawing funds from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60231	The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60232	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Petin, I'd like to say the same thing about European funds. You have expressed your dissatisfaction and surely we can all agree that we would be much more satisfied to withdraw more funds from European funds. However, it should also be said that all of us who have had experience working on European projects know how complex the procedure is, from tendering, to contracting to carrying out the work, not to say the problems in public procurement, complaints and the like. Only by carrying out the work or putting out the situation can the European money arrive at our country and our account be it temporary or final. I would therefore like to remind you that we cannot address all criticisms to this government because this government and the Ministry of Regional Development and all those other resolute ministries are working very hard. So here are the figures that say that this year's tender is worth 2.2 billion euros and now totals 5 billion euros in total announced tenders, which is 47%. If we compare this to 2015 and 2016 then a total of 2.8 billion euros were all announced. And when it comes to the agreed funds, then in the first nine months, we have 1.6 billion euros, which is 2.2 times more than the previous two years. But here I would like to appeal to all the ministries, because our eyes are open to all of us when it comes to European funds, and I think that at least we have the same interest in them as much as possible in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60233	The answer of the esteemed MP, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60234	I thank the honourable MPs and for your comments. If certain ministries don't have enough people, enough capacity to process all these demands, I think we'd all agree to increase that number of employees, give them adequate salaries to do their job. Thus, the state budget has increased pay allocations, where some ministries have increased the number of employees. I think we should go that way. We all have positive criticism about this, and I think we'd all agree to increase our capacity at that time and that these requirements are much faster processed. Because it's a great shame to call a competition like here about a month and a half ago, that is, in the 9th month. is finished, a tender for infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones, and we won't even know the first step if we've passed, only in the spring. So here, again, we appeal to everyone together, let people's capacities increase, let all the jobs they need be done, just so that those funds come much, much faster into the hands of those where they need to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60235	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60236	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Petin, you mentioned a lot in your presentation of the local self-government unit and how they take over according to yours, the greater the role in the affairs of the state. So this budget, as you can see, is that I think it's one of the better things for local self-government units to decide for themselves about their own money. People who work, pay, absolutely all income from income tax, their city, their municipality, their county, and so many of those 2 billion have been transferred to units or just over 2 billion at least this year, in rebalancing will be 2 billion and 26 million kuna, transferred just to units. Of course some cities and municipalities will be net on winning. Let's say the city of Osijek will have 5 million more, right what you were saying, kindergarten, sports, culture, municipal activities, whatever might increase. You mentioned interurban transportation for secondary schools, otherwise this budget provides 5 million kuna more in that item. But some municipalities will be, it was mine here and the question, exactly, some municipalities will be, those, especially those who have low income per capital, will be reduced there and if they are supported, they will get less. Because they were getting more out of help than they'd actually get from this tax change. But that's why we've just been here this year, something that we've been proposing in HNS over the past few years, we've introduced a balancing fund, just so these municipalities can be given the possibility of no one remaining damaged. And that's what I mean is one even and normal concern about development. What I've always suggested, let's take a step further now, because it's now 100% income from the local self-government unit, something like a cut. So let's make sure that the units themselves can create within the maximum amount, that the tax is even smaller, because it will bring growth in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60237	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed MP, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60238	Dear Representative Curaj, here is the city of Osijek to receive 5 million kuna more. I'm happy about that. Here, my city, the city of Orahovica will get about 4 million kunas more, but that 4 million kuna, it's not enough for big investment projects, that's what I was talking about. 4 million kuna, while building infrastructure only in part of the corporate zone in the city of Orahovici costs 10.5 million kuna. So for major investment projects, we have to run for EU funds, which we do, and then we wait, as you've heard for more than a year, to get an answer or we need state help. And when we talk about a series of funding, what units of local self-government are now funding, they schedule their budget, in a way that means they also have to meet all their needs for their citizens. But there are also things that cannot be financed by a large number of local self-government. They don't pay all the municipalities and cities, they don't buy textbooks for their children, because they don't have anywhere to go. That'll do it now. So not all doctors, specialists, you don't have to do that in big cities. You don't have to co-finance emergency medicine. We have to. You don't have to pay for the specialty, Doctor. We have to go to Orahovica. And we're taking it all out of the city budget. That's what this is about. So it is necessary to talk about the even development of the Republic of Croatia, then it is necessary to take care of these very things. We, in our county, have been cut off by transport, i.e. they have been lifted from place to place. In order for older people, because the old population is in rural areas, you know, so they can come to a town where they gravitate to doctors, towns or municipalities have to co-finance transportation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60239	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60240	Dear colleagues. Your skepticism about it, about the share of income tax, I don't think it's justified and would disagree with you that it won't help you solve some problems, and you're wrong if you think big cities don't co-finance what you just said, so both medical teams and specialists etc. We've done it a long time ago, so we can have the standard we have. And we've introduced a cut, so that we can withstand that standard and that we can withstand the burden of the economic crisis. Therefore, I believe that this, that your skepticism towards the share of income tax is unwarranted and that this will very much help you create a further budget, and as far as EU projects are concerned, the fact is that some cities were more active, so the preparations were done long before and some were very slow. The fact that we've lost time changing the regulations and looking at the problems of 2 of this government, that's something that's actually a problem, because it's been lost for at least 6 months without doing anything. Well, here, in that sense, I think it's justified, to say it openly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60241	Thank you. The next line is, and I'm sorry, the answer. The answer of the esteemed MP, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60242	I thank the respected MPs, but perhaps you didn't listen to me very carefully when I was exhibiting, at first, when I mentioned income tax and amending the Law on the financing of local self-government units, I said that we at the HSS Club support that amendment of the law. And that these money certainly is welcome in local self-government units. But you come from Zadar, if I'm not mistaken, you have a hospital there. We don't have one in Orahovica, you have specialists in hospitals, we don't have one in Orahovica. In the municipality of Crnac which is about 20 km away from Orahovica or any other municipality that gravitates the town of Orahovici, the old population, there are no bus lines. It's a community-funded thing. And we finance specialists. And all that goes for 100,000 kunas, just to afford, at least some standard to your citizens, here's what you have in Zadar. And now all the extra funds you get from these changes, you'll have for other things, and we'll just make up for what we're funding right now, all of what you don't have to do. So there's a big difference when you're speaking from a big city, a tourist town, you've got big incomes. Or when you speak from Slavonia from small towns, small towns, where we work with small incomes, yet to meet the standard for our citizens not to leave us because people are leaving us. In the last few years, over 5,000 inhabitants have lost 1,000 nuts. And it's up to us to find a model to stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60243	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60244	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Petin. So now, responding to replicas, even though I listened to you in detail while you were discussing it, somehow in the debate, it seemed that you were actually very skeptical about these amounts of funds that would be received by municipalities and cities, now through replicas you've already corrected that attitude a little bit. So, it should be made clear that just underdeveloped municipalities and cities, which are the most in both my county and your county, such a state budget and approach, will receive significantly more resources than they had last year. I can agree with you that these are still not enough resources, because of course, that in those parts, you still need more. But, the fact is, this year, they're going to get more resources than they had last year, and that's why they can do better to have them and invest more in developing exactly these undeveloped areas. And another thing about the EU funds and the withdrawal of funds. So we have to make it clear and loud that the procedures that were too complicated, we wrote them ourselves. It's something that this government has inherited from previous governments. We have a competition under these old procedures that are still going on, and we have some competitions already under new procedures and that are being resolved much faster. So some things were simply complicated, but significantly more withdrawn funds this year than it was last year, significantly more past than it was before. And that should also be made clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60245	Thank you. The answer to the distinguished representative, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60246	Your Honor, I'm talking about development projects, projects that need to be taken care of by the state. It is precisely that units of local self-government are increasingly taking over that role to be played by the state. That's what I'm talking about. That these funds to local self-government units are welcome. But there is no aid to the state for undeveloped areas. Equal development of Croatia is needed. State development projects need guidance, for example in Slavonia, that's what I'm talking about. And then we in the units of local self-government and you'll have the resources to have other things to raise standards. But we're talking about development projects. Those local self-government units can't do it alone. That's what this is about. That's where we need help.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60247	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60248	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'd just like to look back on two things, colleague Petin, you mentioned EU funds. What is important to emphasise is that EU funds and framework programmes have their own, operational programmes, have their 7-year period. So, first it starts with programming, it means tendering, contracting, only at the end of spending. So it makes sense that the money spent will be the most in the end. We know in science that a lot of preparations were done last and early this year. And now, at the end of this and the beginning of next year, we're going to talk over a billion and a half kuna about it. So it's the same kind of natural dynamics, so it's not good, like some of our colleagues, getting things out of context, taking one moment and then saying, uh, now you just have as much, as much as you've spent, etc. A wider picture should be held at the end of the seven-year financial perspective so that courts can be brought. And another thing he would point out, regarding the protection of his own production. I mean, that's where he should be smart. We are in the EU in autumn and we have adopted European legal legislation, but unfortunately there is still a lot of misunderstanding about how it works. So you can't go directly to the foreign product in domestic legislation, so that's not how it can be done. What is needed is to find much smarter ways to protect certain quality, standards, security, etc., etc. So we all need to come up with mechanisms to move through this way, means measures that are equally applied to all quality and safety protections that will then contribute to our producers. So I think, in that sense, that we need everyone's contribution, so I urge you to make concrete proposals in which we can, through market regulation to the permitted level, protect what is quality and prevent the import of bofl from other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60249	The answer of the esteemed MP, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60250	Here's a thank you to a respected representative on the line. So far, 714m euros have been paid since 2014, and tenders have been announced for 4.68 billion. Well, that's all he's telling you is that they're not taking advantage of the funds. It's easy to call a contest, but it takes all that procedure to do it later to get those funds into the hands of those who need it as soon as possible. And that's where we talked, and we all agreed that it was just too slow. And we all agreed that more people should be hired just to make as much use of those funds as possible, so that we wouldn't be at the bottom of the scale at the cost of the funds. So here you are even, so the rebalance has reduced that position by 2.5 billion. And now we're going back to the state budget some kind of projection, I don't know 13.14 billion, so we're going to cut again at the end of the year. I was talking about that the state budget cannot be based only on these 2, 3 things as a driver of economic development, there is also a number of other measures needed, the disbursement of shareholders so that they can ultimately and raise salaries to workers and that they can reinvest and create new jobs. That's what we're talking about. And God damn it, all that's scheduled to come next year and take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60251	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said the village would be extinct. Sela, a good part of our village is extinct during wartime, extinct in the wartime and extinct now. In the morning, I mentioned a figure about the situation with the gardens in terms of arable areas, it's just an indicator, we can't say that it's complete evidence, but the indicator of the decline in vitality of our rural households. Every village household had its own garden. One or the other. That number didn't split, but it did by 1/3. And it's not just a problem for the village, it's a problem for the general population policy because the village has been a source of population vitality for centuries and centuries for most of our cities. And we have a situation where we actually run out of demographic tanks when it comes to earth. And in addition to this insufficient agricultural policy, still a depleted property, still 50% of unprocessed agricultural land, subsidies that are uncontrollable, if, by chance, I fear the latest wave of subsidies, insufficiently controlled. This only adds to the fact that we do not actually have what is structural and that is a serious agricultural policy. I'm no expert on this, but as far as I know, I have a need with you because I appreciate your discussion and your colleagues' debate and interest in this budget debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60253	The answer of the esteemed MP, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60254	I thank the honourable representative, so the truth is, not that our villages are dying, but that a very, very large number of villages have practically disappeared. And when we look back only a dozen years where villages or small towns are, places in Slavonia where they have run out of key institutions, institutions, so who will live there? Agriculture destroyed, no strategy developing agriculture. Young people don't see their future over these places anymore. Young people want much more for themselves than before, so that only tells you that today outside of Croatia is not just the head of the family as it used to be, and women with children have remained to guard the hearth. Today our young people want much more for themselves, they take the wife, the children, the whole family leave, they don't want to be separated anymore. And such families will never return to Croatia again. And especially if they look and watch their ends become extinct instead of developing. So, you need to do something crucial, you need big investment by the administration in underdeveloped areas to get our people back or at least this little that's left to go, and there I agree with you, it takes a lot of work but simply direct the interests of this Croatian government in Slavonia, into less developed areas and developmental major projects, help municipalities because despite what this law is good, but it won't be enough resources, I am again warning for major projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60255	Thank you. Last replica, the respected representative Damir Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60256	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow Members of Ana, you said what makes this the backbone of the budget and the plan for 2018 and the projections for 2019 and 2020 is one of the important features there and state property. I would remind you that in 2017, revenues from state property in the budget amounted to about 50 million kuna, and the 2018 projection is one billion. A huge jump, on the basis of which this huge jump is based. Apparently, there are a list of about a dozen companies that are planning to sell shares in them, shares and equity shares, which are companies and how these privatisations will be conducted. I think the Croatian public must know that we have not received answers so far. And what matters to you as the head of a local self-government is that there is state property that is out of service, which units of local self-government would put in a production cycle, either for some public needs for public institutions. And I don't think that this government has contributed to speeding up these processes, and we know that there's a lot of unresolved property relations, but the fact that over 6,000 apartments, a huge number of military facilities stand unused, and units of local self-government could put this into function for the development of their end or for some kind of social programs in their area. So what do you think of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60257	Thank you. Here's what he thinks about it will be answered by a respected representative named Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60258	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. So here's a colleague when we talk about state property, especially the one I'd say trapped in local self-government units sure that the main people of the municipalities and cities know and have a solution to what to do with that property. And what's even more important is that there are projects or competitions that we can run for projects and that are designed to rebuild or adapt such buildings and buildings that are owned by the state, which can certainly be used by local self-government. Here's an example, with me in the town of Orahovica, I have to boast a little bit that it's not all black, that here in a small Slavonian town last year is a pre-graduate study for physiotherapy, this year even a graduate for physiotherapy and there's a building or property owned by a state that we can rebuild through EU funds, whether in a dormitory, whether there are in a hostel, there are therefore a number of projects that we can apply and we sent a request to the Ministry of State Property Management that such facilities be handed over to us. But here's the thing, unfortunately, and it's going quite slowly, and we haven't got the answer yet. And if there is such a thing as the minister said over 60,000 if I'm not mistaken he said a request from the units of local self-government just to transfer such objects. I believe that gold is also valuable and something that the rightful head of municipalities and cities would be able to manage well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60259	Thank you. We will now move to the next club of representatives, which is he of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB in the name of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with the secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that probably, like most MPs and MPs today here in this assembly, I somehow feel a certain discomfort towards Croatian citizens in the end because of all this that is happening in this assembly when discussing a document that means at all the functioning of the state, payouts, pensions and all that functioning of the overall system. And somehow I get the impression that what happened today is just another proof of the creation of that hyperdistruction that I'm talking about all the time in my discussions here on behalf of our club because if it wasn't, then I'd say that this play in the morning could be done tomorrow when it's not on the agenda of the budget that many citizens and many institutions of the economy are all waiting to see which direction they're going to go, which is good, which is bad in it and whether it's going to be accepted as such or whether they're going to see something that's not good and what should be fixed. One of the sentences that the minister used in his explanations and by explaining this budget often used these days was that this budget was a document in which it was visible that we were not spending more than what we were earning. And that might be the most basic sentence because the items in the budget by positions other than the ones we already have, we can stretch, figure out how politics wants to do it that has a majority. In some positions it can provide more in some smaller, some programs and projects support more, some less it is a matter of policy that determines it. But in this part of the debate today, I'm afraid we're still creating a picture of the state budget that's not good at all, which is a picture of political instability. It could even be said in some way and proven false political instability because it was proven last week that no matter how anyone shows, no matter how anyone talks about the number of hands in the Croatian Parliament that the government still has its political stability and that it creates, it tries to create a more positive atmosphere for life. This is also evidence in the extreme case of this budget, because when you look at this political stability of the automatically state gets a better rating, interest cuts, you see how much we have in this budget a visible reduction in the expenditure side only because of improving credit refinancing and interest rates reduction. What I would like to highlight here on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB club which will, of course, support the adoption of this budget is something that we all have to think about, that all the budgets and this one, all the policies and these ones should start turning to the man, and not just some material programs, projects, constructions, I don't know what not. All of this needs to be done, but it seems to me that in all these years since the 1990s we've been here since the creation of the Croatian state somehow went away from man and we've been doing some other things until what's happening to us is that people are leaving us. But well, people don't just leave Croatia. Here's the other day we were able to read in the media an example of a Swiss village where it politically stimulates the arrival of young families in that village because they are leaving their village in Switzerland. So these are obviously some trends that, unfortunately, occur, with some richer countries able to solve it much simpler, they can influence it in a better way. In order to ensure this social stability and social security and to begin to happen something more positive is definitely necessary to work on increasing salaries primarily for those who have the lowest wages and I do not repeat it again as I did in the budget rebalancing for this year by about 100, 200 kuna, which is a pure demagogue story, but that these minimum salaries increase to at least 4000 nets for people, a married couple living on such salaries can at least fill that union basket that is unfortunately hard to fill in many families. I view this budget as a budget that goes in that direction, it has positive elements and I believe that the government will work on it through the year of implementation of this budget and is just heading in that direction, moving towards man. A few things about local levels. There's a lot of talk here about local levels. This year's budget rebalances the funding of the county road administrations. And now we have some shift in that part. I'll say not enough again. And if that doesn't work out in the right way, to ensure the financing of ZUCs permanently and continuously we really won't have anything to drive by, and we're all driving on unclassified roads both on the streets and on the county and on the local roads. But you've got big misunderstandings in the detachments of those roads relative to the state roads, which is kind of fine. State roads are higher-ranking roads and are more trafficked by them, but life is living where people are. And in order for them to live, we have to provide them with those things. What I am looking forward to here and what is certainly good, which our club particularly supports is the fact that it is going towards fiscal decentralisation, according to local self-government, that this will obviously be resolved this time so that the daily discharge, i.e. by filling local budgets, can plan the income of every unit of local self-government that can create better living conditions and prepare their projects for running for various competitions especially from European funds and thus withdraw additional funds and do something better for citizens living in what environment. But there was criticism here of one slow, slow dynamic use of European funds. These are criticisms that are justified, these are criticisms that stand. But they're not tied to this budget alone now. This budget provides the planned funds for this part, but it is up to us and the Government to definitely encourage all state institutions to launch this system, to amend the rules, to simply change new negotiations with the EU and to change certain things in particular in rural development programmes and thus to withdraw more funds. But in any case, I think that this way of creating a budget and that fiscal decentralisation, we have for the first time the situation that local self-government will be a little easier to run, and that money will be more even and fairer to all citizens, so to a man while on the other hand we have a situation to go to and on this malt-equire fund not the extra of 100 million kunas that would settle those who would eventually lose, and so far they have won, and under the new law that is likely to be passed with a large majority of votes here in the assembly would possibly lose something. I'll just look back at two or three little things. I mentioned when adopting budget rebalancing that we particularly welcome the provision of a small item of 5 million kuna to finance secondary education in agriculture. And I am pleased to see that in the budget for the following year, even in the projections for 2019 and 2020, we still have such resources. I wish that such similar means could be provided in future at the Ministry of Education to build sports halls because today we have real situations that we have facilities in some environments, we have sports halls, we also have schools that don't have children. And in other environments we have children thank God, and there are no sports halls, and there is no possibility that something like this will change more significantly in front of us and that there will be more to it than that. And one more thing I want to mention, I don't think I've heard him mention sports at all today. So Sports Office, fostering local sport and sports competitions 7 million and 40 thousand kuna. It's not big money, but when it's directed towards local self-government, there's a lot to be done with. If we add about 4 million kunas distributed annually for local sport, then we get an interesting item just hope that there won't be any disturbances there now so that in the HoO it doesn't turn out that the HoO is no longer funding local sport because such money is secured in the state budget in the entry of the Sport Office. That wouldn't be good. I see it should be put together both and funded with two sources. The 300 thousand kuna item for HPK funding is something that is certainly not good. I think that there is a rather undefined way of financing HPK and that we will again need that institution if we go to this OPG Act that needs to gather that OPG that we will in some way disable it in financing or in the course of these months, we will find some new model that will be financing HPK, although I personally think that this item of 2 million kuna is how much it was to continue to finance HPK and that it should continue to be financed as such. There have been talks here about kindergartens, about investments in kindergartens, at the Ministry of Demography there is one item that goes to that part of the reconstruction, construction, children's kindergartens, in rural development there is the possibility of running for new kindergartens and I believe that with several of these items that are offered to make certain shifts and that it will all run together. I'm going to finish this debate the way I sort of started it, the budget as a budget is positive. What is being offered is positive, it is a pity that because of some games of political this document which should pour little optimism and give little hope to Croatian citizens that we have put it in another way and that we have played games, we had fun in this assembly at the expense of Croatian citizens at the moment when we were to discuss items in the Croatian budget that depend on the lives of Croatian citizens in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60261	Thank you very much. It's your first word that's caused the first replica. She's the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60262	Dear counterpart Hrg, my grandfather Emil Pernar was an architect at the time of World War II in the Partisans and as he was in the Partisans he saw what a village looked like, he was in Slavonia. I remember one time he told me that in one night he crossed between Sava and Drava. You're probably wondering why I'm telling you this. Well, because he told me that at that time in 1944, 1945, the country situation was better than it is today. And he also told me another shocking thought or actually that thought he couldn't tell me because he died a few years ago, and today the situation was worse than it was when he told me. We're coming up with a mass extinction of the village, that even a lot of cities are dropping their population. I'll give you an example, I was in the Drenovs personally during the election campaign, there literally every house is empty, literally every other house is empty. And about the quality of HDZ policy, ha Goodness speaks best of agricultural production or its total breakdown. This policy that is being implemented continues to be implemented with this budget, which means that we can expect a trend in further migration, a trend in further decline in production and collapse of domestic agriculture. I've tried to come to some reasonable conclusion why you support this budget and this government, but I don't see it. Probably the only reason you're personal is because you're in a coalition with HDZ and I think it's actually the only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60263	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60264	My friend Pernar, I shouldn't have asked my grandfather. Let him go, so it doesn't matter what he leaves. I'm not interested in that at all. There's better air in the hall, better while it's gone. It's quieter. To me, I should not have asked my grandfather how it was in the Croatian village in World War II or what it was after World War II or what it was in the 1960s when I was born, or how it was in the 1980s, or how it was in the 1990s. I saw it all very well because I live so much. I remember well how my mom used to tell me that Partisans were peeling cows that picked up people in the village in my barn, that's what I remember. And that was good. I remember walking in rubber boots to school when I wanted to get to the bus, then I had to have rubber boots, shoes to wear in a bag or some bag to get clean to the city. And that was very nice. I remember a time when there were three light bulbs in the house, a radio, and only some of them had television in the village but it wasn't that long ago and it was great. I remember when it was living so that the tax collector would come to the barn every year and he knew exactly because of the spies in the village that the cow should write down, which is the best breast-feeding and which is the best. And that's what I remember. And I know what was done on the infrastructure, on the arrangement, on the improvement of life in the villages of the 1990s here when small municipalities were made. And I know it well, because that's what I've been involved in. And simple demagogy and this kind of game and story like my colleague Pernar does to me, it's ridiculous. I'm a professional teacher, by the way. This is what I used to experience when I was working at a small school, so the kids were playing sad. That's what came to the Parliament, except the children are intact, and it's not like that here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60265	Thank you. I'm afraid everything you've said is in vain anyway, because like he answered your first word like that and your first word of reply, my colleague Pernar went out, so he didn't hear it all. But the next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60266	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You've been talking about some kind of government stability, opposition politics, some kind of bright moment. However, I hope you are able to read and foreign press not only Croatian, not what MPs say in the Croatian Parliament from any party. And today, let's say, the prominent Economist magazine announced that the government is very unstable, that it is very unstable to carry out reforms and that it is very likely that new elections are expected in 2018. So that's not what I said, nor did Agent Pernar say, nor did Representative Maras, nor Bull. That's what very prominent economic analysts said because there is no reform. I don't know what, who you blame for not having reform, but the fact is that 77% of Croatian citizens don't believe in the direction the government is heading. This shows independent polls, that the prime minister has become Croatia's most hated person in 13 months, that he has even gone into conflict with the president he has appointed from his own party, that he is in conflict with all neighbouring countries, that he is behind the neck of Lex Agrokor. We see what's going on. We have seen the consequences of this here in the Parliament today of carrying out an institutional violence. I don't know, with healthy eyes, with healthy ears and all the other senses you claim to be all right. Have you today been okay with this kind of violence from the ruling majority, disallowing to conduct the ordinary Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, to shut down the commission? I don't know. I don't see that stability, and if you see it, please explain why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60267	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Hrg will respond. I'm asking you to stick to the budget anyway. This is the topic today. We spent more than half a day on something else. Let's at least stick to the budget now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60268	I initially said that political stability, for example, of this draft budget, already offers less interest and offers significant reductions in the expenditure side. I also mentioned the fact that political stability or instability with a certain number of hands is being talked about, but that the other day it was proven not to be quite so. When will there be an election? Well, we'll see. Oh, my God, who can predict when there's going to be an election? It is not known who will be sitting in the Assembly that will be decided by Croatian citizens as they have decided now. They're the ones who'll decide. I'm a realist myself. That's how I act in my life, that's how I try to behave in politics. I'm looking at things optimisticly. I always wish when it's hard to speak optimisticly. You're a different person in the diametric opposite. You're just a person who has this one gene of destruction inside of him, who just wants to show it all black. I understand that, too. You've decided on political opposition, you've decided on such a way of working, and that's your direction, your path, your way of action. I don't blame you, that's your business. Don't blame me or you don't mind my way of doing things. I'm always trying to speak as I think is good and in a positive direction, because in a negative no progress will ever be, ever. Progress can only be positive, never negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60269	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac. She's gone. She's losing her right to the replica. The next is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60270	Dear Vice President, here you have warned us to stick to the subject, but colleague Hrg was talking about destructive behavior of the opposition, which does not suit the truth. We witnessed here today disrespecting the Rules of Procedure. If it's some kind of violent and savage behavior, there's a couple of MPs banging on the benches, if it's, I don't know, savage behavior, we're then I'd say more cultural parliaments in the world at all. Because if you're investigating it, I don't know if you've been following any parliamentary debates in any of the parliaments in the world. And here we had the fact that the Rules of Procedure had been violated, that no breaks were allowed, and that this morning, violently, without any decision, the Assembly's investigation committee was extinguished. And what you're praising the budget, I'm not surprised, but people say differently, experts say differently. Croatia remains the only country, so-called a new Europe that has not yet reached GDP levels before the global crisis broke out. In the second quarter of 2017, even Slovenians did so. We are the only ones who failed, and we have the fact and during the debate he spoke of, our President Petrov, means that the deficit of a consolidated general state, during the diameter of Oreshkovic, means that he experienced a record reduction of 0.8% of GDP. We have a situation to predict this now for 0.6. So it's not true that this budget is going towards reducing the public deficit. The fact is, you needed this majority that's thin, well charged. The question is how much is paid to all those who are part of this majority and should give an answer to that. You're just saying it's all positive. Of course, it would have been positive for you if Maric had brought anything here, you would have told the same story, the same mantra would have sold us. And don't say we didn't discuss the budget, it was a budget debate, we had a quality debate and we had, I think, 20 replicas. It means the presentation of fellow Petrov. So that's not exactly what you're saying. Nor is it true that the opposition acted destructively. We had the will of President Parliament, who would finally show that it wasn't Njonja, but if he had a position here, he didn't allow a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60271	Thank you. I beg you, too, to stick to time, because it's according to the Rules of Procedure, absolutely. Here's your colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60272	Comrade Thunder, I understand. You can't regret one reckless step you've taken. And now you pour that anger on everyone at every debate here in the Croatian Parliament. You're very inclined to qualify people in a variety of ways, and even here I am surprised at the epithetists. And what do you think, if these people sitting here in the assembly wouldn't be begging you to start labeling too. But, no, we're not doing that. We're not doing that. And believe me, it's interesting even to listen to those discussions of yours and watch that dissatisfaction, that bitterness, that bile you spill, it feels now, it feels. It's good to laugh sometimes because laughter is healthy. He's much healthier than a bile spill. He's much healthier. But that's the way it is. That's my attitude, that's my opinion. Probably some other people, today, tomorrow maybe some other more other less, another story again. But the fact is, that's how it happens. And that everything that's going on, it's really not right, that six months ago it worked. Today, one of your colleagues in one replica or something or a colleague, so you were talking about the 2017 budget quite differently, I think that's what Boric was even saying, quite different. And he's where and where to say, thinner, weaker than this budget. Here, just try to get back here again, my fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60273	Comrade Thunderbolt, come in. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60274	Infringement of Article 238 So the truth is, I'm the euphemist of the budget, and I haven't even discussed the budget at all. The fact is, my colleague Bulj didn't support the budget. The fact is that one of our advocates who supported the budget said he was jumped like a golf duo before the registration, I remember that. And those stories of fellow Boric and what he's using now, his colleague Hrg, they don't stand at all. If everything had been so wonderful, it would have obviously been part of my ruling majority. And if we were as sorry as you say, our deputies would not have voted in the first government alone for the disband and our ministers would not have voted as they voted. I'm a free man, happy. You can see I'm free, that performing, that I'm happy, that I'm satisfied. I'm not part of this robbery that's happening, I have a clean conscience, I'm free to perform, I'm not afraid of anyone. I've never been a happier colleague of Hrg's. Never happier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60275	Thank you very much, of course not much. And you know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was abuse of the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I beg nicely. Lately, this has been very common, abuse of the institution's injury to the Rules of Procedure. Each of us has the possibility of replicating, reporting for discussion, etc. Let's not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. But I appeal to everyone to talk about the subject, but the subject is the budget. A very important topic, a very important topic. There he is. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60276	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to talk about these stories where you were talking about destruction. I will personally give over 10 amendments. It's my law of attorney. It doesn't mean that you, I gave the 2017 budget last year, the same 2 amendments for the budget.../The speaker doesn't understand. and I was a part of the majority, and I didn't support the budget, and maybe it's weird to you, but it's a fact that you can very easily check. When we talk about the village and the peasant, you were the president of the HSS and you were a parliamentary representative, the fact is only in the dairy production was invested 6.7 billion kuna. At this point, 64 000 before the investment of these funds, subsidies, 64,000 rural economies. Family O.P.G., people who were in the dairy business. Now it's down to 4,600. After these investments, where did the money go? The easiest thing to do is to bring the document, the budget, it's like a wish, we can now write in the budget, I don't know what, but the fact is that while you were also a parliamentary representative, that money didn't go to the peasant and the village because it's empty Slavonia. Someone mentioned the situation after World War II, and right now it is, and I come from the village and live in the country, the situation is worse than during the Turkish Empire on the cattle fund. It means bad politics. The least problem is to boast well with Juncker, I'm a good European listener, and the banks take 4 billion kunas a year on fees and our citizens out of pocket, and while the state and the finance minister think they'll forgive the debt of the Dalmatinka company that the workers didn't get paid or anyone else. Or Kamensky or Dalmatia, that's the problem, that's the problem. Where the money calls it repeating, there's justice burning, it's all corrupt... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60277	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60278	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, yes, I was a representative here in opposition at the time of the Kukuriku Government, and I must say that I have very often pointed out a very, very ugly relationship with the Croatian village of the then minister and that is one period when this very milk sector suffered extremely badly even though what you were saying, so these investments and these pumping funds and earlier in the village, they went the wrong way definitely. And there's no one here who can say that well. I know to say very clearly and loudly and publicly that I have never understood how it worked with so much money invested so quickly destroying the Croatian village, but unfortunately the problem of moving the village is not only in Croatia, we can't comment on it and we can't run away from the problem we are facing, but I repeat that what I said and in the debate, that even in Switzerland there is a move of young people from the village to the cities. It is such a trend that happens, what to do, what to do, how to stimulate people to stay alive, it is indeed one of the more difficult tasks of all governments so far and this government that is now managing the Croatian state and I hope that certain measures that are foreseen by this budget and I hope and stronger withdrawal of the funds of rural development measures, greater operationality, that this trend will begin to stop not only from the village but also from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60279	I thank Mr. Horg. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrg, I would also refer to two of your sentences that you have spoken. You gave us one criticism that we chose today to show dissatisfaction with the way we showed it and another criticism that you said that we allegedly insinuated or alluded to the instability of the government. So, as far as this first one is concerned, it was created as a result of an eyeless violation of the law and after that of the Rules of Procedure, this first of five representatives of the Agrokor Investigation Committee and the second by the President of the Parliament who firstly incorrectly and incorrectly ordered the Parliament expert service to inform witnesses in the investigation committee that they were not coming to the meeting and then did not approve a break at the request of the HSS Club and we were actually doing our duty and we prevented the anti-business work of the Croatian Parliament. So what we did today, we asked to respect the Rules of Procedure and what the President of the Parliament was doing today, he violated the Rules of Procedure. So the only destruction that was, was by the President of the Parliament. As for the so-called so-called. The sudden instability of the government, on the contrary. Today it has been proven how stable this authority is because it is ready as a politician from these places could express himself institutionally and outside institutionally, so when it suits us according to the law and the Rules of Procedure and when it does not fit the law and past the Rules of Procedure. So it's proof of stability so you don't have to worry about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60281	I thank Mr. Bauk. Mr. Hrg's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60282	I never said it was your right and that you couldn't always do it. I just expressed my view, my opinion that in some way in the day when the state budget is being debated by many, many citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and those who are taking pensions and those who are working in various systems and local self-governments and all of them, that it may not be quite appropriate that on that day, on such a day such a debate should practically be taken aside, activated by imposing some other debate and some other way, that I do not say the political struggle that happens then. I said that maybe today was a budget debate, and if tomorrow was this, it would have been perfectly normal for me and okay. And so it's okay, it's your way of working, your way of political struggle, so in the end, in various parliaments of the world there's a lot more excesses and different things, even physical accounts in the extreme case among MPs, then there's nothing controversial here. But it's my right, it was your right to do it, and it's my right to say my opinion on what I'm saying. My opinion is like this, you thought like this, and now who's right, who's wrong, it's now the thing of some others who are going to be valorized tomorrow or less valorized.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60283	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg, in your presentation, you said among other things that this was for the first time that income tax goes entirely to the units of local self-government and I respect you for this very reason because you were the head of the unit of local self-government and now a parliamentary representative and you can talk measuredly about these things. But it's amazing the fact, and you mentioned it in your presentation, you mentioned one place called Albinen Valais in the southwest part of Switzerland, which attracts people with certain benefits to come live in that place because it's not as attractive as that. Of course, the demographic you looked back at in your exposure to the pain of all of us and we talked here and I will repeat tonight with due respect and health reform and education and local administration and self-government, reform of all reforms is a demographic reform of the Republic of Croatia. But it concerns something else, which is what the leaders of certain opposition parties have been saying today, and I see from my predecessor from the Bridge telling you about some transition countries like Macedonia and Slovenia today how they came out of the crisis and how their economy is growing today. But we forget the fact of the Homeland War, the damages that occurred in the Homeland War, the restoration of houses, infrastructure, industry and that opportunity cost that occurred then in the Republic of Croatia, some say it is 30.34 billion euros which is three Croatian budgets. That's why it's unfair and unfair to compare with transition countries and not talk about this budget the way it is... 2018 as one developmental and very good budget for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60285	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60286	Unfortunately, we are a people who forget very quickly and who are very quick to throw mud upon themselves. If on national television the host says it's not Homeland but Civil War, then what are we talking about here today? So these are some things that need to be very active and aggressively spoken of, that just don't allow those who want it pushed aside and blur that what they're saying becomes true because the truth is somewhere else. And as for local self-government, absolutely if a minimum standard is provided per capita in every part of Croatia where it lives, then conditions are created that can be done and it is certain that it is not expected now that everyone will rush into the state budget and again seek all projects from the state budget to get rid of everything from the state budget without being resolved by local self-government. They will and will have to, and we will have to restructure it, reorganize it, and they will have to turn to man, they will have to provide local self-government in their part of greater social security. And all of this together then ultimately should lead to at least minimal shifts, minimal shifts in this problem of ours all the problems you said, and that's a demographic problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60287	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60288	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. What we have at this time enter into some 12 hours since the work of the Parliament began today, our topic is the budget for the following year 2018. By going through these 700-point pages where you can see exactly what the money from the budget is going to, everything in a few items stuck to my eye. And why is that? Because today's budget is not very different from last year's budget or the last few budgets. Thus, many items remain the same or similar with some slightly larger or smaller changes for which you do not even have to study, you can take the Evening List or something and see there have singled out some of the most important changes. It is known that we in the Living Wall do not like to deal with ideology, but that we prefer to talk about the needs of our citizens, what are the problems of our first hand, we read and personal messages, talk about problems that are not spoken of, and we will continue to do so. First of all, it is in our interest to talk about how better to live in Croatia. The budget is one of the fundamental acts that the government is financing its programmes, financing its policies. What kind of policy is I don't know about social care, so within social care, what kind of policy it is for certain segments, which institutions are in charge of, so I don't know policy in defence or policy in the judiciary, etc. Most of these policies don't change at all. Unfortunately, we have the continuity of these policies regardless of which parties were in power, which is why there was no real change. We are prone as a state to give money, instead of giving money and creating conditions for one who knows how to make three from one kuna to help them and to give money to them, unfortunately we often give to those who from one kuna we give them minus five kunas. And with that principle, we won't get far. We have not seen reforms of key institutions, we have not seen reforms of key segments of Croatian society and state, nor has this government done anything in this direction. The only attempt at reform is some amendments to the 16 laws last year on tax reform. The management was not touched, there were no significant shifts in the management of state assets. In the end, you see that by budget, the budget is as flat as it was in previous years. The policies of the CNB and the banks didn't touch much. There's not even the courage to overpaid, stolen interest, or the interest money returns without any argument. Why? The debates are being held in small hours. No reform of Croatian broadcasting, no reform of the State's Attorney's Office. There are numerous other reforms such as local self-government units. Collecting waste disposal, which is why we're going to have to pay for the pens now, and I could count for a very long time. So, the list is very long. All that directly affects our citizens, the household budgets there are no major changes, there are no major changes. The first item he looked at was the government budget. Here, I've set out a few amounts. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2017, 2016, had a budget of 217 million, this year 352, the next 354, 2019, is a projection of 385 and 2020. 454 million kuna. It's an increase of over 100% in four years. Why? That's what I asked in the last budget, and I warned that the budget was growing. I did not get an answer where this money is going and what would double the budget to the Croatian government in four years, as if there were no more important items in Croatia where money should go than the Croatian Government and that double, an additional 200 million. Here's Minister Maric, if you could explain after my hearing. I also mentioned the situation in the judiciary. On page 664 of the budget, we see that judicial separation, so that's almost a straight line. Here's 2,4, 2,4, 2,4, 2,4, 2.4. On the second and third decimals these millions move from year to year, so we're talking 2.4 billion. No judicial reform, no reorganisation here. So we're still going to have inefficient land books with 95 so many unlisted statuses that we're still going to have cases like this of the bankruptcy mafia, that we're going to continue to have corruption in courts, that the State's Attorney's Office will continue to work ineffectively, etc. etc. That our judiciary will still look the way Horvatinčić and Sanader would want it to look. Here's some data from those state's attorney's offices. Let's say county. I read from 2016 to 2020. 90, 90, 908, 99. I'm sure it's a straight line. Step 21, 23, 25, 26, 26. The municipal state attorney's office is item 11070 173 million, 166, 176, 179. It's all there somewhere within a few percent of the changes. No major reform can be seen here. I don't know if you've read the report from the state's attorney for 2015, 2016, which we haven't discussed yet, and it's almost 2018. Although I don't trust Mr. Cvitan and his President Bajic. However, some of the things that stand inside with them are very much in agreement because I had the chance to go to these state attorneys. That report just screams, yells at the frame. He's crying out for better space, crying out for funds so we can fight crime in this country. I have often mentioned that in the United Kingdom you have several organizations that fight only against corruption in health care and, if I recall data, one pound that they put inside five to eight defenses, protection. That's what I was talking about at the beginning. We give them one to save us three or save us five. No, we're not giving money to them. We're going to give where we're going to give one, where we're going to lose 10. We don't work at all to prevent justice. And we've become a legally unsettled country anywhere near the rule of law and there's no intensity at all. We see by 2020 that it's a little bit better, not even a little bit better. You don't have to listen to me again and trust me. Listen to your esteemed world institutions, Europe, the IMF will similarly tell you that reforms are needed, that it is necessary to reorganize this country or it will disappear. We could discuss each of these points of the institution all day long. As far as local self-government units are concerned, we're going to have to organize a country, although it sounds ugly or sad to remove some units of local self-government. If we don't stop them because they're inefficient, they don't have a future, they will self-destruct when they lose their population. My view also stemmed from the money invested in irrigation compared to the money we give for the protection of elementary disasters and the amount of damage to the elemental disasters. This year I think the last figure is about three billion damage. I don't think this year's drought prevails, but over the past few years it means that I've reported, you know, the damage to the drought. On the other hand, for watering, for the prevention of deforestation, the minimum amount. As for science, investment in science also has no significant change, no shifts, so there is no strategy at all, orients that, here we give 4% or we give 3% of the budget. And that's our priority. We're not going to stand down from that, and that's what we're going to give first. You can't see that in this budget, you can't see it in the previous budget, and you can't see it in the projections for the years to come. This budget has also not solved the problem of the Immunological Institute, the issue of innovation. Well, that's maybe one of the points where I stopped looking where I had a smile on my face, for HAMAG BICRO's instead of about 280 now almost about 600 it's commendable. I've given the amendment where it's still supposed to increase because there's a future. But it's all too little, too late, without the goal of the strategy and without one whole look at the thing. As far as the budget projections are concerned, I think they're quite missed and we haven't considered Agrokor at all how Agrokor will affect the budget. I also talked about the situation with Brexit, so not me as counterpart Peric said, but a European commissioner, he said in the east, the finance commissioner for the budget said that around 15 pounds of British per capita in the EU. And when you multiply these 15 pounds times the course, times the population of Croatia gets about 510 million kuna a year, Croatia should allow to make up for that hole in which more Britain will not pay, and that is a million and a half kuna a day. Today is Wednesday, when we leave, it will be a million and a half kuna to the European bureaucrats, tomorrow million and a half European bureaucrats, so long as we are a member forever. It's some kind of idea. Already, huge money goes to NATO and the EU, so there's an item on page 106 of the UK corrections, so the same for Britain and the things she refused to pay once, so 211 million, 247, 196, 195, 194 million for that and such items. And on all those millions of other 510 a year, God forbid it comes to that. I hope our administration will have the courage as the UK has refused to pay some of these expenses while we are a member to refuse to pay these 510 million. We can still see that Europe is centralized. Important agencies have received those older members, so I am not surprised that this whole EU story is becoming more negative. It would be important to say that the main lines of leadership of the Croatian state are returning those four horsemen of the apocalypse to reduce rights, sell property, raise taxes and increase debt, no vision of the day through this budget, no new relevant policies and changes in policies are seen here. You will see that through a series of amendments we will warn of segments that are stagnating terribly in this country, which we should have long ago solved what is preventive, which is strategic. And, of course, it is necessary to say that neither such nor any similar budget The Living Wall will support it because it is contrary to our policies and ultimately is contrary to the vast majority of Croatian citizens who simply do not see hope in such a document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60289	I thank Mr. Sincic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60290	My colleague Sincic, you said that this budget is not development and that it is the continuation of that policy that we have been looking at all these years. Everyone is aware of that. I believe it's self-aware. What's the key question is whether our citizens want to go on with this grumbling and whether they want to continue the transfer of responsibility from one side of the assembly or whether I would call it some kind of endless ping ping-pong. You said that we have submitted some amendments to the budget, we have indeed submitted the amendments, they are essentially going to the poor. We asked for funds, for example. for fighter aircraft rerouting for higher salaries to professors. I personally suggested that NATO military radar funds be rerouted to increase social benefits, that social assistance users do not have to dig through garbage. You suggested that 1% of the funds that go to the government are directed for hungry children. However, it is clear that the HDZ gentlemen will not support it. But we do not do this for them, but for the people who see all this and in the hope that one day the people will reject this policy. But the most important thing you mentioned, this issue of distribution is the issue of consequences, and the main question is the monetary policy of the CNB, which, unfortunately, is not changed by this budget or by general government policy, and until that changes unfortunately, everything will be reduced to being translated from hollow to blank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60291	I thank my colleague Peranar. My colleague Sincic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60292	Thank you, Comrade Pernar. You've mentioned more topics, I'm going to lean on some things. Yes, here's a policy for people with disabilities, when there was a debate about when Mrs Anka Slonjšak was here giving her report and mentioned herself in the debate, and it says in her report how many centres for social care or HZZO are accessible to people with disabilities. That's about 10%, so that's where politics needs to be changed. do we see changes in this policy in this budget, do we have to finance these policies? We don't see them. You have a series, a series of examples like that. As far as science is concerned, yes, I remember when the previous budget was being passed in this assembly there were talks about how attractive Croatia is to scientists innovators from the world, at the very bottom. If we remember 120, 117 was something like that, mostly you realize what the point is. Instead of putting science and research first, we do not continue to implement a policy of continuity. Once upon a time agriculture was a major activity and almost 100% of the people worked there, but today it is not. Today it works so 5 to 10% that in which the developed country, today it is the territorial sector of education, science, research that generates new values, that is where three, five or ten or ten are made from, and not on fighter planes. That's where we're going to get minus 2, because we're going to have to maintain them and everything else. So we're doing almost everything wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60293	I thank Mr. Sincic for his reply, the next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60294	Thank you very much, Mr. Sincic, in your discussion you mentioned, and I hear that you gave the amendment, which says that you need to increase the incomes, i.e., pay the employees and the people in the education system and that you should do so before our government decides to go into me to say one expense that is not primary. It may come much after spending such as investment in education, investment in health care in medicines, we see that our government and Minister Kujundzic's problem is to find a few million kunas for medicines that our citizens' lives mean both quality and longer life and quality life, related to their diseases. And that he says that no country in the world is rich enough to heal its own, all its people. Be careful what message Minister Kujunzic sends and then the dead cold no one reacts by either the diameter nor the other people in the government of the Republic of Croatia, continue to do the job further. But it's no problem for the government at the same time to get expensive military equipment, meaning 350 million kuna, but next year to set aside for the planes, but the problem is to raise money for teachers, professors in the education system. The problem is to raise money for people who need a cure of several million kunas. Here, we watched the other day of that media contribution. Children, 30 children are waiting for the money, and Minister Kujundzic unwittingly reports that Croatia has no money. It's for planes, and it's not for citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60295	I thank my colleague Maras. My colleague Sincic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60296	Thank you, Comrade Maras. You mentioned Mr. Kujundzic's statement, she's scandalous. Mr. Kujundzic, he certainly shouldn't have said that, he should have said that, HZZO will do everything it can to help any child. And if that won't be enough, then we'll do whatever else we have to do, including humanitarian action. I'm gonna give my pocket to help those kids. I offered the 100,000 kunas that the Living Wall had on the bill at the time when the hospital was being talked about. That I'm not going back to that case. So they'd say in America... That is, we must make the most of our efforts to get rid of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's absurd that on the one hand we give that kind of money to planes, radar, long-range artillery, and on the other hand we don't have that kind of money for kids. Not just for sick kids, there's a problem eating in schools too. We've seen in media reports that kids who go to school sometimes don't have to eat, let them crash. What's the quality of that schooling, if you're hungry in class? Very small. What will you remember, what will you learn? What will your motivation be, to go to school? What's your perspective? Not at all. Is that some big money? I don't believe it. I don't believe it's some big money. It's just not a priority. There. We'll have planes, which unfortunately, don't let God attack us, but unfortunately we'll use the corner. For appliances, or for celebrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60297	I thank Mr. Sincic. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60298	Thank you very much, dear representative Sincic. So here you were talking about some of the illogicalities that this budget and our EU membership offer. So, by decision of the UK of the EU, in 2019 we will have to pay 510 million kuna more per year for European bureaucracy. And it's amazing that I was talking this morning at the stop about sick children, there are 50 of them, from spinal muscle atrophy, whose treatment would cost like 20 million euros and they would be completely healthy afterwards, and we would send a message, so that we would take care of those who are most vulnerable, most unprotected. And Minister Maric will have 510m kuna for red tape. They'll find that without a problem. They'll find a much bigger amount. Here, a few days ago he put us in charge of 10 billion kuna for the entire amount of the Ministry of Health. He can finance the full amount of the Ministry of Health, he just needs to take a walk with the bankers, and 10 billion is there. If you need, no problem, he celebrates like we did on super terms, 3%, I don't know how much, 2.5, and he doesn't say that at the same time the Slovenes don't know, they're in charge of 0.8%, 5 times less interest than you. But it doesn't matter. Here we have in our budget 10 billion kuna, which we will pay interest. That's what it Again, another health ministry is spent on unnecessary duties, on paying interest, and that's the government's policy. The policy of this government is to owe the country and then to claim that we have grown. It's not growth. It's just a continuation of the opening of Pandora's box, which will be paid by our children and our grandchildren and it's easy for the public to speak out loud and clear. Borrowing has never done anyone any good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60299	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. My colleague Sincic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60300	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. That fellow Bunjac, unfortunately, is all a matter of priority. If you're looking at those amounts going towards Europe, that's all... million items, 400 million, 300 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you're watching how much money we're paying for interest payments, too. If you're looking at all those bonds that are broadcast, the vault records, they're huge figures, it's turning to a man in the head, especially a citizen who works for some average salary. Clearly, the government has the money to double its funds from 200 million to 400 million. We still don't know for what, the answer I didn't get now, I didn't get it last year. Why do they need twice as much money? So it's not the ministries, the ministries are special, for the government as such. And before that, the previous governments worked for those about 200 circuses. But this one needs 400 now. So we're, I'm the one who gave the amendment, I'm sure it won't pass. The amendments to the opposition are symbolic, almost 100% in cases. An amendment that will enable, i.e. whose idea is to show the absurdity of so much cost increase for the government and to give the funds where that money will be multiplied, and it is precisely in education and in schooling of children. It should be a priority, not an increase in the government's costs. The government needs to watch it cut. And in places where all normal countries put priorities, we must therefore reach a national consensus and focus all efforts. Every year is a lost year, every generation which, therefore, this budget does not cover is unfortunately a lost generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60301	I thank my colleague Sincic for his reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60302	I would like to thank Mr Vice President, dear Minister, here is something I will say today about the proposal for a State Budget for 2018. It's kind of the view of us at the SDP club that incomes have been moving, that expenditures are moving and that some facts are being warned. It is certainly that the growth of public consumption continues and this is the third year in a row. The expenditure increases by five billion kuna more than the original budget for 2017. One part of the commitment is agreed, we are aware that you can't just leave overnight to change those commitments, and most of the expenditure is actually actually increasing from that segment primarily employee expenditures are higher by 1.4 billion kuna. The main reason is to amend the Collective Contract for civil servants and subsistence staff and the higher groundwork in public services. Material costs are increasing by 627 million kuna. It seems to me that this large part actually refers to actually dragging hospitals into the state budget. The peace is indexed, so the pension increase will be 1.4 billion kuna. However, we have an increase in other items such as the transfer to HZZO for about half a billion kuna, for parental leave 157 million, for defenders 180, capital investments particularly here were talked about defending around 800 million kuna. However, expenditures are said to be increasing. It's positive that they don't grow more than they do economic growth. However, what is certainly for, as we have warned here today and through certain replicas that the overall budget deficit, to be covered exclusively by higher tax revenues. So I would just say briefly the relationship between tax revenues when we're in some economic growth and when it was actually a recession. In addition, it should be noted that during the crisis, the Republic of Croatia recorded a greater reduction in gross domestic product than other countries, so by the logic of things, because we have a smaller base, it was expected that we will now have more economic growth than other countries. As far as fiscal sustainability is concerned, it is a case-by-case game and due to positive economic developments it is not currently questionable, but the overall consolidation of public finances in the last two years rests exclusively on revenue on the side of the budget, i.e. in the wind of favourable economic opportunities. There is also a certain legality that, at a time of growth in the economy, budget revenues are particularly linked to consumption such as VAT and excise duties growing faster than economic growth, and at a time of recession they fall faster than the economic downturn. Tourism revenues are growing thanks to the security the Republic of Croatia still has in relation to other countries' main competitors in tourism. That's how the tax income structure shows. For example, VAT and excise duties and profit tax. For example, in 2015, the amount of these taxes to the state budget, meaning we are talking about VAT, profit tax and excise duties totaled HRK 63 billion. In 2018, it amounts to 73 billion kuna. So VAT, profit and excise tax in 2015, 2018. 10 billion kuna more revenue in the 2018 budget. So almost 16% higher. I'm showing ratios with the growth of the economy, while we know that economic growth has been much smaller. So economic growth if you add up this three years somewhere around 8%, tax revenues rise 16%. So twice as much tax revenue as it is an economy. And that's what happened to us when there was an economic crisis. Our economy fell in total cumulated in those six years about 13%, our tax revenues fell much higher. And that is what is the sensitivity of the state budget, which we are very sensitive, which has shown in the crisis, and therefore these warnings are that in the future if there is a crisis that we have to save already that we do not have such a huge economic downturn and that the state is very, very slowly responding, and unfortunately such a budget that most of the budgets are actually social transfers wanted me to admit it or not. If we're talking about pensions, spending somewhere 38 billion kuna. If we know that our farmers who receive certain funds, by which we transfer or from EU funds, are clean social transfers when we know that they are numerous social benefits, they are social transfers. And now what's your situation? If you experience a crisis, no government can enter, because when a crisis happens to create even greater social problems, it goes into cutting these social benefits because most of them are unfortunately social transfers, unfortunately. As the economy is, I'll just give one review of the tax policy because there's a lot to be expected here from tax. There is always much to be expected, I think that in this part of the tax reform has received some successes, however, in order not to be fooled that other ministries or other specific groups that need to contribute to structural reforms in order to transfer everything to the Ministry of Finance some excessive expectations of the impact of the tax. Well, just to tell you the truth, it means in 2003, you'd get a picture of how tax was moving. These three taxes, VAT, excise duties and profit taxes were $39 billion, 2020. 78 billion kuna. So we're in one period, and we know that we've been through a crisis of that period, more than doubled these three groups of incomes. That's certainly where the GDP went up. However, what is more important is the share of these three types of taxes has increased in GDP. And that's why it's important and here the government actually showed that, if you look at the budget, the economic growth is as much as it shows, 2.9%, right? However, when you see how much your individual income structures have grown, you'll get the same story I've been telling. Your contributions rise 5%, your VAT rises 7.3%, your profit tax rises around 16%, so all categories of taxes increase you much more than you grow economic growth. But what we're actually trying to warn is that's actually what the European Commission in the document warned the government about, so not because we want to be bad, etc., but simply to warn because that's what happened to us. That's what happened to us when we ran it. They say the crisis in Agrokor also poses a direct risk to budgetary projections, meaning in European Commission documents. Also, what is said, the reliability of the projections on which budget plans are based remains weak. So this isn't a criticism to the minister, unfortunately, the most difficult is always the Minister of Finance when it comes to putting together the budget, it's always the hardest. You've always given whoever you've given a little to, whoever you've taken, a lot you've taken, and I'm going to tie that up later on about the use of EU funds primarily because it applies to that too. The State Audit Office also warned of poor budget planning primarily when talking about the use of EU funds. In addition, the European Commission states, non-financial transactions which may affect debt are not sufficiently taken into account. Especially here is thought primarily of public enterprises, management of public enterprises that one day have not been implemented so-called. structural reforms, especially in railways, especially in some of the cesar industries that just go to the budget and greatly increase your share of debt. Also what the European Commission says and what we are actually warning about, says the late implementation of a comprehensive public administration reform. Furthermore, the harmonisation of the wage-setting framework has been postponed for 2019. Further, it said, high regulatory costs have been announced that they will be abolished, however, the commission says, but implementation is slow to progress. What we are saying and what we are trying to say, this short-term impact of budget revenue does not have to look like 2018 and 2019, especially if we know that in 2018, even in 2019, the real effect of Agrokor will be. What's gonna happen? We see here there's an increase in profit tax for how many payments there are going to be. I want it to happen that way. However, we are aware that no other supplier has corrected its balance sheets. Why? The deal is not yet concluded, all suppliers, if unfortunately this was achieved by the Commissioner, that they would have to write off 70% of their claim, will all end in a minus. Everyone will end up in a minus, and it's not a problem just because they've been there for a year or a few years, depending on how much they're going to be minus, not paying the profit tax, but it's going to be that problem that was actually mentioned here today that economic growth except for consumption is based on investment. We need to know that the entire investment potential of these companies will be exhausted, that there will be no regrets and we see what happened, there was a large aversion of banks to finance companies that were suppliers of Agrokor. I don't think any Agrokor suppliers can, unfortunately, get credit today because they've been giving them credit to buy their own bonds. However, what will be the investment potential of a number of suppliers in 2018, 2019. Today it was said that we had changed the structure of the economy and that it was more based on exports. We see, unfortunately, recently in the media it began to say that one of our shipyards is in trouble, it's very difficult for me to hear it at all, because we know what kind of shipyard it was in 2010, 2011, that it got into the restructuring program, that they had a full book of orders for ships, the government was giving them guarantees, and I think it's good and that it should continue, that they should be helped. Do you know how much they participate in exports? Enough. Shipyards certainly participate in exports, and we have seen recent media statements that they are in potential problems. What about all those suppliers participating in the Agrokora system, who are exporting to BiH, Serbia, Slovenia markets. How are we going to reflect this on our exports? Are we just going to be on export, and we are talking in this budget or projections to base ourselves in the largest part of the export, and not so much on consumption, although here it is ultimately saying that it is neutral because of very high imports, the question is whether in the future it will continue to be on tourism and investment in hotels up to five stars do we see that we have also come to a level of reinvestment. The question arises how much further Croatian tourism, and much of it we always expect, can give a certain rent and not just fill the budget but the whole part? We're only playing one card. And that's why it would be good for us to be here when it's debated, in any case, about the budget to hear what export industries are going to reduce our economic risk in the future. Is what turned out to be that those export-based economies went into crisis, with them having a smaller economic downturn, they recovered much faster. Unfortunately, because of the structure of the Croatian economy which was mainly import-oriented, the fact that we had a negative balance of payments actually hit the most about VAT in that part was that they paid for trade in the largest part of the VAT and we had the deepest recession, the deepest recession that was ultimately paid by Croatian citizens. And that's why I'd like reforms to happen, what they were saying was that certain reforms were going to happen in the economy, but I'm afraid that the economy with this impact of Agrokor, which is not realistically shown in this budget, has not been affected by economic growth, but through certain budget revenues and not because you know that the largest part of this is talking about VAT somewhere around 50 billion kuna. A third of the largest share of VAT fills you with shops or companies that are engaged in retail... and we know Agrokor held a third of the market. Now we need to be very careful here when we project such things and say that they may not have happened, but we must clearly warn if the next crisis and the next recession if we happen again, a very strong drop in income will happen, and then again whoever is behind Minister Maric will be in trouble again, seeking certain savings on certain items. And that's why we think it should, I say it's not a criticism minister, it's the hardest thing for him to put together this budget is that the wishes and needs of all ministers when they see it, here's the minister that got 10 billion kunas more revenue and very hard to understand, it's very difficult, and there are certain obligations that he has to pay off that are agreed that you simply can't move on with their realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60303	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first replica of a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60304	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovec, you have highlighted certain risks in your exposure that I have now noticed that there is no one else here, Vice President. You're out of place, I didn't know you were listening from... the back. Okay, well, I didn't notice you. I'm not one representative, and you're one minister. I, Mr Vice President, think, by our Rules of Procedure, a representative of the Government should be present if I'm right. or present as you wish, and as far as MPs are concerned, it is not quite appropriate for government representatives to keep records when someone is here and when they are not. [[Intruding Brkić: He is present here.]] Sometimes our citizens do it and let them resent me or don't mind me if I'm here or if I'm not. So much for that. But Mr. Lalovec, now that he's here, I can tell you more freely that you've noticed certain risks, and one of the risks is this very conservative approach to planning GDP growth, which means that the finance minister doesn't trust the government or himself. And when we remember those 5% of GDP growth promises of employment that will flourish in the Republic of Croatia, I'm surprised, which is why you think there's been such a conservative approach that our GDP growth is shrinking in the coming years by three and a half percent, here's 2.6, and next year even less. So I'm a little worried about that pessimism, and I'd like you to tell me your opinion on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60305	I thank Mr. Maras. A fellow Lalovec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the link between economic growth and the use of eu funds will also try to show you. We are reducing our projections of economic growth, and what are we doing on the other hand? We strongly state that we will withdraw funds from the eu funds. In 2016 and 2017 there is somewhere an increase in the euro funds with the withdrawal from the eu funds we were about 7.7 billion kuna, in the 2018 budget is about 13.8 billion kuna, and then later it goes to 14 billion kuna, and eu funds are your main source of financing for economic growth. And now the government says no, no, we will go from today's 3.2% to 2.9% next year regardless of which we will greatly increase tax revenues and profit tax etc. And more than we'll double the eu component from 7.7 billion kuna to 13.8 billion kuna. So I have to admit it means that this economic part of growth probably in this context acknowledges that the influence of Agrokora will seem to be present to me. However, what is being looked at is not being looked at in the budget. And what was actually a grudge for colleagues who were actually filling the EU funds that unfortunately the budget rebalances will happen again next year because we will not use most of these EU funds again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60307	I thank Mr. Lalovec for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60308	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, you spoke in your presentation about how this budget will work in the atmosphere in Croatian society. So the good government is causing positive emotions, positive energy among citizens, while the bad government is causing rescribing and general apathy. The budget is like a ID. So when citizens look at this budget, or when they talk, they see what that budget offers, the only thing they can do is fall into further depression. So what you've just replicated to your colleagues, and what I particularly wanted to say, is the poor usability of European funds. So it seems to me that some of the people who send us these messages about European funds have some glasses like when you go to a 3D movie, so if you want to see it well, you have to get 3D glasses like when you go to see a 3D movie, so if you want to see it well, you have to get 3D glasses. They seem to have some other glasses that we all don't have, so we don't see what they see, and the best example is the debacle that was with the European Medicines Agency where we were assured by Minister Kujundzic in particular that we are the best and that we will get that agency without a problem. I'm afraid that's exactly what doesn't happen with the same picture and the use of European funds in the coming years. But what is particularly concerned is that we do not see any structural reforms from the budget anywhere, and this is especially true for health care, and this is especially true for education. So, for nothing and these almost over a billion kunas that rebalancing entered the health system when again, the brilliant Minister Kujundzic did not implement any reform to spend these funds in a way that the health outcomes are better. And unfortunately, education as a key that should be sent to citizens by some kind of positive message to especially young generations is not the winner of this budget, but actually, if we look at the ratios, unfortunately, is a loser again. So I don't even know how to send a positive message based on this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60309	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Come in, mate Lalovec's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60310	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jovanovic, it doesn't matter just that today in this debate we're going to point out that there are no structural reforms, and I believe it's not easy to make them, because you can't make let's be honest with 78 hands you can't make structural reforms. We had a number of MPs and when we wanted to implement certain reforms and when we had a much more stable government of a particular structure in society, you simply couldn't make a more significant move. That is what the European Commission's document also points to. In each sentence, he says: “But the implementation is progressing slowly. Compensation of the framework for payment adjustment postponed for 2019 The late implementation of a comprehensive public administration reform. 30% of the population is on the border, unfortunately poverty is only 0.6%. The plans are still weak. Unfortunately, it is not that they would criticise, because this is not about individual EU funds exploitation, it is not only about individual ministers, but ultimately we see that we have a very weak public administration, a very weak public administration because this public administration should withdraw EU funds unrelated to who its minister is, unrelated to who his minister is. You know that you also had in Belgium, that Belgium couldn't put the government together for years, and that they were very well withdrawn and that they were functioning without the government. That's what it is, no matter what government tomorrow was that that public administration works. That's what we're talking about. And then it can no longer happen that so much responsibility is being transferred to a particular minister, but the public administration and here is not the problem of additional payment of that public administration. Unfortunately, however, there is no such thing as rewarding, that those working on the EU are being paid additionally. And we'll support it here. But such a reform, which actually the Deputy Prime Minister Dalic announced when she was in opposition, I wish she was as Deputy Prime Minister now to spend it and we will support her there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60311	Thank you, Mr. Lalovac. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60312	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, you have explained in fact your view of GDP growth less as some kind of economic growth, and more as a higher income to the state budget on some grounds of tax. However, what I would ask you, I think I'm not in that section as professional as you are interpreting this kind of pessimism that can be read from the State Budget projections for the nineteenth and twentieth year when we see that the government is actually economic growth if this year 2.9% we see that in 2019 they are actually planning smaller economic growth 2.6% seems to me and in 2020 2.5%. What does that mean? Is that a sign for the alarm and should we sit down right now, okay? that the budget is better filled, but all of its weaknesses in terms of economic growth, whether or not we should have taken the approach of more savings, rather than throwing on certain items and ministries. And secondly, I don't know if you've seen it, but I haven't noticed in the budget that, let's say, the means to buy INA are what was promised to Croatian citizens where certain political points were collected. Have you seen how the government thinks to put into active state property which are very important should be income. And third, did you see in the budget that funds to establish the Agrarian Bank, which was also one of the more important promises of the HDZ in their pre-election programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60313	I thank my colleague, Voter. Come in, mate Lalovec's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleagues related to the use of or revenue from the sale of non-financial assets are listed somewhere around 800 million kuna. I talked to Mr. Goran Maric today, and I asked him in fact in most of which he actually expects a certain part of the income, so he told me that these are relations to these four hotel companies that are still state-owned and he thinks it's positive and it's good, because these hotel companies are supposed to be on the market and they should already be on the market, that in fact, and find a certain private owner and that kind of speed in which the state will solve its specific portfolio, should certainly be welcomed. Why? Because in the future, all these hotel companies, in order to be privatised, the Ministry of Finance has through history taken over their debts and they entered into public debt. And I wish they'd been privatised long ago and found on the market their customers, and in the future they wouldn't be burdening public debt. What's the fact is that you can't find the INA asset in the budget, actually, is the question, can't the government function in that way at all, can't buy as the Ministry of Finance or don't know what it's called, the Ministry of State of Property. But it's probably supposed to be done, it's one operation we see just so announced, but technically it's been standing for a year. And also related to this Agram bank, unfortunately, a lot has been said about how it will help farmers, however, what I think is a fact that we have to work, that the banking sector that has more, much more money than it has the state to lower interest rates and finance farmers, as farmers are financed in Europe. I think it's a much better way to go than to set up some extra money, some extra banks, so you'd probably be in those banks... some politicians and then shared the money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60315	Thank you, colleague Lalovec. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60316	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You were talking about projections here, I'd like to read a projection here that's being read from the Justice Department. So, I've already read how much we give for USKOK at the annual level since 2016-2020, so, 21 million, 23, 25, 26,26. It's somewhere in that line. On the other hand, there's also an arbitration point of INA-MOL, which goes something like this, like 6, 49, 23, 23, some smaller 1,000, so I guess the process ends. What I was going to say. So, because on time he didn't give money to the judiciary, which in time he didn't stop... Sanader, I don't know who. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This problem is multiple, so today we find ourselves in a situation, that as much as we give each year a Bounce which is not just about it, but with a hundred other things, we have to give the same for only one object that is not solved in time. If we'd given the money in time, we'd have saved multiples. Multiple. But it happens to us that there's no will to clear up the situation in the judiciary, you want bankruptcy, you want land books, you want courts of this kind or that kind, you want the State's Attorney's office, judicial police, judicial inspection, whatever you want, there's no will to fix that apparatus. But we allow citizens to suffer damage until things grow. And then it happens to us to give more for arbitration than we give to contain, not just those arbitrations, but a hundred other cases. It's an absurd with very negative projections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60317	I thank my colleague, Sincic. A fellow Lalovec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree I'd prefer if we'd actually heard of judicial reform, because we've seen recent cases ourselves, that it's actually... Croatian society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, my colleague Bulj talked a lot about how long our bankruptcy lasted, how the property was being devalued. As it was actually sold a lot into priceless assets, how companies were brought into bankruptcy, just how some valuable assets would come into existence, where some certain resales were later made, etc., etc. And then when you see you stay shocked by the amounts managed by individual bankruptcy managers. And you can see that a single bankruptcy manager managed with a much higher amount than the entire State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK manages the money. Now the question is, is it really some way that we can limit, introduce control of management and of bankruptcy managers and all of these. Because it's abnormal for me to think that after a few years, that the guy they're investigating, that they have, that the whole team has a lot less money than just the one who's actually trying to see if he's been doing it by law or not. It's certainly in the future, but it's not a problem of money if the government says we need it for educational reform, someone's been saying today, we need 200, 300 or 400 million kuna. After years, how it's going to go, etc. However, unfortunately, here you just throw yourself with... reforms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the final evaluations of each single reform are not really seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60319	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Lalovec. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60320	Thank you very much Chairman, colleague Lalovec, and you yourself said EU funds are essentially, economically would be an imputation, i.e. the development of economic EU funds. The fact that the Republic of Croatia is still making more payments in European, its membership fees and everything else it needs, rather than returning to Croatia. So we're down here. As far as the observation itself is concerned, that means we've reached 4.5% of the planned. Every year we repeat ourselves, we have agreed billions, more than planned. As a matter of fact, we're in a terrible bad position. Therefore, around 4 billion kunas paid by Croatia annually. We could make the Peles Bridge ourselves, and we could go back a lot less. We are still paying in the European cash register together, and in fact projects are being built in other countries. And we're poor. Another very important question for our budget was, so these are banks, and you yourself said, but what you have said so far countless times, I think it is time that finally in Croatia the banks behave like in other countries, mainly where they come from. So that's how you know for yourself, and that's what you're talking about, that 4 billion kuna fees and bank fees are taken annually to our citizens, to legal entities. It's without, it's not interest, you're saying it yourself. What to do, when a legal proposal comes here to tax the property of banks, which would be normal and... is the biggest winners in the Republic of Croatia and there is no feeling there at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So basically side by side with bankers, they're agents to banks, not to protect citizens and entrepreneurs. So the brake investment is essentially the ones that should essentially encourage the economy, which is obviously government and banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60321	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. A fellow Lalovec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60322	Thank you very much. So I'm telling you especially when I'm talking about EU funds this year we used 7.7 billion kuna. By the end of the year, although in the rebalance it was reduced from 11 to 9, next year it was 13.8, then 14, then 15 billion. Unfortunately, the government is somewhere on 78. It's very bad, so we haven't built an institution that no matter what government it was, and we know that from year to year we're actually kind of leaving the money and that we're all addicted to whether or not a minister sits there. So I'd be happy to really build that institution and say how much it costs. Let them say how much it costs, which are quality personnel who can withdraw funds and call a competition and negotiate and all the unrelated that the minister sits. Well, then we'll be a European country. As long as we depend on the Minister is he in Zagreb, is he out there, is he going to meet someone, will he not meet, etc. Unfortunately, there's no such thing as luck, and then actually all the debates that are going to take place here are actually going to come down to some kind of accusations about who's more pulled out, who's less pulled out. The Republic of Croatia withdrew less, it is saddened. So that's what we're talking about. We're not talking about a single minister. And when we start talking about the fact that the Republic of Croatia has less retreated, then we really shouldn't have to pollemize about it anymore. But as far as banks are concerned, you're right. Some gross fees are about 4 billion kuna. Some of their net interest profits are actually around 10 billion kuna, and that is the fact that now it is finally starting to come legal proposals that Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs, farmers when they bottle their own particular product can finance their agricultural production by 2 to 3%, and not unfortunately 7 to 8% then they have to borrow their tractor, their plow and can all be borrowed and then they actually come and simply can't place the product because there... You can buy anything for one kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60323	Thank you, colleague Lalovec. Another replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60324	Thank you, Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Lalovac about a consolidated budget and extra- budget users, which is a multi-year problem that you have also met. So here I am the budget of all budget users is actually a fifth of the total budget consolidated and we see that in fact a share in the deficit or percentage of GDP you see in this table is actually reducing their contribution, and in 2020 it will even be to 0.60 positive GDP, which means that yet some interventions and certain shifts in solving actually see this problem. How much will it be and how effective it will be is now a great job you know well because it is also about the Croatian Institute of Health and according to the problem of otherwise financing health care, then Croatian roads, and also water etc. So there is, however, an integral part of the changes and reforms that will still be implemented. And I'm saying that there's still a certain way of achieving rationalization and consolidation in the right sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60325	I thank my colleague, Peric. A fellow Lalovec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well esteemed colleagues means it's not a problem when you bring out today is actually the budget we should have heard about how it's going to come to that and it's supposed to be the first law, so then it's going to be. And he doesn't say, first he says we'll show it, and then one day we'll pass the law. I would like today to be intro today, or if the prime minister said or any of the ministers said that, these are extra- budget funds, the laws are in the process, they will be together with the budget, etc. Then there's no problem in having a much better discussion. We would have a much better discussion today, and here I am a little bit with my colleague Butkovic, I personally think that this is the government recently which has done a restructuring of the debt that this is a good thing and I have said it publicly whether someone will criticise it because in that part we managed to use one part of the money, refinance the debt and the minister actually as much as it can actually use that part favourably on the financial market and it is positive and it has nothing, you never heard from me that I'm going to criticise. I think it's a good thing it was done for the roads to extend a certain duration, reduce interest, and now that one pressure on future finance ministers will be much less. But it's a lot. We've got railroads, we've got a lot more others, and we see a health problem. And I say all such suggestions that you make from me you'll get yourself no matter what I say from me you'll get support. The problem, however, is that we hear very little of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60327	I thank my colleague, Lalovec. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the PGS and LRI Representatives Club, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the beginning, I will say that the PGS and LRI IDS Club will not support this proposal for the national budget for 2018 as well as the projections for 2019 and 2020. For what reason? Because frankly, we expected a lot more from this budget. More in terms of indicators of the long-term direction of development of the Republic of Croatia through the decentralisation process, which is simply lagging behind. We see from the proposed budget that, for 2018, the government budget's revenue growth of 6.1% was planned in relation to the current budget. The expected growth in tax revenues next year is at 3.4% higher than this year's. Which is where you plan only to increase VAT revenues by 7.3%. The projections suggest that the main generator of Croatian economy growth will be personal consumption while the contribution of net exports will be slightly negative. Growth based on domestic consumption opens up risks to growth sustainability especially if more serious structural reforms are not implemented. In this context, it would be desirable for the Government to point out, in the light of the draft budget, items to reduce expenditure in the event that planned expenditures are not implemented. In addition to the risk of less revenue than planned, there is also a risk on the side of expenditure, e.g. of pending lawsuits on both domestic and international grounds. And it is certain that the intensity of growth in personal consumption will slowly weaken as the effects of tax reform are exhausted. So further strengthening exports is necessary to maintain economic growth as well as investment growth, however, the current level of investment is far from pre-crisis. Not to discuss whether it is realistic to expect these figures and whether they will come true, I want to look back at the sectors in which the government has failed to invest or invest too little funds as it has been in recent years. With the proposed increase in spending on buying social peace and support, the government reiterates what we have repeatedly stressed, that there is neither determination nor courage to implement full reforms to strengthen the economy, which is the first and basic prerequisite for meeting all the needs of our societies, i.e. Our citizens. By strengthening the economy and creating new jobs, stability and security would be achieved, demographic growth would be stimulated, emigration would be reduced to contribute to an overall change in the state. A study was published a few days ago, an analytical basis for the progress reports on the implementation of the Partnership Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission which developed a team of researchers from the Institute for the Development of International Relations, which assesses Croatia's relative position compared to the EU average in the post-accession period. According to their conclusions, Croatia is unable to improve its relative position in relation to other member states and this is reflected in many areas, including demographic development, innovation, waste management and water quality, rail transport and the availability of high-speed broadband internet, then in the quality of the rule of law, youth employability, internationalisation of higher education and other very important areas. By reading this draft budget, we should see what the government plans are and what it intends to invest in by 2020 in order to improve the situation of Croatia. And what can we spot? We can see that for some of those sectors, the government predicted an increase in budget compared to previous years, however, because of insufficient investment that has been going on for years, these are certainly not figures that can impress us, let alone trigger positive trends. So, for example. the budgetary resources allocated to the railways remain approximately at the same level as the previous years. And we all know the state of our railways and how far away we are from providing modern passenger, freight, rail services as they exist in developed Europe. In this connection, of course, the possibility of attracting investment and providing a cheaper alternative to transporting goods and preserving the environment, reducing the emissions of harmful gases. In addition, they are underinvested in the construction of new and reconstruction of existing railway lines, such as The Lupoglav freight line... in Istria, which could and should be the cheapest link for the transport of goods from the Adriatic to Central Europe or an example of the river-Zagreb railway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For population policy measures that the government has been declaring since the start of the government, about 250 million kunas have been allocated more than this year including extended maternity leave and equipment for newborns. In a country that has so damaged a demographic image such as Croatia, for which projections have been made that in 10 years' time, only 3 million inhabitants will fall. Not to mention the consequences of the pension, health, education and financial system, these funds are certainly insufficient. In addition, we all know that young families will not choose to expand their family because of a few hundred or even thousands of kunas of compensation and help. Demographic growth must be encouraged by attracting investment and creating new jobs, creating a comprehensive incentive environment from work to housing, increasing living standards, social stability and security. There is unfortunately no indication of such comprehensive and comprehensive long-term solutions in this draft budget. I'd say we put out a fire with little buckets and we're in a position to put them out with canaders. As we listen to the ruling, the budget seems optimistic. But there is no item that would show seriousness and vision for that future. For example, I will indicate the making available of unused state property. It is precisely with the aim of creating a comprehensive incentive environment that will trigger positive demographic trends, it is indeed regrettable to witness the situation that we have in Croatia today. a it is a situation where huge agricultural areas and buildings, in one word untapped state assets, stare empty and fail instead of being transferred by the state by the decentralisation process to local and regional self-government with a view to a faster and more efficient positioning and creating new values. In the past two years, not much has been done in relation to decentralisation and management of state assets, and these budget projections show that the government has no intention of carrying out the promised decentralisation. One concrete example of a former military station in Pula has also been shown here to bring planned investment to new employment, but also positive consequences for filling the state budget. Total investment of 189m euros would bring to the state budget an inflow of €19.5 million annually from profit tax and €14.4 million annually from VAT on food and drink. Instead of such mutual benefits for the local level and the central state you decided not to do anything and leave state property to further collapse. But as I initially mentioned for the state level in this budget, I don't see a vision of investment in the future of Istria by the state. It only invests in what is most necessary and not a step further than that. You're not looking long-term and sustainable again. The necessity of decentralisation of the IDS club from this pay phone is constantly talking and we will continue, we will be persistent, we will continue because not only has nothing changed in terms of decentralisation but we are going to go up, according to even greater centralised, as the proposal for the newest Law on the financing of local self-government, the proposal for a law on regional development, and we are still waiting for a new Law on State Property Management. When you have not already allowed the local level to fully develop its environment through functional and financial decentralisation and take full responsibility for its actions and policies, we expected to see in the budget how you help local units with those money that is not available to them. Thus, there is no budget for the rehabilitation and upgrade of nursing homes, schools, special hospitals and health homes in Istria. I would like to stress that the University of Yuri Dobrila in Pula is also the only university that reduces funds from the state budget year to year. In addition, because of the government's slowness to amend operational programmes to allow co-financing of projects left out in existing operational programmes, which have been left out precisely for reasons of non-cooperation between state levels and local or regional self-government. Now we are not even able to run, let alone implement countless projects. I will give a few examples, and this refers specifically to investment in port infrastructures in the ports in Pula, Poreč, Rovinj, Vrsar, Tara and Rabac, in order to correct this damage done by the state should simply co-finance these projects from the state budget. If the state hadn't been centralised and all the money didn't go to the state register, they could have realised the most demanding projects themselves, and they shouldn't have asked for money from the state budget, which is neither provided nor planned in the budget. And that's why, as I pointed out in the introduction, this budget proposal to us at the IDS, PGS and RI is not acceptable and we're not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60329	I thank my colleague Demetlika for this debate. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60330	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Demetlika, just two sentences based on what you said was neither from European funds nor in the 2018 budget you see the possibility of financing the construction of new social homes, kindergartens and similar in Istria, and I can say in other parts of our beautiful one. Namely, as we know from European funds, such facilities can be built or run for settlements below 5,000 inhabitants, however, this is not a failure of this government and this ministry but long ago when these operational programmes were agreed on, it was not something like that. As for the Ministry of Regional Development, it can be said that the problem, as is the installation of the lifts for residential buildings and many other projects that are not possible now from European funds, will be financed, will try to be included in this same operational programme in 2018 when we see exactly what is missing, and we do not have funding opportunities, and also when we see how much European funds will remain which will not be covered by the current tender documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60331	I thank my colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. My colleague Demetlika's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60332	Thank you. My colleague, we have also talked about this today on the board and the fact is that Minister Žalac has promised to work quickly on new operational programmes, but we can expect this only after 2020. The fact is that in 2018, but also in the 2019 and 2020 projections, we from the state budget already when we can't for those purposes for which we said kindergartens and similar projects, we can't finance them from European ones, it would normally be that, since the budget provides for an inflow of 13.8 billion European funds then those environments just like the Istrian County and the Primorje-goranska and the city of Zagreb, which will be disabled for some other projects that are financed from European funds, precisely because of the development index, we will be damaged in two ends. One thing that income tax goes to a settlement fund that we will not have the right to help and also from European funds, so we will be cut off by two sides. And that's why we asked that by some decentralisation that is not predicted in 2019 or 2020 we simply do not see the possibility of realising these significant projects precisely for development in our local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60333	I thank my colleague Tulio Demetlik for this answer. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of GLAS, HSU, respected colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60334	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, at the end of a tumultuous day and I am, I am speaking on behalf of the last opposition club GLAS and HSU, as I spoke in 2017, that is, in 2016 when it came to the 2017 budget, also on behalf of a club. And then I said, we're at the club and I repeat it now, we're not going to support the draft of this budget, and here I have... that all that, therefore, that sentence that I said in 2016 may also be 2017, but back to the topic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, looking at the nominal economy and the country's income is growing, which is good news. But also a good opportunity, which the smart and responsible government would take advantage of. However, from the draft budget, we see the old pains of all Croatian budgets, which are often described by one handsome floral development and social. In the theory of growth, any smart government would use as an opportunity to reduce debt, or public deficit, but what we see as a proposal for a state budget, we can characterize, by buying certain social groups. If it wasn't for the first year of office, or you might think it was a pre-election budget, so I have to admit, I have fear and think, in three years, what that actual pre-election budget would look like. Again, looking at the nominal and this budget proposal brings down deficits, but it is reasonable to wonder, is that enough and can it be further reduced? The answer is yes. But before that, let's say, something about how and why the deficit should be reduced. Because in good times fiscal capacity needs to be accumulated, in order to overcome bad periods or simply put, is spared when it is available. The circumstances in which we are presently remind us of the period of rule of Ivo Sanader. With the growth rates at the time being more than they are today. And the current fiscal policy of this government is in this sense not different from that of the government. What is common to both this and this government is that an increase in expenditure happens in an unreformed state. That is, the unreformed system and that structural fiscal adjustment is almost completely gone. In other words, we are left with happiness, circumstances and hope that such a favourable business cycle will continue. But what if it doesn't continue. What if we do not withdraw funds from the EU at the level provided for in this budget. My colleagues before me have already spoken a lot of subjects, and when you speak for the club at the end, then actually, everything is already said, but they have taught me that it's never enough, so let's just say one more time. When it comes to funds, almost half of the planned growth, income, is in the process of increasing the use of European funds. The plan is so optimistic that it predicts growth in amounts that are nowhere near ever feasible. And that's all the government predicts that we saw in the day before yesterday, it was one important candidate for the European Agency's headquarters, and it turns out we didn't fill out the polls as well. We sent 2 Milans and the result of the work of those two Milans was exactly what it was that we had to give up. So, on the reality of these plans let the public judge, but we'll see what happens. What about the health debts? Should we continue to pay debts incurred in an unreformed and irresponsible system? Because there is no guarantee that the health system will settle at the level that it does not create new debts. At least, not while the current minister and current government are in power. I fear that in the future, Croatia's citizens will once again be pounding huge money into the rehabilitation of healthcare, which will continue to create dizzy losses, without any step towards reform and rationalisation of the system. One of the questions why didn't it try to cut the amount for the administration? An increase in the weight of salaries of 1.4 billion kunas, you can't just justify yourself as a result of the application of a collective contract to all employees and tenants. This is due to the lack of public administration reform. The mouth is always full of reforms. But the reform in the beginning starts with a big R, so it turns with a little r, and then all of a sudden, like invisible ink and reform, there's nothing. This equally shows not only the sense of priorities, so let's point out some items. For example, for schools in BIH, we will give 8 million kuna, and for the gifted Croatia, all the gifted Croatia, children in Croatia 2 million kuna. I don't mind, which Croatia helps Croats outside the country, that's our constitutional obligation, but it would be good to think about priorities as well. Speaking of education, let's be clear to the end. There is no curricular reform in the budget. The increase with which this government boasts is an increase in the purchase of equipment, probably informative and it's all OK, but by introducing IT and supplying equipment, it's not a curricular reform and there's nothing to change the very relationship to education. A bunch of expensive tools will be obtained to work on the old and outdated school that we have and which we are not satisfied with. I'm afraid this increase may be to point out once again that it's not a curriculative reform, but it's a smokescreen for not actually being implemented. As has already been said, but let's repeat the figures when it comes to higher education, namely when you ask young people the reasons why they leave the country, one of the reasons is the possibility of education. And we're a training program for scientific recruits lost two years 18 million kuna, so almost half the total funds we had. It is regrettable that this HDZ and HNS government has learned nothing from the example of the HDZ government of Ivo Sanader. Fiscal recovery is the result of a rule of economic activity and favourable conditions of payment of debts, and unfortunately this can be changed very quickly and very easily. The ease you show by this budget can come at a very rapid rate even before you think, and the consequences will be borne as usual by citizens who fill the budget. And it's not going to be filled by planes, or increased defense pensions, or more government and public officials. They'll empty it. Good times to the serious government should not serve to buy votes from certain social groups, but should serve to stabilise fiscal capacity. We're already really at the end of this very hard day, very few of us in the assembly. From this pay phone and through replicas, all fellow MPs and MPs have already said the main thing. But a few really final thoughts. The responsible Government should think at least one step or two in advance, be careful, rule rationally and keep an eye on each item of the budget. The serious government would not leave structural reforms on hold but would use this year to further reduce the deficit. This government is neither responsible nor serious in this regard. That's what the budget's all about. And as I said at the end of 2016, so I will repeat and say again in late 2017, we at the Voice and HSU Club will not support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60335	I thank my colleague, Anki Dark-Taritash, for your time. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60336	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague of mine you've touched in your presentation of EU projects that I've talked about before in the debate. And I still want that part, although it might look back in the context of your debate and reform. So what we do 100% in Croatia is the obligation to pay membership fees as regards the European Union. If we start by realizing that we're not satisfied with the willingness of the projects and the money that we have at our disposal because we're minimally withdrawing them, I'm sure that that's how you and I have the same goal, to attract and withdraw as much money as possible. However, we need to start speaking openly and discuss where the causes are, where we have a narrow throat, whether the local administration has set up an appointment, so we can charge ourselves from the state level to the local level or from the local level to the state level. And when we detect the causes, then we definitely need to talk about who the brakes are. We at the state level have institutions, I will mention Croatian railways where we have such opportunities to attract serious money, make big moves. However, if we do not talk publicly about it, to call responsible people responsible for it, we will lead these discussions from budget to budget, but the shift will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60337	I thank my colleague Giovanni Sponza. My colleague Taritash's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60338	Thank you very much. Comrade Sponza, I agree with you on what you said. When you find an alibi or reasons I have to admit to me is always a good reason when a child comes to school in the morning and has no homework and asks the teacher why she has no homework, he says I had a great homework written but the dog ate it. Now, equally when it comes to withdrawing funds from EU funds, we do it weak and sloppyly and we need to make it clear why we do it weak and sloppyly, draw the line, make an analysis, see where the problem and problems start to solve. If the problem is always in someone else and not in me, that problem will never be solved by those who do so. So we need to see what the problem is, whether procedures are a problem, the way we work. If we don't withdraw that money, they'll be pulled by someone else and we'll move on to the next budget and next year and on the next topic, complain and tell your sad story, your sad destiny, and things won't go away from the dead spot. There were also mentioned in one replica the installation of elevators in multi-state buildings, for me it's a great example where really when you do an analysis it's an excellent project, a good project. If we recognize him in time and we know it's a good project, let's make each other's forces go. Because I'm sure that regardless of we can be world-controlled, we can differ in comparison... policy but in relation to the good projects that benefit our citizens, we must not, and we will not differ. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are some things where the mind is on the pile. Because it's the interest of all of us no matter where we sit here and how we vote on some things. It is our interest to withdraw as much EU funding as possible and develop projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60339	Thank you, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. At the beginning of the presentation, you said that you had read from this budget that certain stakeholders were, therefore, the expenditures were noticeable, i.e. the guidance of the state budget. So can you tell me more precisely which ones. And please comment on why some people aren't, say, State's Attorney's office, why not according to the State Audit Office, the judiciary. So why are these country's krutial institutions being kept at a low level, why the budget towards them is detimulative. Here, please answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60341	I thank you for the replica. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60342	Thank you very much, colleague Lovrinović, for your question in such late hours. So I was one of those who had the opportunity to give the replica to the prime minister while we were still hearing who was replicating and I also mentioned the DORH and I said that you read everything from the budget. You're reading the policy of a government, and what direction that policy wants to go, I should go, so that's when I got the prime minister involved in my replica, but I didn't get the answer. I guess I confused him a little bit. And I said, for years, we've been listening to whether through the public or behind this pay phone or when reports are where DORH colleagues complain that they have too little resources, that they don't work under the appropriate conditions that they don't have anywhere to archive the files, that their files stand in different halls. And then from this budget you take, you calculate and what could be calculated is that for DORH's material costs, it's 333 thousand kuna per month. One man they're going to bring in, I'm sure there are those who have a wallet that doesn't say in the car, in the trunk or in the drawer much more than 333 thousand kuna. It's absolutely strange to expect them to do what they need to do with the means they have. And when I was talking about groups, that's exactly what this is about. Your question may have been better for Minister Maric, I will not enter everything else. But when we read the budget we really see that what you said was intentional, never me, I have too many years to believe it was an accident. It may happen to be once, but when you go from year to year then it's no longer an accident that you're deliberately leaving items the way they are because we don't really want anyone to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60343	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I promised not to, but I couldn't resist. Two things, one thing I'd like to say again to make it clear. In this budget for curricula reform, which means content and change of access to education is when you reject what is for technical equipment and fees remains 4.9 million kuna more. If, as is known, it is said that the total curricula reform takes 500 million, let's say that this 4.9 is five million, 100 years, 100 years we're going to be doing a curricular reform. So we're not doing it. It's the only thing read from the budget. And second, this scandalous situation now, as you colleagues of Mrak-Taritash have said to two Milans, i.e. by the fact that we gave up because we have not prepared ourselves to try to get the European Medicines Agency. This is about the same way of preparing, even simpler way of preparing than for looking for European funds from European funds. So if we are not able to fill out a questionnaire asking how many direct flights to the European capital there are from Zagreb, how can we count with such certainty on European funds where we need to prepare a little more seriously than it was necessary for this candidacy for which we have failed to meet the questionnaire properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60345	I thank my colleague Pusic. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60346	Thank you very much. So really two topics, one topic of curricular reform. At what you said, I can only tell you from one joke. He says whether you believe in your eyes or my words. Now, when it comes to the budget, we take the budget and trust our eyes. We're still taking a little bit of the calculator, calculating what we're calculating. Words are one thing. You can tell someone a little nicer, someone a little less nice, but the eyes are the eyes. Look, read everything else. But when it comes to an application for an agency, so you know no matter who's sitting in this assembly, no matter who's prime minister or who's prime minister, or when he becomes prime minister or when he becomes mayor of the city you live in, he's your prime minister, your mayor. And when you see some situations, you're embarrassed. So, when I saw really what I said the two Milans who went and talked there about the importance that Croatia should get it for me, it was embarrassing, I looked down and I was even embarrassed to watch it. When you want to do something, you go with the strongest team, you go with the strongest team. Do whatever it is. In this way you show the will and desire of the country for a certain step. This was one occasion regardless of what might have happened at the end of it all, we wouldn't have even entered that lottery that was finally between the two cities. But we should have gotten ready best, gone to the best team possible, shown that we cared. What is the consequence of all this abandonment we have shown that we do not care and will remain recorded and will remain unfortunately the images of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60347	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. We have another replica. Dear colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60348	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues, here I am attaching myself to this problem of curriculative reform or illegal reduction of curriculative reform on the purchase of information equipment. Indeed, if we wait for the next 100 years to secure funds for the curricular reform, and in all likelihood, we will expect that curricula reform with that information equipment that we will obtain next year, then the curriculative reform is announced to us and it becomes a religious givenness because one who can believe that the curricula reform will come true and that knowledge as one man's most relevant possession will come to us by obtaining information equipment in 2018 and that the public is convinced that this is exactly what Croatia's education system needs, then we are truly an apologetic historical situation in which we will find little to come out of it and 100 years. Furthermore, I see this aporytic situation in what is announced halfway next year, and yet it is an illegal demographic population measure that is reduced to social scale. What does that mean? This means that we have decided to introduce children's allowances to many families of 100, 200, 300 kuna, we will give them, and at the same time we will cut tax breaks to the middle layer. Families belonging to the middle layer will be left, for example, without a thousand and 150 kuna if it is a family with two children. So again, this is about an illegal policy, and that is why we can really approach this budget with awe as the believer approaches every religious gift.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60349	I would like to thank my colleague, Vučetić. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60350	Thank you very much. I'd say a few things about you, so maybe I'll head back and forward. So you're saying something that means demographic revitalization. That's what we use most recently. Of course, this measure, which is concerned with one social measure. It's not a measure of demographics or restoration, or revitalization, or anything like that. I'll take advantage of what my colleague Demetlika said, and you have a pot of water and you'll put out the fire, and you should have a canadora. So, it's about really social. The same is the word that we have the opportunity to see from when the tax-related set started, that we are actually constantly impoverishing the middle layer, and on the middle layer should be based on further development. So we are basically through these policies that this government is now implementing these people we are forcing them to go and look for their better future from Croatia. And to get back to the beginning of your question, you're on your way with a curriculative reform. And we're all aware that it's actually what you trust me to say that, and actually what you see, you see it isn't. So let's be realistic. So today every kid of two or three years takes a smartphone, a smart phone, and a barat with him. Children of 5.6 years before school learn programming already. So I can really say for myself that I'm in these situations far behind. And now we have decided something very important to introduce information as a mandatory subject in the 5th or 6th grade. What are we gonna do about it? So the question is, what did we want? Looks to me like we wanted to buy new information equipment and make some kind of a new mess at school because now the question is, is there enough teachers, there isn't. It's not a curical reform with that I absolutely agree with you. That's something else entirely, and they figure when you divide and you see 100 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60351	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash, for your reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60352	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The objectives of this budget, which is visible, have a trend or trend of fiscal sustainability, project economic growth and, with certain budgetary positions, also increased cost control with the ultimate objective of reducing public debt. They are seen in projections and trends of further tax discharge with a final goal means that Croatia's credit rating returns to that investment. Today, there were many speeches on the one hand and on the other about the budget and those who were either on the one hand or on the other the most fierce opponents of this budget get the impression that they never or almost never had the opportunity to take responsibility and suggest something similar. A part of his colleagues and colleagues discussed it, also sought to see the positive trends that could be read from this budget. I will repeat what I said on behalf of the club and the Committee on Local Self-Government and what we believe at the HNS Club, respecting these main objectives that are read out of the budget, but we believe that in a part of ambition, however, it should have been a little more liberal and ambitious. The fact is that structural reforms are not seen in projections either. This is still the third level of budget and the question is, how much is it possible to see certain structural reforms from the third level of budget through projections? We're aware they're necessary. However, they can also agree with colleagues who have said it is time, there is no bad and good time to launch reforms. However, we must also be aware that certain reforms that are not, and we are talking about two to three key ones and for the sustainability of the budget cannot last for a year or two days. These are processes that last a minimum of five, seven or ten years. If we take just a reform of the pension system, if we take a reform of the health system that is inevitably linked, it's a process that, with this trend of economic growth, through this kind of control of expenditure, expenditure parties, especially that part of the expenditure that the state can directly control, we just have to be aware, we have to be patient that they last. In order for both systems that are extremely necessary to reform to have sustainability elements. We could've looked at this budget, there was thinking, all that surplus that was achieved, I think it's doing about six point something billion kuna, we could've put on the other side of the public debt reduction. You got it. But what would they get then? One static which would not only manifest in 2018, but would cause such a static approach even worse, even worse projections of the nineteenth, twentieth if I didn't say, of course not contained in the budget, but for the perspective of Croatia as a whole. When I said that maybe he should have been a little more ambitious, that's mine, that's the attitude of the CNS and my personal position, I think we should have been a little more careful in the part of the public debt reduction. And that part of the funds can now be projected whether it's a billion kuna, a billion and a half plus four billion that are invested by this surplus, plus a billion and 400 that enters the direct potential investment potential of local self-government I'd like to calculate what a projection of GDP growth is. She's now a trend falling. Would GDP then grow more in these circumstances than it is in the projection for 2019, 2010? Of course we are one micro environment not only in Europe, let alone in the world and the fact is that certain reflections reflect on us even though not as carefully as possible. We could say we put everything on a public debt reduction, but the state also has certain contractual obligations that must be respected. They are visible in this budget. So there wouldn't be an increase in wages, respecting a collective contract, there wouldn't be an indexation of pensions. Then the opposition would say you didn't do anything, you didn't respect this, you didn't raise your pensions, you didn't raise your birth benefits, there's no energy restoration of public sector buildings, there's no local and regional self-government of two billion kunas, there's no decentralisation, there's nothing. I think we need first of all to be realistic, objective, and especially I would just like to comment on one segment of the ministry, the Ministry of Science and Education. I understand that colleagues and colleagues on the opposition side have persistently denied certain things, closed their eyes to facts, and I repeat. It should be not only a good look, but also a skilled third-level budget reader. I'd just like to repeat my denial and I have an obligation to increase the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education. It is the largest part of the planned growth that has gone to pay. There is no curricula reform, there is criticism of the introduction of information, there is criticism of the purchase of information equipment. Okay. Well, maybe that's not necessary. If we hadn't planned it in the budget, you said you didn't even do it. So all those negatives that were said to this part absolutely don't drink water. The fact is that education orientation has gone more towards STEM areas than those areas and more money towards those areas that are needed by the economy. The implementation of educational reform, curricula reform one part, is an integrated approach and it should not be looked unilaterally. It's very clear, so the pilot's project is moving next year. The objective is, in 2019, 2020, the latest full educational reform is moving. What's educational reform? Aren't education reform people? Who's going to implement the educational reform? Professional working groups are practically reviewing what was done, which came from public consultation. Now they don't go to certain curriculaes for revisions. I mean, we have to be real and objective. The increase from 2017 is about 4%, 3.98%. As far as it was concerned, it was mentioned that if the part that's in the equipment is taken away, which is in the infrastructure, etc. that the rest of us were practically not reading well. European scientific projects of 8.1 billion. The Ph.D. and post-doctoranado program is almost 50 million kuna. 7.1 million kunas more. Funding scientific activities increases by 8 and a half million kuna more. Croatian Foundation for Science 5 million kuna more. Funding of external associates to support art studies 10 million kuna. We forget that the state co-finances the transportation of high school students. There's 5 million kunas more. Increased separation to fund gifted students from 600,000 kuna to 2 million kuna. Library, booklets, etc., etc. That I don't read, that I don't dial. So it definitely doesn't stand what was said. And I would like all of you together who deny one start of educational reform to believe that the activities in the coming years will deny you. As far as local self-government is concerned, it's effective somewhere around 1.4 billion. According to the knowledge, these are investment assets. It means whether it's going to go into social infrastructure, into municipal infrastructure, so it's not going to go to consumption. Of course, there's no need, no need to go to consumption. It'll go to a better standard for citizens. I believe that together with European money new kindergartens, better quality municipal infrastructure, educational infrastructure will be built together with European money. As far as salary increases were concerned, there were objections that, I agree with that, and we're putting in HNS that we should move urgently with public administration reform. However, I have not heard from anyone here in the assembly that they will submit the amendment and show their amendment that it initiates to encourage those of us who are in a position to set an example of how he thinks in the budget to make an item to launch public administration reform. What's with the pay hike? So read your colleagues and colleagues why. Em is a collective contract and we are aware and it has been pointed out on committees and here in the Assembly lacks qualified people for valorisation and revaluation of projects financed from European money. Yeah. The structure in the public administration is unfavourable. We're aware of that. But believe me, it's the same process. I believe that you are all aware that you have had contacts regardless of whether from local, regional, national level that this is a process that lasts in what way could be projected through the budget? Furthermore, the indexation of pensions, of course, would all like it to be much larger. But I'm going back to that beginning about how much money, how much money we can talk about. When you settle out of the budget all those liabilities that the state has, let's call it a fixed cost, about very little money. There was also a comment that preambitiously planned revenue was 13.8 billion from European money. We must be equally aware, and I believe that we are aware because we have talked a lot about this here in the Assembly of Operational Programmes when agreed and what problems we face not only us here, especially in the ministries, especially the Ministry of Regional Development. And we are also aware that the change in operational programmes can go perhaps at this stage, but what is crucial and what is important and what is our position, should be taken urgently with the preparation of new operational programmes for us in terms of the financial perspective after 2020. Because I am afraid that we will be faced with the same problems that we are now and that the absorption of European money then will not be able to blame someone else, but we all should be able to bear part of the responsibility then if we do not prepare ourselves for a new financial period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60353	I thank my colleague Batinić. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60354	Dear colleague, we have repeatedly commented on whether, on a formal or informal level, that in certain areas, we should actually go better, we should go faster, we should do more. I'd just like to take my mind down a little bit and stay on the curricula reform. Let's open the question, did we really create a framework that we adapted to the labour market? In my opinion, this is a fundamental question, and it is a fundamental question that I would like to comment with you on for the reason that so far we have a model that produces new unemployed people where our youngsters from the study go to or a large majority of the youngsters from the study go to the Bureau of Employment. You've had a chance to hear from me that I am the attitude that we generally have in politics not only about this calls to the government, but also about previous governments, lack and determination. You've had a chance to hear from me that we need to react faster and we need to run much, much faster if we want to be competitive. Here, so if we could just help a little bit whether we really create the necessary framework for the labour market and whether we lack that necessary determination.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60355	Thank you, fellow Sponzi. My colleague Batinić's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60356	Thank you. We are a colleague of Sponza and we will talk for a long time about these topics simply because these are all processes that last. I will try to answer this question of yours based on my own experience regarding the creation of personnel for the labour market. First of all, there must be two meanings for the agreement, such as the economics and other education systems. You are aware of this and in particular you have the same experience that the education system, it is an extremely tropical system, I say again from my own experience because it took us to form a class in high school, a good city is not the founder of a high school, it is in the jurisdiction of the county, but also then it was the mayor, the current Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Štromar, for a year and a half it took us to convince the Resolute Ministry that we needed for the needs of the home industry a new department of wooden experts, I don't know which was all calling the carpenter or how already for the needs of the parent company in Ivanac. For 2 years, the total process lasted, high school, the county adjusted in seconds. The entrepreneur showed through a letter of intent, equipped the practice in high school, equipped a special maintenance workshop in his factory, now exits 4 or 5, 4 or 5 departments of finished carpenters, and for which everyone found a job in that factory. It means the Ministry, or the Resort Ministry, but it also means the economics. What's the problem, too, I believe that today would be much faster because policy is going in that direction. However, the fact is that businessmen also have to make very clear what they want, what they need.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60357	I thank my colleague Batinić. The next replica is respected Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60358	Thank you very much. Comrade Batinić, I think you've sold your favor to the rulings a little too cheap in the end. So if you were a little more persistent, if you were as determined as your colleague Demetlika says, then you could say that the Ministry of Education and Science is the winner of this budget. That's what you should have done, that was your promise. But it didn't happen. So indeed, I can even praise the numerous moves of Minister Divjak. But Minister Divjak is alone, has not received enough support from either your colleagues or Vice-President Shtromar for the Ministry's budget, science and education to be a budget which we will all be proud of. So we always really want that budget to be bigger, it's not enough. So as hard as you try to convince us that the budget is good and the minister herself said on the Education Committee that she was moderately satisfied. I guess that's the easiest grade she could say. So the numbers say everything. The budget of the Ministry of Science and Education is growing 617 million kuna, of which 477 million goes to pay. And it had to go, so it wasn't an election, it had to go like that, and every minister would have to make it based on all those decisions that were related to collective agreements. So 140 million kuna is the growth of the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education. If we look at the Department of Defense, for example. 2018, 2020 is growing 18%. As science grows, the Ministry of Science and Education 1.6%. But what is the most devastating colleague Batinić, did you look at in the budget how the education item grows for 2019 and 2020, 0.6% and 0.2%. 0.6% and 0.2% are growing in education within the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education. Well, it's for sitting down and crying, screaming.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60359	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Answer, colleague Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60360	Thank you. I will probably always be surprised, especially you and many other colleagues use words very easily. You said you sold too cheap. I mean, I can understand political rhetoric but I can't understand you. You've been Minister for many years or how long, I don't know. And I don't know if you have anything to brag about. And especially with what you're handing over now to the Minister and to us at the HNS. Well, let's let it go. Obviously you didn't listen to me when I told you about the increase in the budget, then I made it very clear how much of it was for the salary and how much the increase was that part that was real. That's one thing. Another thing, as far as projections are concerned, you know very well that education reform is carried out by people, education reform is carried out by people, and you know at what stage it is and what expert working groups are doing. The responsibility is primarily absolute to the minister, the minister has the government's support. And I'd like you to share with me a part of the optimism, as far as that goes. I believe it would be of interest to you, not only to you, but to you as an opposition, as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60361	I thank my colleague Batinić. Comrade Pernar, colleague Pernar, please, if you have certain important conversations, then step out of the plenary session, and return, do not disturb the speaker as he speaks. Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Batinich, I was, I can say I'm a disappointed optimist, so I guess I'm a pessimist class. I would sincerely like that what you said in your presentation on behalf of the club that it is true, no one happier than me and I suppose than the other representatives in this Croatian Assembly. In turn, you said that MPs, some MPs, deny the existence of certain steps in educational reform, in particular in curriculative reform. That's not true, because you can't deny something that doesn't exist. Secondly, the importance of education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been shown very clearly through the increase of the resources of all ministries compared to the 2017 plan. as shown in the proposal. So the biggest winners are the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the economy and entrepreneurship, the crafts. And the biggest losers are the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice and so on. The third by introducing information, 209 schools are equipped with computers, is not a complete curricular reform, not even one of its smallest, or small part. The orientation of education according to STEM is seen, that, by investing the center of originality in science, it is my personal view that we should invest in STEM areas but never as a society should we ignore the importance of humanistic sciences, which is what has been constantly trying to push through in Croatia lately, and this is long-term harmful to our society. You said that in 2019-2020 in the school year, complete curricular reform will be on its way to all schools, you will be denied projections for 2019 and 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60363	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice. My colleague Batinić's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60364	So that's the question, that's the question of your perception of what you've read. It doesn't have to be a good interpretation. Maybe I'm misreading it. But when I said, it's simply not true that the Ministry is, not a loser, simply all of them are winners. I'd like to not look like that, who's got more, who's got less. Because if we go linearly to look, the increase in the budget has grown, by that logic we should all be profiting. Why did some ministry get more why someone less? Well, I don't know, I'd say it's primarily an assessment of the current situation in the environment, why the Department of Defense, we're all talking about planes, why the Defense Department. Well, I mean, if I really want to be ominous, I think the defenders should primarily get what they get, correcting the injustice, but big credit for what the defenders got, we can also attribute to our government where we were together and the behavior of the diameter itself, then Milanovic. Because he created a very high-quality atmosphere and a basis for this situation. As for individual ministries, yes, trends are seen. Do you have anything against demographic politics? I don't. Not personally, because I think it is necessary to make reforms in later perspectives. Or, in order for someone in Croatia to be able to direct the budget, and not that, unfortunately, this is not the result of the emigration of these governments, these are trends back several years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60365	I thank my colleague Batinić. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60366	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, therefore, I do not wish to argue with you, for it allows the possibility that you too have good intentions, but I also defend and my own good intentions. Especially when it comes to curriculative reform. It's clear to me that in the system of science and education, 90% of the funds are already in place because our salaries are leaving. It's clear to me that what's happening now is that the shifts, but the shifts are only in the starting positions. And if we admit that, then there's a possibility that together and define the possibility that together without any resistance or conflict, we can come to the desired goal, which is modern society, is education that will be precisely for the needs of the present society. And what is said in the debate, a modern school, is not a school that is aimed only at one area, let's say, a stem area. In literature about a month ago there was a symposium, innovation, creativity, entrepreneurship in education. At that symposium, I made it clear that the school should be educated for civil society, which is to subconscious that every citizen can choose and have the right to be chosen, according to the labour market. And what's most important is that we have humanistic disciplines, which is that we have happy, satisfied individuals, because without it we will have bitter workers and bitter ministers, bitter politicians and bitter debates. As far as the stem area is concerned, I would love to, and I warned that if we decided to grant these students, that this scholarship would cover their entire education. Not just for the first three years, to expand to five years. And I think, if we agree together, that this society needs it, that we will avoid... conflicts and manage to do something with this system and society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60367	Thank you, colleague Vučetic. My colleague Batinić's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60368	What you said, I can only support. In fact, we are aware of that when we speak from vocational education, professional education 3-4 years is ongoing, so this is the process from the beginning until the end, for example 5 years. However, the same way when I said that in focus is currently a stem area, simply for the reason that the needs of the market, the needs of the economy. The fact is, I'm gonna tell social sciences there's a labour market. Of course, there must be synergy in society, and I fully agree with you. That doesn't mean ignoring a particular school area at the same time, absolutely not. Absolutely not, but we have to answer in front of us. And the fact is, when I was telling my colleague Sponzi, it took three years plus years of practice to create the kind of character that the economy needs. As far as vocational education is concerned, it is a process, in that 4 years, that entrepreneur, who signed at the very beginning of the establishment, divided, after 3 years there could have been some disturbances on the market and he could not absorb... So the fact is, our economy must be more clearly determined, and of course the economy needs educated people from the social sector, absolutely not to say lawyers, economists, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60369	Thank you very much, dear fellow Batinic. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60370	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Ministers. Here we talk all day about the draft budget, the fact that now a lot has already been said by the predecessors, but here I am going to start right now about a lot of praised eu funds. The fact that a lot is planned, a lot of things are said to be agreed, but the fact that only 3.4% of the funds are achieved in terms of the euro, the fact that the Republic of Croatia is still making more payments in the European cash register, and much less, the fact that we are investing in other countries because we obviously don't have enough qualified people to do their job that should be withdrawing funds from the eu funds. Now I'm going to talk more about regional development, and it's going to be a key issue for me, and these are banks. I would ask the minister to answer me here I have heard from his predecessor, Mr. Lalovec, who claims that the banks really take the fees and commissions of 4 billion kunas annually to our citizens. I believe that the time has come and that there was a legal proposal that the government here refused in the first reading of a legal proposal on the taxation of bank property which I think would have been fair is the fact that the huge money of the bank is taken annually by citizens, economic operators, companies, and that instead of those developmental ones holding back the development of the Republic of Croatia, I would like the minister to answer this question whether this information is correct, I'm just talking about fees and fees. Maybe the minister is funny but the fact that his predecessor repeated it or the fact that he won't tell. I'd like to talk about this story seriously if we're talking about 4 billion kuna a year on fees and fees. When we talk about two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia that are empty about it I've always talked about, it's Slavonia, it's Dalmatia almost the whole hinterland, Lika, Gorski Kotar, Straight Wheels. I've visited the Ravni kotars in Dalmatinsko Zagora 90% of villages have no conditions as they say they will bring, while these villages and places have no board of school, have no chalk, and while they bring them as they name all teams, while those working groups will have no one to bring or obviously no interest in bringing to them because empty schools, villages have remained as much as 90% of these villages here I was recently in the Ravna kotars because I repeat come from the Cetina region, a large number of these villages have no water supply. Here I was a few days ago visiting no water supply. So we're talking about a serious crisis here. about a serious demographic crisis, where people go, schools are empty, children's cries are not heard, and that's why I'm going to propose a dozen amendments. I hope that the key amendment will be accepted, which is that all children in the Republic of Croatia have free textbooks from primary schools, not just Zagreb and certain parts. This year, I proposed the same thing in Sinj and it was adopted that students have free textbooks, if they can in Zagreb, why not have in other undeveloped areas. Of course that somewhere around 350,000 elementary school students, we know that the last ten years we've lost 60 thousand children, a number of classes means that this would be one measure just. And not even that for the elections, we know that the mayor of Zagreb in Petrinje bought books as powerful as before the elections and shared a set of books with all elementary schoolers, it is a disaster. So the students must be all the same, it's constitutional law, our children are our children. I think that these social measures should even be co-financed by the state and children's kindergartens is a number of co-financed by at least 50%, since many local self-governments do not have the conditions of co-financing of kindergartens, schools, textbooks, the transportation of students, so I believe that this should be done mainly in undeveloped areas. As far as agriculture itself is concerned, essentially those areas that I have said they now serve only as exploitation fields in the case of energy, or mineral resources, i.e. the miners are only based on it, concessions are very important, islands, water and similar concessions, and the state obviously has very little. Here I'm going to say an example of the 2015 election, although it happened... I don't blame this government, the source of Cetina was rented to a concessionaire for 5,000 kuna, it's a household that has a slightly bigger garden, which the bays are paying monthly. So we have no control of the concessions at all. As far as agriculture is concerned, here's what we're going to start with cattle, no more cattle at all, farms, that's what we import, so we're importing 70% today, 80% of the dairy products we import, and this budget provides for subsidies. I believe that, I believe, I suspect that in a country where there were 64,000 dairy producers five, six years ago, and today we have 4600 while five billion kunas are invested in dairy production. So that's when we imported 30, 40% now 70% we invested five billion, and we have 60,000 fewer dairy producers. We have empty villages. I am sorry that this budget is not more ambitious, it announces a slowdown in GDP growth, they all expect in this year's current 3.2, it is at 2.9, in 2018 it is forecast 2.6, and in 2019. 2.5. So maybe it's real, but the fact that the states of others are moving much faster in our environment. The fact is, what I've said is, the most annoying thing I've ever done as an agent is undeveloped areas, and I'm sorry for not doing the projects that are important to the development of these parts, so I can count. We have made a highway to Split, literally to Metkovic, but the hinterland has no dates, no Imotski, no Vrgorac, no Vrgorački end. Here's my colleague Bačić was a minister when he opened down Ravca-Drvenik, he and Mr. Bebic, 4 meters he opened to get votes, so it's dangerous for lives but it's just made, I don't know what he did, it's mocking with the people of the top end, we don't have a date for the Imotski, and a very important road Drvenik-Ravca, so Hvar would be, faster port there, it would develop and Hercegovina, behind. So that's how the Land of Imot, Sinska krajina, Cetinska krajina, Drniška krajina, Kninska krajina. It's neat, Knin 25. 8th visit then says we are passing the Law on Defences which I supported with certain changes, of course in the first reading. However, they say it will be applied from 1.1. 2018, but we don't have enough resources, so by 2019, we'll give 10% of the funds, of course, the government didn't give it, the Croatian defenders know it, it's the Constitutional Court's solution that it was illegally downloaded those 10%, so we have a lot to say in this budget and a much simpler dictionary. Anyway, I'm sorry there's a lot of talk about curriculative reform and we don't have any more kids, but some of them are literally empty schools. I'm sorry, there's a colleague, Šipic from my Cetin area, so he can describe some villages of his own... The back of Trill and let him say how many children there are in that area, and I'll say the same in my Sinj area, literally empty schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the reaction isn't much faster, these social measures, so I think it's unimaginable that in one country where we have the same Constitution, we share children. In Zagreb, we have free textbooks, and in undeveloped areas, where people have no living conditions, so they leave, we don't have free textbooks, and that's why I, personally, will write and submit this amendment, means that all students in the Republic, primary students have the right to free textbooks and I hope that the minister will consider it, i.e. Fellow parliamentary representatives support this, ultimately, if the minister does not accept it, I hope that fellow MPs will accept it, especially those who come from underdeveloped areas, who cannot allow their students to make it easier for parents to buy textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60371	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bull. We move on to the next individual debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60372	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us and Mr. Minister. There is a question of the meaning of the debate in this important topic, in such a late hour. Is that an accident or not? If everyone is saying today that this is an important topic, why is it now being discussed? But you see, that's not by any chance, isn't this play today about sabotage of the Agrokor Research Commission's work just as projected, designed to exorcise the opposition in order to actually delay the debate on the state budget for the late hours? I think it's really done, so let the citizens now judge for themselves what it's all about. And you see how many MPs there are here in the assembly and what the quality of the debate is. But since I am a university professor and I came here to change our solutions in front of the party, I will say first that we will not support this budget because it is neither developed nor fair. I will present some of the most important arguments for the budget to support this claim. What are the most important cuts from the budget? It is for health care, the pension system, of course, for social assistance, but one separation from the state budget means in terms of expenditure, it carries 9% of all expenditures and these are public debt interest, i.e. on government debt. Mr. Vice President, are there two sessions here or one so tell me where to join? Well, I'm being distracted. I'm already being disturbed. [[Intruder Brkic: Just keep me up when they interfere then we will warn.]] I'm asking you to sit down. Here, or they'll come out. [[Invader Brkić: Here you go.]] So 9% of the state budget expenditure, gentlemen, goes to interest banks. Let's make one, two comparisons. For culture, it's about a billion and 300 million kuna, so it's 8.9 times even more, 9 times more. With an education of about 13 billion kuna and watch out for about 10.5 billion kuna for interest. So why don't you gentlemen, who so praise this state budget, why hasn't either of you drawn this item by interest paid to financial institutions first of all to banks? Well, you don't mention it. Praise all, but you do not have the strength, or you must not disappoint the creditors because they hold you in their hands. So, in order not to tell a story, I've already made a few suggestions, now I'm going to repeat it again to hear part of the public who is still awake at this time. Of the 160 billion kuna public debt that was financed, meaning the state owed about 6%, so interest is 9.6 billion kuna, for this year it could be refinanced at a double-low interest rate of 3%, that is 4.8 billion kuna. So we'd save 4.8 billion kuna. In recent days, the finance minister boasted that he had saved 700 million kunas, which is commendable, but he could save another 4 billion kunas. And for 4 billion kunas, you can do a tremendous amount. Everything in here that someone asked for could really be covered by it. In that sense, a model of public debt refinancing was to be implemented, and that is what this government will not and cannot do, it does not really want to implement because I say it has a supervisory authority, and the political authority is here in their service. We are witnessing that the expenditure of the state budget is constantly increasing, and what is most important is that citizens do not see an improvement in the quality of services because these services are used every day. There are no expected reforms, here even the ruling note that structural reforms are not seen in this budget. So do we have an example to see? So let's take the Croatian highway, so you see they're in charge, that system of about 40 billion kuna, and annual interest only on their debt is about 2 billion kuna. I repeat again, if their debt were refinanced on double-lower interest, which I can, I have shown down the road, they would be saved so the Pelješki bridge could be made after two years by saving only from the interest of refinancing. So I repeat, the Peljek Bridge could long have been made by our means, saving only on the interest that the HAC system pays. It's not just about interest, I remind all of you, and the citizens who follow us that Slovenians have half the number of miles of highways, we have about 1050, 1100, and they make almost the same income with half a mile of highways. So this system is mature for thorough restructuring, change, but we see that there are no structural reforms. Gentlemen, these are structural reforms. Your minister's out there, I don't know what he's doing, but there's no re-financing, no restructuring. What else do you say about the state budget? I said it's neither developmental nor just. In that sense, I also resort to the idea of taxing the property of banks, that's no news at all. In the EU, most countries have law, so they have a practice of taxing the assets of banks, and that is to increase the introduction of justice into the taxation system. And you see when the problem comes that some bank goes bankrupt, goes bankrupt, then they have to be saved by taxpayers. When she's growing up and everything's fine, then she doesn't have to pay anyone anything. I would also like to emphasise the following, the policy of tightening the belt is a completely missed policy. It is being preached and sought to be sacrificed by those weakest layers, workers, pensioners, young people, thus all who are in certain danger. No one here mentioned the opinion of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, they made serious comments on the concept of this state budget. He is, in my opinion, and others here debaters similar to eggs from year to year, too relying on European funds. So what it still notices is the Commission for Fiscal Policy, that there are no other sources of funding, too much relying on taxes, etc., etc. What is interesting here and should be said, these projections for 2018, 2019, 2020 were done with the assumption that GDP growth of 3%, GDP growth of 3% of Croatia puts it in a position to return only interest and I want very clearly to say, as an expert on this, that there is no growth and perspective of the future. Young people will continue to emigrate with this kind of economic policy, and that is what is bad and should be stressed. We need a growth rate of over 5%, with an economic policy which is radically different from the one so far. the overall economic policy of Croatia not only of this government but of the previous governments it consisted exclusively of fiscal policy, transferred from this house to that house and increased tax burden, the tax press primarily according to the population or the poorest layers that fill the budget because everyone who buys bread, milk, meat on 25% is paying in the state budget at all these prices. The budget shows that capital investments are falling, that's what the future is, so it's a bad situation. In 2007, in 2008, we had double capital investments in Croatia. And if I were to finish, I'd have a lot to say, it's a great delusion that the Croatian state is as far as national security is concerned since the end of the war, it's never been more endangered so far. The Croatian people of the vein, he shrugs, the state of collapses, the people are abandoned, the investments, I call on the citizens here to gather because this, this policy and this kind of commercial authority that's been putting the budget here, has no perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60373	I thank my colleague Lovrinović. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. She's not present, she's losing her right. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60374	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So here's for a little while these long-term debates today, a few more sentences. Well, I was today, and I was able to make it to Rijeka where the school I attended celebrated 390 years of existence. So 390 years of education in Rijeka, in one institution that is today truly an expense to the highest quality personnel. And what I heard from school teachers, professors and also students, that they really want Croatia to finally experience educational reform. And I think that's what we all want. And here, I call on fellow MPs, to try anyway, now that the budget is growing, it was harder until the budget has grown, to provide more funding for education and science. I also said in the debate and on the boards, so I personally don't mind getting those planes, but then, we give as much money and education. Because the planes sure as hell won't make us live any better. It won't bring us any greater quality of life. And education and science will. And fellow Members and colleagues, unfortunately, this rise in the budget for education and science in years and by projections will not ensure that we achieve any goal outlined in the strategy of education, science and technology adopted in this assembly, without any vote against, with abstentions from HDZ colleagues who claimed that there was not enough money provided for the implementation of the strategy. My colleagues, please, let me invest more money every year. Because this is the way we lay out for the Ministry of Science and Education, our share will fall. So we'll go in the descending direction. I will remind you that right now according to EUROSTAT, Croatia is in third place from below. Only Bulgaria and Romania are behind us. Croatia, according to EUROSTAT, stands out 4.5% of GDP for education, which is 494 euros. Doc, for example. Denmark stands out 7% and j3680 euros. For science, the situation is even more devastating, so you know that our goal in 2020 is to single out 2% for science. Of course it's utopia. There's no way we're gonna make this happen because we're now at 0.80. So success would be 1.4%. And colleagues and colleagues, it's impossible to achieve these percentages if our budget and projection are as outlined. So if our budget is growing, then if we want to achieve these percentages that we have drawn ourselves and at least get closer to the EU, then we need to be more ready for education and science and isolate more, and we don't do that. Of course, and that's another story and it will follow the laws that will come before us, and we need to reform the system of education and science, in order to make these money, which we put into the highest quality. The question is all we're taking out of the budget now, whether it's going in the best direction. I can't not mention health care. So, for the health budget, for the quality of our health system, it would be best not to spend that budget in 2018, Minister Kujundzic. And it would be best for all of us, and for you dear colleagues and colleagues, to find another minister. In Croatia, HDZ has many good colleagues, the age of doctors, good managers, who will certainly manage the health system better than counterpart Kujundzic does. Let him go back to the hospital, he's a good doctor, and he'll benefit our patients. So the budget that is for citizens' lives is essential both in education and in health care, it is not promising. You know that our citizens evaluate government work every month and say that 77% of citizens are unhappy with the work of the government. Every month it is done and what has affected the citizens the most. Do you think next month, when they ask, they'll even remember to bring the budget? Whether the budget will give some new momentum, the satisfaction of our citizens, not to leave Croatia, to stay in Croatia or to return to Croatia. Unfortunately, I'm afraid not. So today, we have a knowledge society, tomorrow is an innovation society. We're not in the knowledge society, and tomorrow's innovation society is some distant fog for us. So, I ask that tomorrow, not tomorrow, these days when we vote on the budget, to accept all amendments, all colleagues, come from any club that will ensure that in education and science, we allocate more money than is foreseen in this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60375	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. To be honest, it's not easy either to motivate or concentrate on these late hours of debate, but after a rebel group of protectors spent our time before noon, here I came to talk about midnight, but as a doctor, it's not hard for me, I learned to be on duty. On the other hand, it is also the order to hear the voice of us about 4 million Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I will speak first of all from that point of view, therefore, from the point of view of the budget relating to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. However, I cannot miss here, to say some objective parameters, which give a positive picture of both this budget and the government, and also about Croatia if you will. Thanks to which picture it was possible to increase certain funds for items relating to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. First of all, budget growth, but still a decrease in the budget deficit. Public debt decline, credit rating growth, therefore, are all facts, which actually say that this government is leading Croatia in a positive direction. They're arguments to those who claim otherwise. And that all in the situation when they are right in this government has come to the charge of all the sins of the structures, the previous authorities in Croatia. But none of this is happening on its own. So these are all built-in reforms, this one is built in at the end of the line if you want what this government means is political stability. We are witnessing that a few days ago Minister Maric returned from London to reprogramme some billion and 200 million euros, unfavourable interest debts nearly 5%, to 2.7% interest, and thanks to the fact that public debt financing has been reduced to over 700 million kuna per year. Now, let's see if I can actually say a few words about items that refer to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. As I said in the introduction, so beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia lives more than 3 million of our countrymen, so almost the same in the Republic of Croatia, they, besides all the merits in the past and today, each year, pay more than 8.5 billion kuna per year in Croatia, this is the National Bank's estimate that at least so much comes in cash. It is therefore over 2 billion euros that our countrymen contribute annually to our budget in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, investing in education, our compatriots, investing in supporting the preservation of their identity is investing in Croatia because these people are our best ambassadors, these people are our best promotion, so if you want and in the tourism that is here growing in recent years rapid. When we talk about institutions that care about the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, of course I could list almost all ministries but in any case I want to point out the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. And the very fact that funds are being increased stemming not only from the needs but from the good programmes created within this office and other institutions that care about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the consequence that some 8 million for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia have been increased in the budget this year. At this point, I'd like to refer to some of the information that's been heard here, and that's why I'm gonna cut short some of the things that I've been preparing. I was informed, although I was not in this hall at the time, so I did not have the opportunity to replicate that the distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash said at one point that instead of investing 8 million kunas for rebuilding schools in BiH, it would be necessary to invest in Croatia more than 2 million. That's not true. So in the data I read here, to rebuild secondary and primary schools in the Republic of Croatia is invested with 19 million in last year, the plan is increasing to 36 million this year. And the 8.5 million you're probably talking about is about funding teachers and professors from the Republic of Croatia who teach at the University of Mostar. And I, as a professor at that university, must testify to you that at least 20% of students from Croatia are studying at that university. So if we were to bear costs on the right footing, then we could just say that this funding refers to financing students from Croatia who are studying at the University of Mostar. And finally let me say a few words that don't apply to these items that concern only Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So on the items of the Ministry of Science and Education it was noted that the funds with curriculous reform, I say curriculous, not curriculative or curriculum, but curriculous, because in Croatian, the moment is not said, nor the fragment, but the fragment, and then the curiculum and curriculous reform is said. Therefore, if we talk about it, let us at least use the right concepts. And so that's the best message to suspects who actually two whether this government is going into curriculous reform, that this government is serious. On the other hand, I would also like to mention because there was also talk here about the Ministry of Health. So significant increases in funding in the items concerning the Croatian Telemedicine Institute. In fact, it is a very creative approach to help, especially rural areas and without overinvesting in health care that knowledge and expertise from the centre can actually be used in, so to speak conditionally to our rural areas or, as we often say to the province. And of course, these are all the arguments that I think this budget should all be supported because it is balanced because it is realistic and ultimately with projections for 2019 and 2020 leads Croatia in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60377	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60378	Thank you, Vice President. Ma, I had to get back to you because a completely inappropriate colleague at the beginning said that today the rebel group spent time in the Croatian Parliament. You think you're funny and this way you'll get a round of applause from a few citizens watching this assembly. So in this House there are no rebel groups dear colleagues, there are parliamentary deputies who can use all the means to express their satisfaction or their dissatisfaction with the work of the majority in the Assembly, or most of them can do so to show dissatisfaction with the work of opposition. And talking about the rebel group is actually totally unnecessary, and that's why you talk a lot about yourself. And the budget does not talk about Croatia going hard ahead but unfortunately stands in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60379	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The answer of my colleague Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60380	Well, actually, I don't see why you're complaining. If that's what you've identified yourself and you're at the end of the opposition, so it's your job to rebel against the government program, etc., I don't see at all why this qualification would be offensive to you. ... But time is wasted, of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60381	The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60382	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Honorable Representative Ljubic. Every one of us has a way of talking, but we need to listen. Well, I compared two items in the budget and compared 2 million for gifted children, and I said that I do not even dispute the funds that go to schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or for Croats outside Croatia, that it is absolutely our obligation. But I compared it to two million kunas for all the gifted kids and a little bit of a priority. Well, then someone who passed on to you obviously didn't tell you to the end or you heard what you wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60383	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. The answer of my colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60384	My colleague Taritash, I got the information I got. However, there are also gifted children in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as Croatia boasts three Croatian Nobel laureates, two of which are from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vladimir Prelog and Ivo Andric. Therefore, children in Bosnia and Herzegovina should also be supported with gifts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60385	I thank my colleague, Bozi Ljubic. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Dear colleague Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. We have a final word on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60386	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just a short sentence. Thank you all for participating in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60387	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Sir, you lost your right to debate because you weren't present at the assembly. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. I thank you all for your participation. I thank Minister Zdravko Marić for the reasons of this state budget. Tomorrow we will continue work at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peacekeeping missions in Afghanistan and Kosovo. Thank you very much. Have a nice night. Good night! SESSION Interrupted at 00:05 PM
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60388	We now move to the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and the projection for 2019 and 2020 with proposals for financial plans for extra budget users for 2018 and projection of plans for 2019 and 2020 of Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of the Banks, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. The debate is closed. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means. I stress that we will decide only on the amendments submitted in accordance with Article 38. Budget law and these are amendments 1 to 122. 25 amendments were not submitted in accordance with the law so that we will not decide on them today. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, here is Minister of Finance, the respected Zdravko Maric. Please, let's go. Minister Maric, we are starting the first amendment of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60389	The Government does not accept that amendment. We believe that the funds provided in the state budget are sufficient to implement all measures to protect the rights of national minorities. I will remind you that within the framework of the division itself, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has ensured an increase in funding to the activities of national minorities from some 8.4 million kunas, as well as to the offices, and I will also remind that the Government has adopted a strategic document called the Operational Programme for National Minorities in 2017-2020, which provides for the realization of various types of projects with its dynamics by different resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60390	It's obvious, Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60391	Dear Ministers, I believe that 20 million kunas are more important for the protection of national minorities than for the purchase of fighter planes. And here I am calling on all national minorities to support this amendment because this amendment is in their interest, so it is in the interest of Serbs, Hungarians, Italians, Roma, Bosniaks, Albanians, Czechs, Slovaks, etc., that they get these funds, and it would really shock me if they voted against giving them 20 million kuna more than they keep repeating that they are constantly threatened and that they need to be protected. And just being offered their constant thesis, I've suggested more money to protect them. And if they refuse the amendment, they'll turn out to be hypocritical, well, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60392	You're asking me to vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60393	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60394	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We now move on to amendments to the Ministry of Finance, amendment number of representatives of God Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60395	The Government does not accept that amendment. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance as the holder of activities relating to the construction of works of infrastructure Thank you very much, therefore, for not accepting the proposed amendment, the Ministry of Finance as the holder of activities relating to the construction of the infrastructure of border crossings in road transport, began at the end of 2012 with the implementation of preparatory activities to build a permanent border crossing for international traffic of road passengers Metkovic. [[Break President: Comrade Pernar, please turn the microphone off.]] During the preparation activities, good co-operation was achieved with the town of Metkovic in the process of resolving property-legislative relations. The border crossing was built by a consistent spatial planning of the city of Metković and the Dubrovnik-Neretva County spatial plan and by a consistent implementing act for construction in order to meet the basic requirements for... the location conditions and other conditions laid down by the building act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On 20 October 2017, the Ministry of Construction issued a provisional application permit and a border crossing released in work on 9 November 2017. The government of the Republic of Croatia also established an inter-resor working group to ensure the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Schengen area and to establish monitoring of work and evaluation, the application of the Schengen acquis and working groups for certain areas. The Interresor Working Group shall continuously carry out activities aimed at ensuring the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Schengen area. Regarding the problem of expected traffic jams at the exit from the Republic of Croatia, which are indicated by representatives of the city of Metkovic, an inter-resor working group has taken the view that it will be resolved within the framework of a expert task force to monitor traffic intensity at the border crossing and take measures to reroute traffic at critical times of increased traffic towards BiH, traffic towards the border crossing of Nova Sela is possible. Finally, at this point, it cannot be prejudged what the section proposal will be if the results of the monitoring of the traffic intensity indicate the need to take certain procedures in the area of the border crossings, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will provide funds and, in cooperation with the city of Metkovic, take all measures from its competence to improve the quality of life of the city's residents of Metkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60396	Proposer's testimony, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60397	Dear Minister, I am very sorry that the city's rule with Stipe Gabric Jamba has worked so well with the Ministry of Finance that I can freely say that they have betrayed the citizens of Metkovic for adopting this spatial plan that will now take away the possibility for the citizens of Metkovic that they can normally have traffic. You also need to know that when we took office in 2013 on several occasions we warned the Ministry of Finance, we sent letters to which we did not receive an answer. And in addition, the Ministry of Finance then referred us to the town of Metkovic and which they had not sent absolutely before it was also an interesting thing, so we finally needed to seek protection in the legal way. In addition, we referred to the Ministry of Finance before and after proposals and attitudes, also the citizens of Metkovic that it should be changed to match the border, the adequate border crossing and that it corresponds to the citizens of Metkovic. Don't forget that the town of Metkovic is a transit city, that the town of Metkovic before these changes you brought in had four crossings, that at this moment there are two crossings, that the Most is now literally 200 meters from the air line after these changes and that you can expect a big crowd and we have warned everything about it. I am also sorry that the current city government, where the HDZ manages, eventually allowed the border crossing to open. We gave you the opportunity to change. And I really ask you and I urge you to change it, to accept, if others can have a quality border crossing, I believe that any other city including the town of Metkovic can have it. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60398	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 3rd representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60399	The amendment is not accepted. The new, i.e. the Final Proposal of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, total income from income tax, shall be left to local self-government and administration. On this basis, of course, all aids from the state budget are abolished. We believe that in this way we not only strengthen the budgets of local self-government but make it much simpler and fairer distribution of income from income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60400	It's obvious, colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, yes, revenues will be directed at local self-government units but Vukovar and Slavonia are one of the most passive economically speaking regions. How much of that revenue will be more difficult to say. In addition, the mayor of Vukovar Ivan Penava recently abolished co-financing of the transportation of Vukovar students under, his argument was that the state no longer received assistance and that the city could no longer co-finance it. These two million would help to finance exactly that because let's project that about a million and 200 grand is needed for this concrete project. Our young people are leaving Vukovar, our young ones are leaving Croatia, Slavonia in particular, this was one measure that we could try to keep because this is a general aid, but the amendment was also intended. I call on colleagues and colleagues who care about educated, advanced Croatia, Vukovar and our Slavonian students to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60402	Let us therefore vote on an amendment that the Government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 4th, also representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60403	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60404	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's, obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60405	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I said it once already, and I will repeat, Slavonia is one of Croatia's most economically-vasted regions, and we are now adding a demographic devastation to it. The Osijek-Baranja County is ahead of us after our citizens are evicted. I think, regardless of the increased income from income tax, I don't know who's going to pay those taxes if they all leave. That's why I think it's necessary to maintain that assistance at least at last year's level. If nothing, then help your mayor who is the same HDZ, who with 11 management departments has now made 14, and at least that these salaries are financed by new HDZs who will get functions and HNS's and that more money remains for development projects and that we retain both youth and population in Osijek-Baranja County. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60406	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. So we move on to the 5th Amendment of Representatives Sinisha Hajdash-Doncic and Mark Velligay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60407	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed reduction of the SOA financial plan for the period '18-20. in that amount, it would jeopardise the regular functioning of the Agency, the settlement of contractual commitments, and would make it impossible to respond to any more complex modern challenges and new requirements in the home security system. I also note, therefore, for the problem of natural disasters, with the standard item in the state budget, of course there are budget funds, which are always targeted and intended for these occasions, and in the rebalancing of the 2017 budget, I think that you have seen all together how the Government refers to these needs, given the significant increase we have found, i.e. in the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60408	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60409	Thank you. Dear Minister, I must say I was very surprised that I didn't see in the budget this amount and 100 million kuna. The more you said, that for the rebalance of the 2017 budget, you secured exactly that amount, and we know how many of us have been hit by elementary disasters, actually backwards, for several years now. The estimated damages from the natural disasters in the latest report that we received from the State Commission, for the elemental disasters, by 2.3 billion kuna, and that will go up to more than 3 billion kuna in some estimates. So with that 100 million, we will certainly not be able to make up for it, and it is clear to everyone that this amount is not enough, nor that we can work out the basic disasters that have happened, but we need to change the system. This minimum amount, which should be provided every year in the state budget, so that at least they can compensate for some of the damages that have occurred in the past years, but also what will happen in the coming years. So we need a system change, and for that change of system, we need correct funds, 20 million kuna funds, they certainly aren't. Here, I will only say that they are in the area of Krapina Zagorje County in 2017. estimated damages of 16 million kuna. So, primarily in agricultural cultures, therefore, on crops of orchards, vineyards and other agricultural cultures. So, I'm saying, I'm surprised that it's not in the budget, and I call on all MPs to support this minimum amount that exists. Budget 2017 Let us continue this in 2018 and let us try to increase it in the coming years, because unfortunately the weather accidents are today an irrefutable fact, something that awaits us in the future and we must have that item secured in the budget. I demand that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60410	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so we go to the amendment related to the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. There is also MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, number 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60411	The amendment is not accepted. The Intergovernmental Mixed Committee on the Protection of Minorities between the Republic of Hungary reached one agreement, that in similar projects, therefore, the Masar Party financed and co-financed projects on the Hungarian side. Also, as far as Croatia is concerned, the Republic of Croatia, in this concrete project, is talking about the Pecuh National Theatre. As for the rights of the Croatian national minority, in 12 European countries, the Government takes care of them, I think that both the figures and the funds that are secured in the state budget bear witness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60412	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60413	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I can't accept this finding. I know there are agreements to be implemented. However, Croats in Hungary are a community that, in its self-organization and relationship with the country in which they live, therefore, in Hungary, can be an example to all Croat communities outside the Republic of Croatia. I think it's important to show concretely to this community, to hold on to them, that the countries of the queen greatly appreciate them and help them. The assistance they received from the Republic of Croatia is generally purely symbolic. As we fight for our countrymen in BIH and in other countries, I think we should fight for our countrymen in Hungary as well. This is the only Croatian national theatre outside the border, which I repeat, is funded exclusively by the Hungarian state. All the contribution made by the Croatian State is generally the symbolic nature or individual initiative of the City of Zagreb, etc. I think the adoption of this amendment, at least at a symbolic level, would show that we appreciate the work of these people and that we think of them. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60414	Let us approach the vote on this proposal that the government does not accept. The proposal didn't get enough of the majority, now we're going to go to the amendments to the Ministry of the Interior. First Amendment 7 of Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60415	The amendment is not accepted, as the funds are proposed to reduce budget users for the orderly functioning of these offices in the performance of their regular activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60416	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60417	Thank you very much. This summer we had a chance to watch, really scary scenes from Dalmatia, big fires and heroes fighting those fires, firemen and volunteers, citizens. We watched really scary scenes where firemen went to the fires literally in antique vehicles and fought fires in antiques, with antique equipment. We had scenes when firemen with drawers literally went into battle with fire because they didn't have any other equipment. I think it's an amount of 4 million kuna, in the position of getting new equipment and new traffic symbolically in some way. So it's not enough to settle all obligations, but it would be a step in the right direction. The more my proposal was to take it from the president's office and the president's office. Since the president has promised to save, cut the office, cut the spending, here I want to help her, but unfortunately these items we are growing. Therefore, I think it is wrong not to support this amendment, precisely because we would not testify again to the scenes we witnessed this summer, that our firefighters had nothing to deal with with with the fire. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60418	Let us approach the vote on a proposal for an amendment that the government does not accept. Thank you. The proposal didn't get enough votes. We are going to the amendments to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Amendment number 8 of Josko Klisovic's MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60419	The amendment is not accepted. We believe that the funds planned activities, trade policy and economic multilaterals amounting to 602 thousand kunas are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60420	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60421	Thank you very much for your explanation, Mr. Secretary. You can see that my amendment is in line with my question that I asked during the debate when you represented the budget and it is de facto the same as the amendment that I made last year with the fact that last year I asked for a very symbolic amount of about 50,000 kuna to just test the real will of the government to enter into the measure of these amendments that we propose because I think this amendment justifies itself. If you realize that, and we all know that exports are one of the important engines of the recovery of the Croatian economy, and that the state body supported by our exporters in international affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that there is not enough money for quality work on this segment then of course everyone would support such an amendment. You told me in your answer when you represented the budget for HGK to get more and more into that space. Yeah, but it's a professional association of entrepreneurs, companies, companies, so that's not what the government is building. What the government is building is primarily at HBOR where it is trying to finance export affairs and what it does through the Foreign Ministry, helping in a practical sense our entrepreneurs in international markets. Today I have proposed an amendment which is a slightly larger amount so that it really needs in this segment of Croatian diplomacy to do its job in quality, and this job is well accepted by the Croatian economy and in this segment we have received a really very good assessment of the Croatian economy. But you know for yourself, you run the state's finances that every activity has its own cost, it has its own amount that we have to ensure that we do it in a quality way. Now that's exactly what I'm suggesting here, I expect you'll reject it if simply no one has entered the measure of this amendment just because it was proposed by the opposition. And I'm sorry to admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60422	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Please join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. [[Intruder Klisović: Yes.]] Thank you. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We are going to Amendment 9 of Josko Klisovic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60423	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason, so the funds on economic bilateral activities amounting to 316 thousand kunas are deemed sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60424	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60425	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. So here the argument is similar to that this is about an amendment that is trying to raise the amount of funds that benefit the bilateral part of economic diplomacy. So these are the people in the embassies, including ambassadors, who, in a concrete sense, are helping our entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs carry the costs of their engagement abroad, but sometimes they also need an active engagement of Croatian diplomacy, and this engagement costs. Many countries in Europe have introduced a system where they charge from entrepreneurs certain services, we do not have that system. But that system says funds are needed for economic diplomacy activities. If we do not have a collection system from entrepreneurs, then we must have budgeted sufficient resources for economic diplomacy activities because it is the only way we show that we are serious, we show that all state bodies, that we are asking them to participate in the realisation of the most important priorities of this government, as well as the state, and that is the recovery of the Croatian economy. This is the basis of this moving everything and money for education and money for health care and money for aircraft and for minorities and everything else, so here we create a material base and therefore I think that investment in economic diplomacy through these symbolic amounts where we can increase their budget is actually an investment in the recovery of the state and in the greater activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which is often criticised that it deals only with topics far from Croatian citizens, not those directly touching Croatian citizens. This activity of the ministry in the area of economy and economic diplomacy directly affects Croatian citizens, employment of Croatian citizens, production of Croatian, GDP and, of course, higher taxes than economic activities in the Croatian state budget. And that's why I'm asking for support and voting, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60426	Let us approach the vote on the proposal of MP Josko Klisovic, whom the government does not accept. Thank you. The proposal didn't get enough votes. Now we move on to amendments to the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. The Honorable Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman will answer. The first of these amendments, number 10, is MP Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60427	The view of the government is that the amendment is not accepted. The funds in this position are intended to maintain the Ministry’s information system by means of a contract concluded for the settlement of the costs of licences, antivirus protection, the acquisition of computer equipment by means of a contract concluded on financial leave and maintenance and upgrade of existing applications. The funds at the location of the reconstruction of the rolling stock are intended for fuel consumption, the ongoing maintenance of the outdated rolling stock and the rental of the basis of the concluded contract on...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60428	The obvious Mr. Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60429	Thank you very much. I can't be satisfied with this explanation. Finally, around the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness on the Assembly Committee, I made it clear that it is unacceptable that we are going towards a reduction in the resources available to the Agency in view of other agencies of neighbouring countries which, through intensive investment in their agency, attract significantly greater investment funds in their countries. Here is just the increase in GDP that we all welcome when it goes much depends precisely on the intensity of the investments that are happening. Therefore, we cannot expect that there will be an increase in investment if we are not ready to invest precisely in the mechanisms that provide it. The amount currently foreseen is really minimal and will not ensure that in the future it contributes to our GDP. I therefore request a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60430	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Moving to Amendment number 11. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60431	The government does not accept this amendment. The funds in this position are designed to find a permanent solution to airspace protection and achieve the set objectives of protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. By the end of 2017, a decision will be taken on the possibilities and modalities of the development of capacity and the protection of airspace by obtaining multi-purpose combat aircraft. Accordingly, the proposed funds are necessary for the implementation of the above.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60432	An obvious colleague, Sincic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60433	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm not happy with this ministry explanation at all. I understand that this amendment has been rejected first of all because it is seen as to whose it is, not what it is. The amendment proposes, therefore, the transfer of money from the battleplane item to the HAMAG BICRO item. It is our position, the attitude of the Living Wall, that the strong economy contributes more to national security than several old fighter planes. It should be noted that, therefore, the European average of employees in companies so up to 9 employees is 65% of the economy in the sector. In Slovenia, 81 is a European country with the highest percentage of such entrepreneurship in Croatia. Only 36.7. Therefore, much more needs to be invested, much needs to be developed with all other things such as resolving the situation in the judiciary. Because small and medium-sized enterprises are often the only way for Croatia to get out of the crisis, to develop an economy, and statistics show that. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60434	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment number 12 of Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60435	The amendment is not accepted. According to the provisions of the HBOR Act, the core capital of HBOR amounts to 7 billion kuna and is paid by the Republic of Croatia from the state budget. By the end of 2016, €6.533 billion was paid into the founding capital of HBOR. On the basis of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 until 31 August 2017, 25 million kuna was paid and by the end of the year there is still a payment of 25 million kuna, which means that up to the total amount of 7 billion kuna left to pay another 417 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60436	It's obvious. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60437	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State yourself said 417 million will not be paid in 2018 either. The intensity of this amendment is to protect the budget funds because we saw that HDZ and Minister Maric gave Agrokor directly through the Supervisory Board last year and that these funds are largely lost to the Republic of Croatia, if not all of them. So the damage directly amounts to nearly 4 hundred million kunas through five HBOR direct loans to Agrokor where in this way HBOR became an ATM, i.e. a banknote of the pigs Agrokor and Todorovic in 2016. My intensity in this amendment is not to expose that risk to 50 million kunas that the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to pay into core capital next year until such a practice is changed that it is extremely risky for private clients to have what HBOR Mr. Maric himself has established, and you know it well. That you know well, if you didn't know before, you know now approved by HBOR after having had a risk of 8. which is not enough quality to give credit. In 2016, nearly 4 hundred million kunas were given directly, directly what did not happen earlier in the previous years until the chairman of the Supervisory Board was Zdravko Maric. And my intention was to protect itself. So, the Supervisory Board never decided this way at the time of Zoran Milanovic and this government, you know. Well, if you don't think so, you can ask Mr. President first that he doesn't soak. If he doesn't think that's what he's gonna say, and I'm gonna say it's not true. And it's my intensity to protect here budget money and to allow small entrepreneurs a larger amount of guarantees over... [[Adversity President: A fellow Maras time is up.]] Thank you very much. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60438	Comrade Maras, I beg you all stick to the time to hold on to yourself. It's two minutes time. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's not earn it, but let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now I have two hands in the air. He's my first colleague, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60439	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP representative club is looking for a 10 minute break due to the government's relationship with the Croatian Parliament, i.e. because of the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia explains the amendments to the 2018 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60440	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60441	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, we are looking for a 10-minute break just to warn of this topic, which is that the unacceptable explanation of which the Government communicates is the refusal of our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60442	He's a colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60443	Because of the suspension of freedom of speech in Croatia, I'm looking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60444	All right, break is till 12:00. It's 11:50 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] It is the first club of SDP representatives and respected colleague Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60446	I thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I am sorry that we had to ask for a break, and I am particularly sorry that we had to do this after the 12th amendment, but we of the SDP Representatives Club consider it necessary, in order to warn about the inadmissible behaviour of the members of the government, I am talking first of all about the representatives of the Ministry of Economy. Also, I would ask the other members of the government who are here to continue this session to explain the proposed amendments to the budget, not to act this way and to take seriously how this warning, the reasons why we are looking for it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Economy and none, look out for now, none of the proposed amendments from its portfolio were obvious about the items that colleagues and fellow MPs sought to raise funds. And it's not from anywhere. The respected representative of the Ministry of Economy has not been shown to have been required to raise funds in its portfolio, not to a single item requesting an increase in funds for the economy, for investments, for guarantees, for competitiveness. The ministry's representative, and thus the government of the Republic of Croatia, hid out of the form that expenditures required a reduction were necessary. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and above all respected representatives of the government, it is your duty to show yourself first of all about what the MPs are looking for. It is your obligation to be clear and to say why you believe that the funds provided in the RS budget are sufficient for certain requirements. Your task is to say for the economy we've provided enough money. We don't give extra money for investment. It's your duty to say we don't give extra money for entrepreneurship. It's your duty to say we don't give extra money as a guarantee for a small economy. Dear colleagues and colleagues, don't hide behind a plane or SOA. If you don't think there's a need to cut the money for the planes, it's your right to do so, but be clear about what the MPs are looking for. Be aware of all the demands we have made, the universities, the education, the roads. Otherwise you could have just brought General Krstičević here and said we're buying planes and points. This stops being Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to continue this debate, and you will have the opportunity to continue on 135 amendments, be honest. Let's not give up any extra money. What you MPs are asking us to do is unnecessary, useless, at the very end of the line, say it's stupid, but don't hide like you've done so far. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the government, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, be honest, that's all we ask of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60447	We are going to a second debate, the Cuban representative of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60448	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's colleague Grbin, he's actually the subject I'm going to talk about elaborated in the good work. What I would certainly warn that we had today and amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, in which the Minister of the same Government stood, who was on every amendment that we had sent and when he went to refuse him, gave the same clarification and did not say a single word that he simply did not accept but stood here and held responsibility for what he said. We had Minister Marić in this work, in which he gave the clarification as well. And then after that comes the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, who believes that this practice needs to be changed. And at the end of the day we get an answer? And we didn't get an answer to what we were asking, what we're looking for, what we think is necessary, why it's not acceptable as a proposal and in the end we only got a shrub response that the funds we've noticed, primarily here and in my proposal that they've been put out, that they've been increased compared to the execution of previous periods, that that's something that's already been defined, that's defined. Sometimes I would really say, let's say about it we want, we don't want to accept, about choices, unfortunately here we have to get to know you that a certain thing just isn't possible because it's solved one way or another. But here we have now come to a situation that we have found out why it was rejected or we have a very convincing explanation for what has been increased. All I know is that at the Department of Economy's division, there's been a reduction. Until we cut right into the division of that ministry that we want the most from. In the end, they're pulling exactly what's said, maybe if we're talking about Slavonia, Baranja, Sremu, out of the area where I come from, one day when the plane lands there, then we'll get those funds. It seems to be the only way for certain people to come. It is no wonder that we all tried to find the funds precisely in that division where we believe there was an increase to the damages of a certain second item but it is also no wonder when they send MPs, demand an increase in the economy, agriculture or any other sector, and on behalf of that they seek a reduction in the division of the Ministry of Defence on aircraft. Because knowing that the need for space protection can certainly be achieved in smaller amounts than planned, because we see that the options are numerous. But those options we have at the Ministry of Economy, which, by their activities, can increase and accelerate and reach development, are few. And we're talking about a couple of million, or we're talking about a couple of tens that when they're deployed to our little businessmen, then they become really small funds. And because of that, we can neither accept nor accept, and we will every time in the administration of this provocation, that no answer is given, and that we cannot communicate later or defend our amendments that we give, because we do not know or respond. All we know is that it's not accepted, but we don't know for what reason, and what's it gonna be one day if these amounts come from one rebalancing or some new budget from the same ministry and they increase, what will they comment on? Then he'll say he won't give you an answer. We think it's a good thing. Then we'll stay on that communication, we won't say anything, we'll just say, we refuse and we'll say vote. But that's certainly not what the citizens expect from this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60449	And the final debate is the Living Wall and SNAG's Club of Representatives, the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60450	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am appalled by yesterday's verdict, under which I must pay Alexander Stankovic, head of HRT 50,000 kn for insulting the honor of his mental suffering, etc. Namely, what it's about. If there's one person on the political scene, who's systematically insulted, demeaning, and being given various epithets, you know everyone that's involved. They call me a clown, a fool, a rickety, there's another 50 insults, a brush, a Yugoslav, it's hard to count. They come not only from journalists, but from so-called. the scientific community. So, bringing in a psychiatrist, here's a shrink named Yukic, what do you think of Pernar and then he says, so I think he has a need to meet his narcissistic needs, etc. What's this about? In our society, we agreed to have freedom of speech, and I agree with that. And whoever I am, here on Facebook comes to me all the time, where people insult me, tell me I'm a piece of shit, garbage, etc. I don't have a problem with people insulting me because I believe in freedom of speech. I've never sued or reported anyone. I'm telling you honestly. And keep an eye out, press, what do they think? They think we can muddle anyone. So we can tell you whatever we want. And I say okay, write whatever you want. But what happens? It happens that when you fight back one of these journalists, Alexander Stankovic, and tell him what you think of him, his character and his part, then he sues you. So, try to imagine it, as if I'm there alone, you 50 from HDZ every day is some epithet, and I one of you fight back, if he sues me, it's my pity mental pain, this and gets 50,000 kn fines. I think that's the verdict, funny, sad, and here's why. Because of us, they don't say other people's words and other people's deeds, but our own words and our own deeds. I can't believe the court in Croatia believes that honor can be paid for, compensated, I don't know what. And one more thing. In this country, the verdicts against all of you in HDZ have fallen. You all know that. It was looking for a hole, like, it was all going away. The Bear dog and I are doomed. Convicted Juanito Luksetic. So the simple thing that happens, those of us who are similar to the authorities, can be shoeed in the media, and if they fight back, the dragon's fine. What kind of joke is that? You're not fair, you're not playing fair play, and it's gonna come back on your head. It'll come back to you, ladies and gentlemen, because you're hypocrites. Because these journalists who insult me and attack me, who the Free Prospero Novak, don't do it on their own, have already given them a directive. They're systematically manipulating HRT. Yesterday when there were questions about the Hague verdict, what did HRT journalist say? She said she was the only one who supported the verdict. The opinion is... Why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because HRT deliberately cut a part of my statement out of which, then out of context, a false conclusion is drawn. So is this a public television job? That in this way it manipulates the public and actually creates hate. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, HRT creates hate, HRT manipulates, HRT is one great evil, and I call upon this country's citizens to refuse to pay the HRT subscription, that is, to cancel it. To say they don't have a receiver and they don't pay that tax on fools anymore. Because what public television does and the way our judiciary works and the way the whole state is run is disastrous and shameful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60451	We're moving on with our work. Now there are amendments concerning the Ministry of Culture. We have Secretary of State Cresso Partl with us. Amendment number 13 of MPs Damir Tomic and Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60452	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of the programme in culture. Reported programmes shall consider and evaluate the Councils for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. If the programme of lighting of the student cathedral is declared to be a competition, it will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60453	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60454	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow's government meeting in Osijek is signifying that after the budget you want to send a message Croatia is growing in Slavonia. It's not going to work out for you, you should've come before the budget, arranged some things, listened to Slavons, listened to those who were leaving. This budget is certainly not developmental, is not aimed at keeping young people in Slavonia. I'm sure the only solution would be a whole new budget, I'm sure the only solution would be a brand-new government. You had only one amendment to your ministry. You could have helped, you had plenty of time to come to Djakovo and see what was going on there. You could see that a new square had been built where the previous city government had irrevocably borrowed and probably put a pile of money in its pockets. You could at least send a little picture that you cared about Slavonia's heart, not just excuses why you couldn't do something because it wasn't a competition. There's a million things in this budget that they didn't, for which the funds were allocated and they didn't go through any contests. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60455	Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. Let's move on. Ministry of Agriculture. With us is Secretary of State, dear Tugomir Majdak. Amendment number 14. MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60456	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. As part of the budget plan of the Ministry of Agriculture, funds are regularly provided in the budgetary position of State Ergela Đakovo and Lipik in order to equip the centre and purchase of the machinery necessary for the operation of the ergele, the Ministry of Agriculture provided additional 2 million kunas to the original budget plan for 2017 by amending and supplementing the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60457	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60458	I will remind this esteemed House and all our fellow citizens, all our citizens, all our Croats, Croats and citizens how often we like to say it. This government, the predecessor of this government in its term of office, which ended in 2011. She transferred the seat to Lipik to the state's Ergela Djakovo. The injustice done to Slavonia was then corrected in the term of office of 2011/2015. And you, sir, have given about 800,000 kuna less in both the previous HDZ government and this HDZ government. What you're saying is simply not true, it's not true. You didn't start any projects there. You stopped the development there. You're asking us to believe you have a project called Slavonia. And where you can show a little bit that you're telling the truth, you're fooling all the citizens of Slavonia. What kind of message did you send now? You sent a message that we want the same development of Croatia. We want tourism in both Slavonia and the only opportunity to truly show it in the heart of Slavonia. This is a state ergel that is there the pride of all Slavons, to give those 800 thousand kunas simply to equalize with what people have received in 2015. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60459	Let's vote on an amendment for which the government has not given its support. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to the amendment number 15 of MPs Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60460	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is identical to that of the previous amendment, adding that the Ministry of Agriculture at the budgetary position of the administration and management provided an amount of 31,692 thousand kuna based on realistic projection estimates for 2018, taking into account the instructions of the Ministry of Finance for rational management and planning of material expenditure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60461	The obvious, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60462	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the very program adopted by the new Head of State, Djakovo and Lipika. It actually defined what they want to accomplish. So the people you've set up, they've defined the plan. What is crucial is that they said they want to improve the breeding selection programme, they want the whole production of livestock from their own sources, and the introduction of a wider range of tourist services. The key problem has been cited, meaning lack of own food for 150 horses, where financial resources are spent on purchase, and have the opportunity to produce at 320 hectares. If they don't secure enough resources, then they definitely won't be able to achieve their plan. How you're going to evaluate exactly the people you put there yourself. On the other hand, the entire policy here is also the Agricultural Land Act, which is based on those who have cattle to ensure their country's sufficient capacity to create food for the exactly stock they have. So we have two opposing logics in the ministry itself. So if you don't think that the funds need to be enough to make their own production, then I don't see how you're going to communicate that someone else should produce alone and make the same products from their own production. We consider it necessary and necessary to ensure sufficient resources to stabilise the business of the ergel and to be proud of all of us. We're looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60463	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Before we move to the 16th Amendment, just information that we're going to be working now until two o'clock 14 o'clock and 15 minutes, and then we're going to take a break by 3:00, so that'll be your lunch time. So we're working until 14.15 and we'll continue after 45 minutes off at 15.00 hours. We are now going to amendment number 16 of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60464	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment requiring an additional 800,000 for the first phase of the construction of the Delnica market is rejected for the reason that a depth analysis of the operations of all majors in the Republic of Croatia in which the Republic of Croatia has shares is under way and the final examination of the results of the analysis will decide in which direction the financing of further work will be organised. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture funds for expenditure employed in administrative and management activities planned in accordance with real projections, current employees and subsistence staff and according to the State Service’s 2018 admission plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60465	Dear MPs, here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60466	So, in Croatia, such a rich area that lives so poor and we are actually aware of everything that is happening in both white plagues and people who are extremely hard to live on in Gorski Kotar for what has been warned for decades, not just what is happening in Slavonia. The town of Delnice has no markets, there to be a market day closing two streets and on Thursdays everything these people need is sold there, all the other days are bought in Lidl, Konzum, etc. So, I wanted to show a small step with these 80,000 kunas for the first phase of the market in Shares because they don't have time to wait for all of your studies that you've had all this time in the last decades, they don't have time to wait to secure the first market phase of the Shares and to show that we want to improve the quality of life because we cut them off like the Republic of Croatia in a lot of ways. So, the Gorski Kotar, Delnice and all these cities deserve special attention and all these amendments today that are aimed at that end, please support them. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60467	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so we will go to Amendment 17 of MPs Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60468	The amendment is not accepted. In the framework of the 2018 budget plan, the Ministry of Agriculture has provided funding with projections for 2019 and 2020 and activated a new budgetary position related to the prevention and reduction of food waste and food donation. For the start of the planned funds for the production of food-related studies, the ministry will provide additional resources in accordance with further planned activities within the limits allocated over the year for the establishment of a food donation system. Furthermore, the Ministry of Agriculture is soon to refer to the e-consultation procedure of the draft Agriculture Act, in which food donations are proposed to extend the range of potential end recipients, and which better regulate the area of food donation. Ministry of Agriculture funds for staff expenditure on administration activities and management planned in accordance with the real projections of current staff staff, subsistence staff and according to the State service plan for 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60469	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60470	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, precisely the topic we have opened here, certainly doesn't deserve just 100,000 kuna regardless of the study that should be done after these years, in which a lot of talk about the food problem that is being thrown, which could benefit the numerous primarily social, humanitarian organisations in this way, will wait for the study. What really bothered me more is this projection where it shows that there are 100,000 kunas left over in the following years. If we're really going to change something with 100,000 kunas in the food donation system, I think we should be there at least in our vision, in future time clearer and show the direction that we're going to support it. I'd just say that, for example. You took the agricultural chamber, there you are the current grant that was at the level of 2 million kuna you dropped to 300,000 kuna and to 0 in projections and the law was not passed, so I wonder why you're already predicting that membership will be introduced to agricultural economies and you plan to do so in future times, and here you plan to donate food, that you will engage funds, that you will have a new law, and unfortunately you don't invest anything in it. Please vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60471	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed, so let's go to Amendment 18 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60472	The amendment is not accepted. The budgetary position of the event organisation shall provide funds for the organisation of events in the area of agriculture and rural development. In accordance with future calls for public calls to support the organisers of events to be held in the following year, the Ministry of Agriculture will provide funds within the limits allocated for the 2018 budget plan as provided for in the current 2017. In the framework of the budgetary position, I repeat once again from the administration and the management of the funds... staff costs are planned in accordance with the real cost projections for the next period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60473	Thank you, here's one more time to express our dissatisfaction. It was this item of all previous years and in the previous government that a number of organizers of small, local events were able to report the event. The funds were always modest, for a few thousand kunas were obtained, but they were very important. How many of those who have received these funds have managed to organize with some local funds, with the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture. We had $2.3 million a year. This year, you've increased your rebalancing rate to 5 million kuna. And I welcome that. Of course, it's bigger than it's ever been before, and it's probably gonna come up with a number and report only here, it's a little late in the year, so maybe it's gonna be a problem. Next year, you're shrinking drastically again. What you're not only reducing, I'd have warned here and about the form of a reduction. It happens that on a public call that you're going to publish there will be only a million and 200 000 kunas, so there will be no 2.5 million, there will be no 3.5 million or 5 such as now, but you've been able to overturn that 300 000 kunas you've put on services that haven't been so far, that you've put 500 000 kunas into aid within the general budget, which so far has not been available to the applicants, then you've put 300,000 kunas between the budget users of the same budget. All that stuff he's saying? You're reducing the ability to log in. Do you think a million and 200 thousand kuna will be enough for those who want to apply? I'm sure it won't be. So you have, this year you're showing 5 million kunas, and you're going to brag and wave and there's a million and 200 waiting for us a year. Unproportional. Please vote here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60474	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed, so let's go to Amendment No. The 19th Representative, God of Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60475	The amendment is not accepted. With regard to competence centres and in the framework of the Competitiveness and Cohesion Operational Programme 2014-2020, the European Regional Development Fund shall be co-financed by a tender for, support for, development of the Competence Centre. According to information available to the Ministry of Agriculture, a limited call is currently open for the delivery of project proposals for those projects that passed the pre-election phase, and among them is the project of the Centre of Competence for Agroms in the Neretva Valley of the Carrier in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The amendment shall be rejected in accordance with the rules on avoidance of double funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60476	Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60477	I am very sorry that we are not all equal, so I support the decision that Virovitica will receive such a centre of competence and funding for development and for agriculture, but it is simply not correct for me, although Minister Tolusic comes from this region, it is not correct to get only Virovitica, not get other parts, not even the Neretva Valley. So the agrume centre may be one of the most important things in the Neretva Valley, since several hundred families live off the production of Mandarins along with other varieties of agrum. You're refusing at this point, yet you're making an inequality. You approve directly of Virovitica and I know that other parts of Croatia have asked for the same thing, you have not given anyone else, you have given only Virovits. I don't want to believe it's because I'm going to repeat what Minister Tolusic is coming from that area. But take care when you approve of someone to approve the others. The others should live as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60478	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed, so let's go to that number. 20 MPs Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60479	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason. Therefore, the amendment is rejected in accordance with the rules on avoidance of double funding. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture is planned for expenditures of employee activity administration and management, in accordance with the real projections of current employees and subsistence staff and according to the State Service admission plan by 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60480	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60481	Secretary of State, let's get back to the subject. The theme is that the Minister of Agriculture directly allocated funds to the only centre that is located, in fact to one single centre in Croatia and right in the area of its county. I don't know if the minister thinks we're accusing his county of getting something. No, we're just asking you to be transparent, 10 million kunas, so 5 million kunas you only assigned to one single center. Everyone else. I'm asking you, did you give anyone a chance to sign up? Is there any center in any other county that can be reported or is this one so advanced, so good that it's the only one that has been provided with the funds? Is it a problem to secure another 5 million kuna? So give at least one more to have the opportunity to answer on a real public call so that after that we can defend exactly that minister's position. This way, his county will applaud him, tomorrow you will come, tomorrow he will be a member of the government in Osijek. What will you say in Osijek-Baranja County? Did you secure their center? When you get to Vukovar, will you say that in my county you've secured for a center or we'll simply listen here again to what we've been talking about and now you're turning the thesis. What was taken from the administration and management, restrictions, the Ministry of Finance, it's also clear to you, you can always get away with it. However, we did not get an answer here in which way the Ministry of Agriculture allocates funds, whether it grants only to its own, whether it assigns only to Virovitica-Podravna County or it is clear, transparent. I'll be surprised by all these MPs here they'll refuse this amendment and thus you'll actually confirm that you want only one county to get. Well done to those who come from the area of that county, they should vote, fight for themselves. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60482	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed, so let's move on. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60483	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I demand a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists to disrespect parliamentary deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60484	Please explain what this is about first. I don't know who he doesn't respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60485	Well, I don't know if I've talked here, me and my colleague Grbin whether we talked to the government representatives or if they want to, maybe they haven't heard. Let's do it again. So if we're asking a question with our amendments, we want an answer not to be asked for an excuse in something ten. We didn't get a response from the government representatives either me or my colleague Petrov why it was assigned exclusively to Virovits County.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60486	Comrade Panenic, this is your interpretation. So I can't accept this because the government's representative is responding in the way he thinks it's necessary to respond. The citizens are watching and they will assess whether it's good or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60487	I asked for a break. Do you allow a break or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60488	Comrade Panenić, I announced that we will have a break at 14.15, so we already had Wait a minute, wait a minute. [[Upadica Panenić: The fact that someone will go to the bathroom will not change the position of the Minister of Agriculture, who assigns his...]] I'm asking you, I can't allow breaks, we're voting here on the budget, every 15 minutes for the reasons you've stated. So please, by 2.15 we vote here and you can make a press conference, you can do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60489	I'd just ask if it's in the rule book somewhere if it hasn't shown up which agent to look for in the Rules of Procedure. So you yourself asked for a break because there weren't a couple of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60490	Comrade Panenic, the president of the Parliament can interrupt the session when he wants to continue it and when he wants to, but that's what I.../The speakers say at the same time./... that we couldn't secure it at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60491	I mean it's insulting all of us together here. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60492	Comrade Simic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60493	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. You have injured Articles 248 and 249. The Rules of Procedure which clearly determines how the break is sought and when the President of the Parliament, or chair of the session, will approve. So look at these articles and you have an obligation to take a break from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60494	Col. Simic, therefore, is the fact that the Rules of Procedure say the chairman will approve the party, he does not say when. The practice differs mostly from me and chairing very soon after the break was requested. This Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, did not specify this situation. What I'm asking you now, which I've done before because I don't have any other mechanism at this point, I don't want to do scenes here again, and I don't think they're necessary. The stand requested by counterpart Panenic is one of his explanations of dissatisfaction with the government's representatives and it is not the reason why we would now be interrupted by the assembly session. But I'm gonna give you a break now and I'm gonna ask everyone to stop looking for breaks so we can work normally because we're voting on the basic document today, and that's the budget. This really won't make much sense because this is how we can work for five days, but according to the Rules of Procedure, that's how I have to do it. Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60495	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Since a break has already been sought, I am also looking for a break on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA to discuss banking business in the Republic of Croatia, and about the law to be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60496	My people, I'll give you a break, but this is completely contrary to the meaning of this Rules of Procedure. We can't have a debate then, because every five minutes someone can ask for a break. I'm asking you now to approve this one, but then we'll keep working and I'll only give breaks in some exceptional situations when something happened that deserves that moment to react. This way every five minutes doesn't make any sense. So now we're going to take a 45-minute break instead of the one we announced, and then we're going to keep working afterwards. We're continuing at 13.20 and I'm asking you all to be here at 13.20. It's 12.40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13,20 HOURS]] Dear fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60498	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I will at first apologize to all the representatives of the government, who came here with real intention, good intention to explain the part relating to the amendments, where some MPs believe that they should be completed. And so is the part that is proposed to reduce resources, and to show that it's something they're thinking about. However, when we come to a case like this, all of you who have paid attention to the division of the Ministry of Agriculture, in which the one and only item is just standing. Where 5 million kuna is provided for a single centre and precisely to happen in the county from which the Minister of Agriculture comes. I thought we had ministers who are ministers of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Yes, the Minister of Agriculture is the Minister of All Agricultural Producers of the Republic of Croatia and it turns out that we only have one make-up. And in reality, not only is 5 million kuna secured to be a center there, but it's also provided for the employment of people, provided for its material assets and everything else that goes, because we wouldn't all want it. Because not all of us would like to have a minister who will bring in both this county and this one, therefore, the government would probably have to have, in that way, if it pleases everyone, at least a couple of hundred ministers, so everyone would have a particular project to run. But I'm saying, I'm not taking the right of any citizen of Virovitica Podravna County, they're fighting for what they think would be best for them. The situation in Virovitica County is difficult, but it's also difficult in all the other counties we're looking for, just to have the same treatment. Well, we went out on our own to be, I don't know, the center of this drug agency, so we called, so there was a public call, so we were a little unhappy that maybe we weren't chosen. But because it wouldn't be fair here, if someone had said, let's start a new center, we're looking for which county, which city, municipality or any other area would want to host. Whoever offers, what gets it, I think that's how we should treat it, because this is my guess again. How many times have we called the key people in politics to please certain groups? Here I can't say that there is a personal advantage, but surely that the area that is also crying out for centres, which can help develop their agricultural production, would want to be in this. We watched last year and rejoiced when the Pannonian Tree Centre, which was founded in Virovitica County, applied to the EU fund, received funds, providing its own resources for all, each county has such a centre. My county has the same center, too, but it seems that my mayor is neither capable nor influential nor perhaps trying to establish his right. It wouldn't have happened if the other mayors had said hello to the people, but why didn't we get the right. And then why can't we get information from the secretary of state here, we can't actually get information from his minister, why was Virovitica chosen? Why aren't they secure, we're just looking for additional funds for another area. Is 10 million or 5 million kuna extra too? Well, I would only do that to justify my decision if I weren't just for one county, but for another. And no one would say "A." And then after we warned, that the representative, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Economy, was not worthy to explain it. Here's what we're saying. Me and the representative of the SDP Club, and in the end, we get back in the situation, there's no answer. There's no answer for that, which is hard to answer and it's hard to explain. But the easiest way is to explain to those who will vote against this amendment because it seems clear to them. To me and my colleagues who are looking for a change and we're looking for a real clarification, it's absolutely not clear, what's only clear is that we see again elements that don't match that are eligible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60499	The second debate of the Live Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60500	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I've been explaining all year, what's wrong with banking business. Banks in Croatia make enormous profits. And one reason is that they charge illegal interest rates in all loans agreed before 31.12.2012. This was found in a court ruling in the Francak collective case, when it was declared and unequivocal that banks agreed on an illegal way to change the interest rate by decision of the bank and that they should no longer behave accordingly. Banks did not stop acting that way, however, at the end of 2013. re-defined the voluntary parameters for the change in interest rates in all loans where these parameters were not agreed and thus they were defined legally and in such a way as to take interest rates, which were found to be increased compared to those initially agreed interest rates, and by collective judgment, the only interest rate that is valid is the initially agreed interest rate, until the parameters are agreed on to change the interest rate. In a whole series of talks with Minister Maric, however, we have tried to find a solution, but we have not been able to come up with some bill together, and then in cooperation with my experts at Franak and SNAGA, I have prepared a legal solution that would make interest rates in all credits in which they are not correctly agreed in a way that must be defined in a way that consists of an initial fixed part of the interest rate and variable parameter. The initial fixed interest rate is that part of the interest rate as it would be if the interest rate were correctly agreed at the beginning of the contractual relationship. This is in accordance with Roman law in accordance with the rules on the integrity and unfairness of certain contractual provisions where, if a contractual provision is unfair, we must determine it in a way that we take the conditions applicable at the beginning of the legal work, so at the time of the contract. I asked for an individual vote for the law to see the public sees MPs and MPs thinking about the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. Since I am not going to achieve anything with this, I will give up the individual vote, but in the meantime I spoke to counterpart Bacic, I spoke to Minister Maric and asked them to reconsider the law, to try again to find some power to allow the law to go to the second round. I have said in public that I am ready for everything the Government has written that it disagrees and that it is necessary to carry out in action such as asking the European Central Bank for an assessment of the impact of the regulations, retroactively I said in a public debate that I am giving up retroactiveness. Between the two readings, the government can do what I didn't do because I don't have to do it as an agent. So here is the last time I appeal to you before the vote on Minister Maric, I appeal to you from my colleagues and HDZ representatives to allow the law to enter the second round and, between the two readings, we together find compromise solutions between our professional associates and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and finally stop the illegal business of Croatian banks in the part concerning the settlement of interest rates in loans agreed before 31 December 2012 because indeed, if we do not do so then we support the crime that Croatian banks are carrying out today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60501	Thank you. Here's what we've been through, and after the break, we've had a debate. We are now moving on to the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, Secretary of State Nikola Klaic. Amendment 21 to the Honored Representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60502	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to the MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. Funds for co-financing of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem are provided under programme 2902 Development of assisted areas and 2901 Regional competitiveness and urban development, activity K758044 Regional Development Fund, then K680040 Fund for co-financing of eu projects and K680034 Operational Programme competitiveness and cohesion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60503	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60504	Respected secretary of state. Of course, we can always show sources of funding that will be intended for an area. What concerns me so far, means all the projects that you have stated have been implemented under the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, actually had a source in a public call published practically in the field of the entire Republic of Croatia. What I am here and we have seen in the materials that have been reported by the projects that have been approved during the government of Zoran Milanovic and you have placed them. So what has been approved through European programmes is definitely not the Slavonia project, we have to agree. What is a program for local community development comes from those 1.5% that all cities and municipalities have developed and you will re-publish an invitation that will have the same conditions for all. By now we've had this year, everyone could have signed up. Not the same assisted area, not the same area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. Give me one criterion that only someone in the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema had an advantage? You gave one project, did you mention in one call that those projects you report come from that area 1, 2, 3, 5 or 10 points in the name of what they are from that particular area. Calling for the assisted area, the assisted area is both with Mira Bulj and with many other colleagues here, but it is not the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. It was just provocative but just to show that you want to separate exclusively funds for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. I hope that in what you've listed that when a public call is made that will write for applicants from that area that I can get the funds. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60505	Let's vote on an amendment that has no government support. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. Let's go to Amendment number 22 of the respected colleagues Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60506	The amendment is not accepted. On the basis of the reasons, the following resources for development are supported areas relating to small capital projects other than the position K54911 The development of assisted areas of 50 million kuna in a significant part is also ensured at the position of the K758044 Regional Development Fund, which is planned for a total of 90 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60507	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60508	Dear Secretary of State. Well, here I am sorry that there has been a reduction in this item compared to 2017 because it is primarily about capital projects in assisted areas of local units that have extremely low fiscal capacity, and we all know they have invested a lot in the project documentation for the rural development programme where the truth is reported, but we have been waiting for some measures, the results for more than a year. So this is a chance to still support these small local units, to arrange some perhaps unclassified road, adapt the space of kindergarten, office a path or so, which can improve life over those areas. It is not simply a good message that we are reducing assisted areas, I welcome that, of course, it has been raised and for the Regional Development Fund, but I consider this item, we have not proposed much, we have spent an increase of only 10 million kuna and I believe that this could be found in this proposal of the state budget. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60509	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't support. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to Amendment 23 of Representative Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60510	The amendment is not accepted. Reason, the project of the tourist valorisation of the fortress of St. Nicholas has been reported for the preparation and implementation of integrated and development programmes based on the restoration of cultural heritage. The funds have been allocated to this project for the production of project documentation. The eligible costs are 2,605,814 kuna from which 2,058.332 kuna is secured from the European Regional Development Fund. The contract was signed on 5 October 2017 and lasts until 18 February 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60511	Since there are no fellow Vidovics, then let us vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now moving on to amendments addressed to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure, with us Minister Oleg Butkovic. The first in line is Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60512	The amendment is not accepted. Based on the new organisation of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, technical affairs as well as coordination and activities of maritime universities, in connection with the use of the school ship of the Queen of the Sea by students and students have passed over the competences of the Management of the Security of Navigation. The navigation security administration, along with 12 port captains, is using four ships, 34 boats and 10 boats to carry out operations under its jurisdiction. The funds needed to cover the annual costs of all these water facilities are planned in the division 0.65 of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the activities of A57 0017 safety of navigation. As part of this activity since 2018, funds are also planned to cover the costs of maintenance and management of the school ship, the queen of the sea. We are also introducing what has not so far been the case of the A754057 equipment of high school maritime universities with mandatory equipment in accordance with the provisions of the SCTV Convention of 3 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60513	It's obvious, my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60514	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I insist on this amendment, however, because what you have said is less than what you said in the previous years on this item, but I am using this opportunity to point out once again the problem of Naval School in Bakru, where you have expressed your willingness to solve this problem, I thank you, but I am using this opportunity to remind you of this as well as the Ministry of Science and Education, because it is known that the Maritime School in Bakru is the oldest vocational school in Croatia which has had a school ship since 1894 and since 1973, the school ship Villa Velebit 2 for which the Ministry of Science has not approved the continuation of one salary payment for the captain of the ship, which has led to the question of the full existence of this very high-quality training of the students of the Maritime School in Bakru. Therefore, I believe that the funds needed for the quality education of our sailors must be increased rather than reduced, and therefore I ask you to keep your promise that is important for the continuation of the funding of Villa Velebit 2 as of course and for the Queen must be a very good way of training for our sailors who are recognizable throughout the world, but from that very point forward, I ask that we vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60515	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to the 25th Amendment of Representative Frank Vidovic and Representative Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60516	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the construction and maintenance of state roads are planned under the financial plan of the Croatian roads d.o.o. as an out-of- budget beneficiary of the state budget. A road safety analysis has been made on the Guide bypass according to... a methodology that has been demonstrated that the road fully meets all the statutory requirements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in cooperation with the Faculty of Transport Sciences, Croatian Roads has developed a transport elaborat of further increasing road safety with the proposed measures that will affect drivers in terms of reducing traffic, reducing speed and reducing the consequences of possible traffic accidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60517	Obviously, here's your colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60518	The road we're talking about is a tour of the town of Vodice, which was built in the length of 5 100 meters and its price was about 70 million kuna. Since then, therefore, she was released in May I think this year into traffic and since then there have been more car accidents on her, unfortunately and tragic consequences. We're not just gonna count the material damage, but there were lost lives. After the studies you're talking about, so in October this year, there was a car accident where human life was lost again. I don't think it's enough to make studies and get rid of that road. She's just who she is, dangerous to drive. And I've been through it more than once, I live down there, and that road is just dangerous for any ride. Traffic mitigation measures and the like will not affect improving its flow and it is designed as a road that should be flowing as a tour of the city of Vodice at the end of the day. I don't think you're going to get the effect with that, and I'm sorry you turned down this amendment. I'm looking for a vote on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60519	Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes, so we're going to go to Amendment 26 of Representative Frank Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60520	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the construction and maintenance of state roads are planned under the Croatian Roads Financial Plan as an extra-profit beneficiary of the state budget. The publication of competitions for road network eligibility studies in the city of Sibenik is under way. The objective study is to carry out an analysis of the existing state of the entire road network, and to make suggestions for improvement in the city of Sibenik. Afterwards, it will start following the completion of the study in the realization of all critical points and of all major projects in the city of Sibenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60521	Appreciation of fellow Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60522	Thank you, Mr. President. So this is the amendment I've been repeating since last year, and in Sibenik, people have been repeating it for years. It is the knot of Ražina and it is that this knot is practically not only in the summer months but during the winter it represents more and more narrow throat. It was partly solved as a knot, another part as a traffic crossing and it was a very bad solution. It affects traffic safety, affects traffic congestion, and in addition, there were several traffic accidents, perhaps half a mile away, caused by congestion on that knot. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60523	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes, so let's get to Amendment 27 of the same MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60524	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for building and maintaining state roads are planned under the Croatian Roads' financial plan. It means the same explanation as in the last amendment. The publication of competitions for the study of the justification of the road network in the city of Sibenik is under way. The objective study is to carry out an analysis of the existing state of the entire road network, and to make suggestions for improvement in the city of Sibenik. It is also in the design of an environmental protection laboratory for Njivice, Rokić and Mandalin knots.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60525	Appreciation of fellow Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60526	I'm a little bit tired of telling the same story. Also, the amendment last year has been the same amendment for many years. It's about getting off the highway to the Dubrava knot. It would also improve the flow of road network at the entrances of the town of Sibenik from the highway exits. This government obviously has no hearing about it. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60527	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. We are now moving on to the amendments of the IDS and LRI Club. There's seven of them. The first one's number 28. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60528	The amendment is not accepted. The port administration of Poreč was founded by the Istrian County to manage the ports of local and county importance. For construction and infrastructure projects in such ports within the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the insurance of activities A570219 rehabilitation and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in public transport ports of county and local importance, as well as modernisation, reconstruction and construction of fishing infrastructure. Capital donations amounting to HRK 60 million to be made to projects applying to the Ministry's call and being evaluated according to established criteria. Through this procedure, we also expect the Porec Port Authority to run an amendment to the proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60529	Observation of fellow Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60530	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, we have submitted several amendments relating to the financing of the construction of port infrastructure in Istria and let me try to make a comprehensive statement on this first amendment, which is why we proposed it, and then we will normally explain each and every single more detail. So, we are witnessing that behind us a truly high-quality season, a tourist year, that a significant portion of tourism revenues not only came through VAT into the state budget and the position of our club is that one part of such funds should be returned to the very environment where the money was created, that is, where the value added and created. On the other hand, we hold that by investing in port infrastructure, we can contribute significantly to the development of tourism, but especially fishing, and I think that this is one big development opportunity for all our ports. In particular, this amendment applies to the Port Authority of Poreč, but refers therefore to the construction of a port dam at the port of Saint Marina in Tara Vabriga and simply because of the super-centralised system in our country, the unit of local self-government is not able to self-finance such large infrastructure projects. In particular, the construction of a port in the fishing port of Saint Marina Tara Vabriga would provide much more quality port infrastructure than it is today. We therefore asked this amendment to include 15 million kunas in the state budget and to enable the construction of that infrastructure for both this and the other amendments, I will ask for a statement from the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60531	So, if I get this right, you're not going to explain the next one? Yeah, good. [[Intruder Miletic: We will, we will.]] Then let's vote. First, the amendment number 28 that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to amendment number 29 of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60532	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects in all ports within the Ministry, I repeat to activities a) 570219, 60 million kuna will be provided for projects that are to be applied to the Ministry's call and evaluated according to established criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60533	Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60534	Thank you very much. In particular, this amendment applies, therefore, to the administration of Poreč, however, for the construction of a fishing mall in Vrsar municipality, I am asking for an amount of 3 million kuna, because we believe that our fishermen really need a better port infrastructure. We all know together what difficulties fishermen face. Not only because of the fish fund, but also other negative activities. We therefore believe that the public sector should participate more actively in the construction of fishing infrastructure. We're asking you to put the amount of 3 million kuna into the budget. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60535	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to Amendment 30. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60536	The amendment is not accepted. For such projects it is ensured that the activities of A 572019 refurbishing and reconstruction of buildings under construction in ports open to county and local importance, the total amount of 60 million kuna. So here we invite the Rovinj port administration, since we have in collaboration with, all port administrations, not only in Istria but also in other counties, to report to the competition, on a public call. Of course, they will be valued according to established criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60537	Here's your colleague, Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60538	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The construction of the Rovinj harbor itself is necessary for a number of reasons, of course, except that it will serve to protect the harbor, there will be a beach here, but it is much more important that it facilitates access, which will have persons with disabilities, since the hospital itself is very close. We believe that this is a good example, how building infrastructure can serve not only its fundamental purpose, but also lead to broader effects in the community and in the common society. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60539	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Now we're going to the 31st Amendment of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60540	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects, 60 million kuna is secured. So the same explanation as before. So we call on the port administration of Poreč to apply for an invitation from the ministry, which will be announced after the adoption of the budget somewhere in January and February.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60541	My colleague Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60542	Thank you. This particular amendment relates to a significant increase in the number of tourists' arrivals in our country, especially in the town of Poreč, where capacity needs to be expanded, therefore, to build up an existing maritime terminal, in order to easily accept tourists. That is why we have asked that an amount of 15 million kuna be foreseen, in order to enable the local self-government unit to go into the venture, because simply a stand-alone budget cannot bear such a large capital expenditure. Please, let's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60543	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We're going to Amendment 32 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60544	The amendment is not accepted for infrastructure building projects in ports within the Ministry, provided with 60 million kuna, so we call on the port administration of Poreč to report for a tender that will be held in February 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60545	Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60546	Thank you very much. This particular amendment applies, therefore, to the harbor at the port of Poreč, I had previously talked about the need to expand the passenger terminal. This, therefore, refers to the construction of the harbor itself. I believe that 4 million kunas are the funds that the ministry can handle and thus enable, joint funding. We are never looking for independent, but joint funding between the state level and the level of units of local, or regional self-government. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60547	Let's make a statement about an amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 33. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60548	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects, in ports, in such similar ports, within the Ministry provided for rehabilitation activities, reconstruction of buildings, under construction in ports open to public transport of county and local importance, totaling 260 million kuna, which will be intended for projects, which are applied to the Ministry's call and evaluated according to established criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60549	A colleague of Demetlik's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60550	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers. Normally, I'm not happy with your answer, but you're from the coast. And surely a man who lives Croatian coast, the fact is that we who live by the sea and by the sea, protected port means everything to us. [[Intruder: Hrvatski.]] Luka, the protected port of Rabac will be achieved when the harbor is built. I would like to point out that this project in all strategic documents, the Istrian County, the city of Labina has been reported from 2006 until today. And it keeps repeating itself. But you keep telling us that you have 60 million for exactly these infrastructure projects. But I'm going to say that one more thing that's important is that these projects we've been preparing since 2006. That we were counting on being able to run towards European funds. But precisely because of non-quality operational programmes, which did not take into account the needs, us from regional or local level, are not included. Therefore, we believe that for capital projects, on one eastern coast of Istria, from Opatija, to Pula, 100 km of coast, you do not have a single protected port and you do not have a single gas station. Last year, more than 80m euros were invested in Rabac in tourism and we are forcing our boaters to fill their tanks with cans, and fishermen to go to Cres to fill their tanks with fuel. I think this project as a capital infrastructure project when it cannot be financed from European funds that must then be financed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60551	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We move to 34 amendments to the IDS, PGS and RI Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60552	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects in such ports within the Ministry, the provided activity of the reconstruction of public transport-opened sub-building facilities will be estimated at a total amount of 60 million kuna to be intended for projects applying for the Ministry’s invitation and evaluated according to the established criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60553	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60554	So here's what my colleague Demetlika said, and this amendment is already the tenth year on the draft budget. I remember well in 2007 when I talked about it, and it refers to the sanctuary of the Lukabran in the city of Pula which one of the few objects the Austro-Hungarian monarchy has never completed. So it has been 100 years since then and no government has found it appropriate to provide a part of the co-financing. So I'll repeat again once again we're all ready that everyone should endure their pain. For this project, there has been a project of documentation for ten years, and this project would significantly protect both property and citizens of the city of Pula. What I also want to say is that by co-financing from the state budget by participating the county budget and the city budget, we could finally complete this for the city before, rather than an important infrastructure project. When I said it was one of the few objects that the Austro-Hungarian monarchy had not completed, I mean the complete top part of the Lukobra that had never been completed and therefore the citizens, but so the property of the citizens of Pula and the economics is at one significant risk because God forbid a tidal wave would have much, much greater damage than these 75 million kunas needed to get rid of the Lukobran. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60555	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get enough votes. We're moving on to the 35th Amendment of the Honorable Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60556	The amendment is not accepted. With the aim of improving traffic in the city of Metković and achieving a quality link between the city and the HAC highway, they have developed a spatial road construction study of the state-owned road network in the wider area of Metković. The study examines the spatial features of the environment in question, the proposed stages of realisation of the selected variant or the basic prerequisite for the launch of further production of the study project documentation of the planned combined road are in line with the spatial planning documentation i.e. the spatial plan of Dubrovnik-Neretva County as well as the spatial planning of the city of Metković and the municipality of Kula Norinska. The change and addition of the county plan is currently under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60557	Representative God Petrov is not in the assembly, so we must vote on the amendment. The government doesn't accept it. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We are now going to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, respected Secretary of State Daniel Meštric. Amendment number 36 of the Bridge Representatives Club of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60558	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons for the part of the judiciary, by means of the A641000 activities relating to the regular operation of municipal courts, were planned in accordance with their requirements and in 2018 higher by 4% compared to 2017. The funds for the A84003 activities relating to the costs of professional training of judicial officers are planned in accordance with the user’s request and in 2018 are higher by 30% compared to 2017. It also does not accept the redistribution of funds within the division of 110 of the Ministry of Justice in such a way as to reduce the planned funds on capital projects, as they plan to improve working conditions and accommodation capacity of judicial and criminal authorities. As regards the construction domain in the draft budget for 2018 and the projections 2019 and 2020 on the activities of A664001 the maintenance of land cadastres and the establishment of cadastres is planned 15 million, in 2019. 8 million kuna and in 2020. Eight million kuna. These planned revenue from the source 43 means the income of a special purpose, these are the revenues made in accordance with the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings. The State Geodetic Administration is not able to carry out the required activities in that amount because there are not enough signed agreements with local self-government units and also part of the Catastrian municipalities will not be measured, but the homogenisation of cadastrian particles will be done which is much cheaper and the funds for the A664003 activities are provided for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60559	Apparition of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60560	Your Honor. So we have proposed this amendment for the reason why we believe that additional investment in new cadastrian measurements and the renewal and founding of land books has proven to be an increased economic activity. So if we care about the growth of the economy to invest in our country then we'll do that part as much as we need. So the number of cadastrian measurements that are not yet in the cadastrian and court proceedings at the moment is about a hundred, and according to current dynamics, the average duration of the court hearing is about five years. Some of the geodetic measurements that have already been performed wait 10 to 15 years. I would like you to consider this, if you haven't already decided to accept this in this budget I ask you to consider this for the next budget or for the rebalancing of this budget, because really if we want to help all those who want to invest in our country, then this is a prerequisite. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60561	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now moving to the amendments addressed to the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the respected Secretary of State Mario Šiljeg is with us. The first, or 37 amendments in a row, is the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60562	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the funds provided amounting to 12 million and 20000 kuna are planned to produce project documentation for irrigation systems. They are based on the realisation of existing and planned contracts and the expressed interest of the county, and it is sufficient for the planned dynamics of the implementation of this programme for 2018. Additional funds for the development of irrigation projects shall be provided in the financial plan of extra-financial beneficiaries of Croatian Waters and at the position of rural development measures of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60563	It's obvious. My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60564	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I am not at all satisfied with your explanation, although certain money is provided by Croatian Waters. We see from year to year that the state with irrigation of Croatian surfaces does not change, so according to the Croatian Watering Association data, only 0.76% of all processed surfaces are irrigated. Trend is constant from independence. For comparison one Bulgaria irrigates 18%, Romania 23%, Italy 24, Greece 26, Albania even 54% of its surfaces. These are data from the Croatian Irrigation Association. So much for irrigation. There is a catastrophic policy I would say even criminally by Croatian governments. As far as the elemental disasters are concerned, 20 million are mentioned here. Where's that increase to a hundred we haven't got an answer yet. As for the elementary disasters this year, according to Mayor Anusic, 293m kuna only from the drought, only Osijek-Baranja County. In 2012, it was 514 million, so if we compare these ridiculous 12 million for irrigation, and when you invest in irrigation, it's permanent construction, permanent contribution to infrastructure. It's gonna stay, and this is only one year we've got 20 times as much damage. So, the question arises why Croatia is not investing in prevention, that only one fraction of the damage done to Croatian agriculture at the annual level, and only from drought, to invest in irrigation would prevent damage not only that year, but all others that will only come because it is a lasting value. I demand the vote and the end of such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60565	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to the amendments addressed to the Ministry of Science and Education. Respected state secrets, Tomo Anticic. 38th Amendment of MPs Zeljko Jovanovic and Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60566	Yeah, the amendment doesn't accept number 38. The reason is that the means of prevention of violence in primary and secondary schools are secured from other sources of funding via the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry is also in the framework of a competition for associations... aimed at encouraging extra-institutional education and education to finance projects carried out in a mandatory partnership with schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the school year 2017/2018 18 projects with regard to zero tolerance for hate speech and violence totalling more than 1.5 million kuna, i.e. 2017, increased this activity by 200 thousand kuna and almost 40%, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60567	Appreciation for the esteemed colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60568	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Well, I'm not happy with your explanation because then cancel that item. Therefore, the item is intended for 707 thousand kunas to prevent violence in schools, which seems underestimating to the problem. And our proposal was to at least make that amount more than a million kunas, meaning a million and 200 thousand kunas because we are witnessing an increase in intolerance in Croatian society, and thus is being transferred to schools. Every fourth child in Croatia is a victim of peer violence. Even 27% of children experience some kind of violence every day, and 16% of children are violently treated by others and even teachers. I'll tell you an example from Rijeka. In Rijeka, the city of Rijeka financed civil education for all students of the five classes and at the end of the school year there was an analysis and a comparative scientific study with children who did not attend civic education and who did. An absolutely large increase in tolerance, mutual understanding and respect for others in a group of children who attended civic education. That money can then be invested in all schools as soon as possible in civil education as possible, such as this teaching activity. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60569	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are going to Amendment 39.Respected counterparts Domagoj Hajdukovic and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60570	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, working with gifted students is funded with several positions in the budget. Encouraging associations for outside institutional education and education of children and young people, encouraging the Croatian community of technical culture, encouraging programs of work with gifted students and students, encouraging outside of teaching activities in secondary schools and higher education, encouraging extracurricular activities in primary schools. The Ministry provided additional 10 million kunas in the framework of the European Social Fund for the implementation of 11 projects in primary and secondary schools as part of the tender for the promotion of work with gifted children and pupils at pre-anteral level, i.e. 2017, this activity increased by 1.4 million kuna, i.e. more than 300%, and the funds are sufficient for all planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60571	It's an obvious colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60572	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I can't accept this argument because if we're talking about the items you mentioned before, they're usually in terms of a million and something else. Because I have a specific amendment and... extracurricular activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But working with gifted students is something that we colleagues and colleagues often forget, underestimate, and do not work on enough. The amounts foreseen here in the budget, so in a specific item are two million kunas, that is a symbolic level. When you add it up with other items, it doesn't go past 5 million kunas. Gifted disciples need to be encouraged, developed, and helped by the system. An increase of 4 million in this item I suggested would still be symbolic. If we invested another $100 million, that wouldn't be enough, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60573	A vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed, so let's go to Amendment No. 40. It's a live wall representative's club and SNAG's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60574	The amendment is not accepted. The work of assistants in follow-up is funded with several positions. In this position exclusively by lottery funds that have been reduced in favour of associations that care about blind and weak-sighted and that is because the Ministry, through the European Social Fund with its activities, has contracted an operational programme of effective human potential four-year withdrawal amounting to over 360 million kuna, which represents an increase of around 16 million kuna per year. This is a significant increase in detachment for the work of about 3,000 assistants in the teaching and professional communications intermediaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60575	It's obvious to be a respected colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60576	I would like to tell the Prime Minister that I believe that the salaries of assistants should be more of a team if they co-financed from the EU, then you could increase those funds or the government would pay less than before and in practice these people would have higher salaries. And I'm most bitter about why? Because it is constantly said from the HDZ ranks that we from the Living Wall do not have any concrete proposals, however, every time we make any legislative proposal or amendment, such as a colleague, Sincic, which he gave for the disposal, i.e. for irrigation. Or I give you 20 million kunas to make more for national minorities, you turn it all down in a row. And not only do you obliterate my, or our amendments from the Living Wall, you reject amendments to all the opposition MPs, which means that your calling on us to give the proposals and amendments is actually hypocritical because even before we give them to them regardless of their quality and content, you will reject them. What's always going through is that the amendments are being rejected, only arguments are changing. And in fact, it turns out that we've been working hard for nothing, and we've written it in vain, and it's worth our while, and it's actually driving us into Sisife's work. I don't know if you know Sisif was pushing that stone but the stone would always come back. That's how we keep making amendments and you keep refusing them. So I ask the HDZ gentlemen no longer to say that we are not a constructive opposition and that we do not make proposals at least during the time they see us giving them and while they regularly reject them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60577	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 41st Representatives Sabina Glasovac, Bojan Glavasevic and Pedja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60578	So the amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the last one. So the assistant's work is trying to finance itself with several positions. ... the position exclusively by lottery funds that are reduced in favour of associations that care about the blind and the weak and for the reason that the Ministry... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the European and Social Funds with operational programme activities effectively human potential agreed a 4-year withdrawal amount of more than 360 million kuna, representing an increase of around 16 million kuna per year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These funds provide work for about 3,000 assistants in the teaching and professional communications intermediaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60579	An obvious, respected colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60580	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, if your argument were to hold water, then we wouldn't have the same problem at the beginning of every school year. And the problem is that it happens regularly that one of the children with developmental difficulties does not have an insurance assistant in the follow-up. Exactly what you say is that most of the funds are being provided from the European Social Fund and that these funds have been systematically increasing for 4 years at the annual level. Two other basics are also provided. However, I believe that by not accepting this amendment you will again cause a crisis during the next school year. The fact is that existing means aren't enough to ensure the standard that every child with difficulty in class has an assistant in teaching. But I'm not surprised by your explanation because this government has a problem with children with developmental difficulties. Because the biggest problems with em don't have enough assistants to get us here in crisis situations so that the assistants don't pay off in time for their pay, so every year we witness transportation problems, so the rule about children with disabilities still stands in the drawer, nothing happens. So unfortunately, I'm not surprised by your explanation and that you refuse to accept it because you obviously have different priorities. Priorities are airplanes, priorities are expensive cars and children with difficulties with such a small increase, unfortunately, which could save a lot of families and a lot of care, a lot of families, unfortunately, are not your priority. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60581	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not get the votes needed, so now we move on to the next amendment, which is number 42, Honored Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60582	So the amendment is not accepted. As part of its activities next year, the ministry will provide textbooks for students of primary and secondary schools of nearly 10 million kuna, and create rights on the basis of the right of the procedure to exercise the right to free textbooks of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families pupils of primary, secondary schools and students. Regulation on the conditions of procedures for the exercise of the right to free textbooks of military and civilian invalids wars, pupils of primary and secondary schools and students, decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-financing of the purchase of textbooks and the corresponding supplementary educational resources for the school year 2017/2018. and the next school year, students of primary and secondary schools and decisions on co-financing of compulsory textbooks for children killed by explosive war lags. Implementation of measures to ensure support for pupils of primary and secondary schools living and unfavourable socio-economic opportunities, the ministry implements in the framework of cross-sectoral cooperation with the Croatian Defence Ministry, the Ministry of Demography, the family, youth and social policy, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the social care centres and the offices of the state administration responsible for the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and the proposed funds are sufficient for planning activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60583	It's obvious, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60584	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, free textbooks must have all elementary school students and not just rich neighborhoods, which is why in the last 10 years we have 63,000 children less elementary school children. It is not a small number, mainly in 2/3 of Croatia di no free textbooks such as in Zagreb and even for the Zagreb mayor's elections buy textbooks in Petrinja. Why isn't every child the same? Why isn't he the same child in Vukovar, why isn't he the same child in Slavonia, Dalmatia, for what? What reason is that? What's the reason for every child to break the Constitution? Why don't you accept this, that every child is the same to us? Well, we voted for the Constitution. We have a constitution. So please fellow Parliamentarians, do you deserve every child, colleague Šipić, to have free textbooks or to give out of poor budgets? Comrade Sanader, mayors, commissioners, do we deserve every child to have the same right to pay out of poor budgets? We've secured both of us from Sinj, but the hard-lived people, please accept this, this is about children, 68 000 children we've had less in primary schools in the last 10 years, if you don't support this, we can't call for demographics, demographic policies, and it can be all shame and shame to call for education, education, curricula reform when we can't provide basic conditions for all students mainly in underdeveloped areas, and these are textbooks. It's embarrassing if this isn't supported. Please, on behalf of these children, these poor parts, support this proposal, my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60585	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, we go to Amendment 43 of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60586	So the amendment is not accepted. In fact, extracurricular activities in primary schools are funded with several positions. These are incentives to organisations for extra-institutional education and education of children and young people, incentives to the Croatian community of technical culture, encouraging programs of work with gifted students and students, encouraging extracurricular activities in primary schools and stressing that the planned funds are sufficient for all planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60587	It's obvious, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60588	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are 2 050 primary schools in Croatia, about 20 extracurricular activities are carried out in each primary school, which means that the extracurricular activities in the Republic of Croatia have about 40,000 minimum. These extracurricular activities are different profilings, so we have art groups, music choirs, photogroups, geographical groups, mathematical, historical and various others. What I would like to point out is that particularly abandoned school gardens and school orchards, which usually have at least theoretically but are not being treated which is a great shame because, among other things, by encouraging such activities, material benefits could be achieved. Namely, the fruits of gardens and orchards could be used within the school's diet so that the funds would actually be invested and returned in some way back to the budget. The development of extracurricular activities promotes the specific abilities of students such as their talent or their entire life-long learning, the need for volunteering and various other useful skills. Among other things, by developing extracurricular activities, children are safe and later in the future have a better opportunity for employment because they have gained some experience, some skills that are not taught within the regular course itself. We predict this amendment to increase by just one million kuna. In the budgets for each extracurricular activity, 20 kuna is foreseen and we now raise the funds to the too modest 40 kuna. We're taking the government's fleet. Gentlemen of the government, we only take two cars for 2000 primary schools in the Republic of Croatia to carry out extracurricular activities. I demand a vote on this amendment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60589	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We're going to Amendment 44 of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60590	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for the last point. In fact, extracurricular activities in primary schools are funded with several positions, incentives to outside institutions for education for children and young people, promotion of the Croatian community, technical culture, promotion of work programmes with gifted students and students, promotion of extracurricular activities in primary schools, and to stress that the planned funds are sufficient for all planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60591	It's an obvious colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60592	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. As you said, colleagues of Bunjcu before me, I do not accept this explanation for the simple reason that extracurricular activities are extremely important for the socialization of students, it is important to promote their creativity. It's important because they stay in school safely with teachers, and it's important because they acquire certain skills and skills that they can't through formal teaching. So I have suggested an increase of 4 million kuna, I think that with 5 million kuna, 2000 primary schools in Croatia would have a symbolic amount at their disposal. With a million and 300 kuna, they don't have that either. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60593	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We continue, 45 amendments by Sabina Vosovac, Bojan Glavasevic and Pedja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60594	So the amendment is not accepted. For the professional training of teachers and teachers in secondary schools, financial resources shall also be provided in the budget of the Education and Education Agency and of the Professional Education Agency, adult education. From this position, funds are provided for work, over 550 county expert councils in secondary schools. Also, funds for the professional training of teachers and teachers are foreseen in the amount of 150 million kuna within the European Social Fund under the operational programme of effective human potential. The projects are in the final stage of production.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60595	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60596	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you cannot promise, the introduction of full curricula reform, and... since the next school year, if you are unable to increase, significantly increase funds in this particular item, which is the professional training of teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The projections for 2019 and 2020 are even worse, as it suggests, that you are making false promises to the people, or citizens, and that unfortunately, the entire curricula reform will be extended to another school year. The funds you have provided, i.e. decided to increase to some small extent, here, will not be sufficient, for more serious preparation. We can't, we can make all the documents, but we can't implement this reform without those people working in chambers, and these are just teachers and teachers. First, they were not respected by some long-signed additions to the contract, on an increase in pay base. It is now unable to increase these funds for their professional training and training. Without professionally developed, trained teachers and teachers, who are of quality but must go continuously into step from time to time. This must be given to them by the state, there is no progress in our education system. I demand a vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60597	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. So let's go to Amendment 46, Agent Stephen Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60598	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, there is no commitments made by the Republic of Croatia in relation to this capital project. We stress that it is not possible to reduce the funding at the position of A580037 public interurban transfer of pupils, as it is already agreed on by the Republic of Croatia for 2018. And the reduction of funds would call into question the implementation of the Government's programme on co-financing and financing of public inter-urban student transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60599	It's obvious, colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60600	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I wouldn't agree, because you know, when a public tender goes, the prices that are always scheduled are always lower, because more carriers come forward and always these prices are more favourable than planned. This is what I asked for last year. Unfortunately, this government does not have any development projects or funds, where it could occur, to build a school. We are talking here about the natal politics, about the demographics of Croatia, about us in Međimurje, there is also a need for building up the hall. In that school you walk 60% of the members of Roma nationality, meaning national minorities Roma, and this would be one step closer, what we talked about yesterday, quality education and for those children and later as much quality and better integration into society as possible. Also, there are other things, but here, there's no such thing as not even development, definitely, you've taken over some items from Varazdin County, you're funding all the schools that were made and there's no school in Međimurje County. It means that what you took over in Varazdin County is practically part of the price that you bought the coalition to have enough hands to vote this budget. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60601	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Neither did this amendment get a sufficient number of votes, so let's go to Amendment No. 47th Honored Representative Stephen Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60602	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, there are no commitments made by the Republic of Croatia in relation to this capital project. Only after defining the content and obligation to co-finance all participants and users of the Center for Education and Education will Cakovec be it possible to propose the provision of funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. We stress that there is no less resources in the position of public interurban transport for students because it is already agreed and assumed commitments of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. And the reduction of funds would call into question the implementation of the Government's programme on co-financing and financing of public inter-urban student transport. Talks are being held in parallel with the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds on the possibility of funding this project from the Norwegian government's gift card, which provides approximately 30m euros for the education sector. During 2018, we will know the results of these negotiations. In any case, we are aware of the importance of this project and the necessity of its realization.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60603	It's an obvious colleague of Kovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60604	I thank the President of the Parliament. Well, I can say that I also talked to Ministers Divjak and Murganic about the project. There were promises that once Virovitica was made in the 2018 budget to put the Center for Education and Education Čakovec which is necessary, it was a building that was built in the '80s where children practically work teaching on the halls and also snack is on the halls. And on the other hand, when you look at it, in this budget, 1.4 billion kuna goes for new employment, so I don't have to be rude, so I say denigrating. And I don't think it's right that I can't find the children's resources for a project this badly needed more than children with developmental difficulties. I have been praying to the ministers and I have a promise from both the ministers I mentioned that this project will be projected for 2019 and 2020, and I am sorry that they are not there, I believe that they will keep their promise. And I don't know why there's no project in the 2019 projections, because it was agreed that after the same project was completed in Virovitica that it would start to build projects in Čakovec, as I said before and say, please a little quiet, if you don't care, here at least be so cultural and listen. ... I'm talking about children with special needs, gentlemen, I'm sorry you don't have that hearing, I'm sorry. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'm not talking about partisans and Ustashas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60605	Wait a minute, please. Please, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague has the right to speak, and you must be quiet at that time, according to the Rules of Procedure. So go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60606	As I said, I believe that here is the means to be provided in 2019 and 2020 because it is a necessary project to be made. I thank and give, of course, I demand a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60607	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes, so let's go to Amendment No. 48th Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60608	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, no procedures have been initiated in accordance with all the regulations governing and financing capital projects through the JPP, procurement and settlement procedures that last for such projects for at least 6 months and the amount of financial resources necessary is not known. According to the above, it is apparent that 50 million kuna is proposed, could not be spent in 2018 for the proposed project and there is no basis for planning the proposed project.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60609	An obvious colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60610	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, what you said is not true because this project began to be implemented in 2014 and Bjelovar County has pointed out its intention to invest funds in a number of halls tied to school facilities in the area of the entire county, it is about a dozen halls where we would invest in our children or sports activities of our children. I hope that the representatives who are here from the ruling coalition, at least from the Bjelovar-Bilogian County, will vote in favour of this amendment. And to see that it is possible, it can also be seen that last year I gave the amendment to the Belovar County and the Varazdin County identical with the same projects. This year's budget, funds were found for facilities, i.e. a public-private partnership in Varazdin County. Is it because Cacic became mayor and supported this coalition, i.e. the ruling majority or that Štromar, a recent mayor became minister or vice-president of the government to this coalition? It is evident that the same could be done in the Bjelovar-Bjelovar County. If it could be done now for Varazdinska, you could have done it for the Bjelovar-Bylogorian County. And it is not fair that children are slaves to relations in your coalition, that is, now that the HNS has settled on a small door in the coalition, the majority of children are rewarded for this, for example, in Varazdin County and punished in the Bjelovar-Belogor County. So the children in the Bjelovar-Belova County didn't deserve it and you could have done it. And that's why I'm asking you here not to misinformed the public and you're saying it wasn't possible. If possible in Varazdin, it is also possible in Bjelovar I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment, and I particularly say I appeal to representatives from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60611	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We are now going to the seven amendments of the IDS, PGS and RI Club, 49th is the first number.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60612	The amendment is not accepted. They are also proposed in contrast to the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, which do not provide for the possibility of providing funding for this... national budget of the Republic of Croatia, but in the budgets of the founders of co-financing institutions and cities. It is also to point out that we are aware of the modest fiscal capacities of the founders of school institutions and that the existing resources are not enough to finance the needs of education infrastructure and we have proposed to the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds to launch negotiations on the modification of the operational programme in a way that has not been possible so far to enable the financing of the educational infrastructure from eu funds. Talks on a possible credit arrangement to finance priority projects are being held in parallel, and for those facilities that are at risk of the safety of pupils and employees, amendments to the Law on Education and Education are envisaged, which is already in the public debate in a way that such urgent needs could also be financed from the state budget. It is also positive that an increase in funding funds for decentralised functions is planned for 4% next year, and in addition, units of local and regional self-government will have higher revenues for around 1.5 billion kuna by amending the competent law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60613	Obviously, here you go, fellow Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60614	Thank you very much. Well, all these announcements, if it's really going to be like this, we see that it's pretty funny to you, so maybe there's a certain skeptic that it's really going to be like that. But this set of amendments relating to primary, secondary schools and our university, along with the first ones relating to infrastructure, are therefore looking at how to help the economy and what is needed by knowledge and science. [[No, it won't be.]] So if Croatia were to be a decentralised country and if at least 30% of the revenues achieved locally were to be kept there and kept there, believe me, this club would not have submitted any of these amendments. Our vision and our policy is that local communities where added value is created should have more opportunities through their municipalities, cities and counties on these newly created values and decide. I believe that the proposal going towards the Ministry of Regional Development specifically for the Istrian County will again be retired. Why? Simply because of the conditions and the development index. So I'm asking myself a question, if we really want to move forward, if we're going to develop, is it really wise to try to slow down? This particular amendment refers to one small municipality, the Municipality of Marcana which has no chance of self-financing all together. Normally, if the Istrian County were to go after some of the funds to be provided, however, I believe it would be very useful if the state level recognized development projects as well as what concerns our primary, secondary, or higher education. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60615	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you for some peace, because it's very loud in the assembly and the speakers don't hear at all, so I'm asking you to keep it a little bit. Now let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We're going to Amendment number 50 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60616	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the last point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60617	Thank you very much. So this amendment refers to the elementary school in Svetvinčenat is about the amount necessary for the construction of the school and sports hall of 18.5 million kuna. But since time allows me, I'll try to explain it further. I see that the big problem with demographics in Croatia is that it is trying in every way possible to secure funds to ensure demographic recovery from maternity benefits further. But the problem of demographics is not only in poorer countries, the problem concerns the entire old continent. And I believe that just by building schools, building sports halls, or by allowing better quality of life for both our children and their parents, we can contribute much, much more to demographic recovery than to one-time payments through some kind of birth benefits or something like that. This is also one of the smaller municipalities that is really developing, but this amount in their budget is unreachable. So the Istrian County also fits into the construction of this school, which is related to the construction and reconstruction of the existing building as well as the construction of a single-part sports hall. So it's about Svetvinčenat Elementary School and I'm asking for a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60618	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 51 of the IDS, PGS and RI.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60619	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the last two points.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60620	Obviously, here you go, fellow Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60621	Thank you very much. So it's about the elementary school of Dr. Mate Demarin in Medulin. So Medulin certainly makes a significant contribution to filling the state budget and to ensure minimum technical conditions for teaching at the primary school of Dr. Mate Demarina Istrian County plans to edit that school through reconstruction, upgrade and upgrade of the existing school building. Also for this project, the Istrian County has provided some of the necessary funds, however, to complete the entire project, a total of 17 million kuna is missing. I therefore ask for a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60622	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed, so let's go to Amendment 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60623	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the last three points.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60624	Please show off, colleague Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60625	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, here's when Istra asks a question then certain rules are imposed with reasons and experiences teach us that for the purposes of primary education from the state budget for years, and that in a hundred percent amount, funds are touched whether to build, whether to reconstruct, whether to upgrade primary schools. Secretary of State, you will be able to notice that when I make an amendment to me then we always make it very precise and clear whether the county as founder or unit of local self-government as founder if it comes to elementary schools has always provided more than 50% of the necessary resources. We've never come with a 100% asset requirement. This is about elementary school in Kanfanar Petra Studenco, and this is what we from the IDS propose, specifically to my former colleague, who comes from the HSLS for a fundamental reason why the Commissioner is really trying to improve and upgrade the social standard in his municipality, but they also admitted that financial capacities are very modest. We followed this amendment and what will be tomorrow about it, so I believe that within the resolution ministry itself, funds can be found especially for these small municipalities that need to be helped as my colleague Miletic said, demographics is one of the fundamental issues and in smaller places demographics plus science plus education are the pillars and foundations of this society. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60626	We are voting on an amendment that the government does not accept. Nor did this amendment get the required number of votes, so let's now go to the 53rd amendment of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60627	Therefore, the amendment is not accepted from the same reasoning as the last 4 points.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60628	So this amendment refers to Vladimir Nazor's primary school in Vrsar, being sought from the basis of the long-term assets produced by 9 million kuna and 500 000 kunas for reasons necessary to ensure minimum technical conditions for teaching at the Vladimir Nazora primary school in Vrsar, it is necessary to implement reconstruction, upgrade and upgrade of the existing school building. Col. Sponza said very well that for fewer municipalities, school infrastructure or investment in education is something of the utmost importance, so please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60629	Let's vote on an amendment that didn't get government support. The amendment didn't go through, we're going to 54th, IDS, PGS, LRI.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60630	Therefore, the amendment is not accepted from the same reasoning as the last 5 points.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60631	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60632	Thank you very much. This is about the Mate Balota elementary school from Buje, in order to ensure that funds should be invested in the primary school building itself. It is a sum of 5 million kuna for which I think perhaps, this is already if they were so hard to secure some fewer amounts at least with a good will for quality amendments, I can accept, regardless of whether it comes from a political opposition or political position. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60633	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment has not received the required number of votes, we move to Amendment 55 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60634	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is the same as for the last six points.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60635	Zminj municipality is a very serious financial problem resulting from heritage. We have given the amendment to ensure minimum technical conditions for the needs of Vladimir Gortan Elementary School for which the county has mostly provided the funds and that I do not repeat myself in the explanation that I said earlier, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60636	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We're going to Amendment 56 of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60637	The amendment is not accepted from the same explanation as for the last 7 points.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60638	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60639	Thank you very much. So this is for not believing, a project that paid 3 million kuna, for 10 years has been negotiated by the county, the city of Sinj and the ministry. The county and the ministry have pledged to go to this 50-50%. agreed to go into the building of the school building because simply not because we don't have textbooks, we don't even have schools for our children in the area of the cetin area. Let me just say, the Cetin area has as many residents as the entire Lika-Senj County and it's sad and embarrassing what was in the 2016 budget, it was expelled in 2017, because I didn't vote for the budget, you can remember no matter what was part of the majority and even more embarrassing that it continued. So what is the reason that these ends are forgotten? Well, that's why our kids and our kids are leaving. They have no conditions to come to the classroom new. Class is full, full, low capacity. And you're calling for a curricula reform, you're not gonna do it. To the generals who write books you pronounce a ham, what are you doing? What are you doing? So do you really want the whole of Croatia to move out? Is that your interest? Well, you made a deal for 10 years. He was coming and... With them blue a couple of times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's some confirmation from Dalmatia here. Here's a call from Mayor Boban who said he'd have a tent in front of the government if these promises don't come true, breaking through the tunnel. I'll be with him together. Forgetting the ends, moving the ends, sending extremely embarrassing messages to the people of those parts where I would like us all to survive together. Due to these messages, the two-thirds of Croatia are empty due to these mismanagements, and the young are leaving us. Please accept this amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60640	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we move on to Amendment 57.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60641	So the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as the last eight points.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60642	Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60643	Thank you very much. So, I would like to remind you that the problem of a secondary medical school that was partially abandoned since 2003 is taking place at several locations in the city of Pula. Here after a long time, I'm glad we're finally building a new general hospital in our city so that only a general hospital can work, but other health institutions need personnel coming from the field of health. So, as this school is currently deployed in several locations of Istria County and the city of Pula have provided a significant part of the funds needed to build a new high school. And I would like to stress that there is complete documentation for this school, so including confirmation of the main project that it means that only an object can be built. We tried to ensure the construction of that school in the previous period and through the public private partnership model. However, we all know together what situation the construction site in Croatia was in, so the construction sector. So we decided to go together to finance the construction of this school, and as I said since the Istrian County annually is investing in the state budget over a billion kuna more than it is returning, I hold that this would be a minimum in small scales to provide adequate funding for co-financing of the construction of the Medical School in the city of Pula. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60644	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're moving on to amendment number 58 of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60645	So the amendment is not accepted. Same argument as the last two points.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60646	This amendment refers to high school and Jure Dobrila's professional school in Pazin. We all know together how important this is to the educational centre throughout Istria and thus to ensure minimum technical conditions for teaching and teaching both in high school and at the Yuri Dobrila vocational school in Pazin. It is necessary to arrange the specified school in a way that builds up and upgrades the existing school building. For that purpose, the Istrian County has provided some of the necessary funds, but we hold that it would be adequate to ensure participation from a state level of 9 million kuna. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60647	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. The next amendment is the number 59 of MP Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60648	So the amendment is not accepted. In this position, the amount of 48 million kuna is estimated to be 982,000, which accounts for a growth of 7 million kuna and 140 thousand kuna, respectively 17%, and is the same enough to finance expenditure for employees of currently 322 young doctoral researchers employed on scientific and research projects on... A system of science, higher education with an increase in their number for two hundred new researchers based on a new competition project to develop the career of young researchers, education of new doctors of science, which will be planned in the spring of 2018. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60649	An obvious colleague, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60650	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I know it's not easy for you. You probably concluded that it is better to deal with the physics of elemental particles and fields than to respond to our amendments. It is interesting, however, that of these 106 amendments that have been accepted into the state budget as much as 32 to education and science, which at least testifies how interested we are in improving education and science. It is a pity that the government has not chosen at least one symbolically and has given support to this one amendment to say here this is the community of opposition and rulings when it comes to education and science. I must say that according to UNESCO's 148-nation report, Croatia is ranked 137 places by the ability to retain its young talented researchers, and 141 out of 148 to attract foreign young researchers in Croatia. Therefore, this increase in the amount that I have proposed would certainly help us on this scale and would allow us to retain our young recruits, but also bring young researchers from around the world to Croatia and thus make Croatia more competitive in this big world market of knowledge, innovation and capital because otherwise we will continue to lag behind. So what's important is to say really part of the funds is increased in the budget. However, relative to the growth of the budget, Croatia will continue to lag behind on the growth of gross domestic product and will not be able to achieve its goal of 2020. 1.4% of gross domestic product is allocated for science, and 2020. Europe will stand out 3%. He's currently out 2%, but we're at 0.80%. So, not that we're not going to achieve 1.4%, but we're going to fall by the percentage that is now miserable. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60651	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We have a esteemed colleague, Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60652	Your Honor. The government is giving 10.5 billion kuna next year for interest, and there are no sick children who are protesting here with their parents, so I'm asking for a break to talk about the problem of how much interest is going on. And all these amendments could go away just to cut interest rates a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60653	I'll give my colleague Pernar a break, but there'll be a break at 4:00, and then we'll have a little break for people to rest. Same, good. [[Intruder: May I seek a break on the same subject immediately.]] My colleague Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60654	I'm looking for a break... of thousands of Facebook profiles and Instagram profiles in Croatia in the last few minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60655	Please. We're working well until 4:00, then we'll take a break. Here you go, Amendment number 60. It's an amendment to the Living Wall and SNAGA Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60656	The amendment is not accepted. For the activities of the scientific centres of excellence STEM area, additional funding in the transfer item between budgetary users of the same budget is foreseen to amount from one million kuna in the proposal for a national budget for the following year, and sufficient resources are provided for for additional national funding of the regular activity of 10 scientific centres of excellence and STEM area of science. As part of the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion with these 10 research centres carried out in accordance with the priority areas of the Smart Specialisation Strategy, contracts have been concluded to implement the total value of over 370 million kuna, which will be financed by the European Regional Development Fund, which will encourage the development of their border research and capacity building. First payments will go on these days.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60657	Appreciation Lives Wall and Power fellow Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60658	Thank you, President of the Parliament. The poor million kunas are given to this item of STEM area additional funding. Instead of having a strong definition in Croatia to invest in scientific research, innovation, technological development, we do not. We put in fighter planes, long-range artillery, radars, and I don't know what hundreds of millions of kunas, there's no indication that this trend will change if this government lasts, it's all lost years for education. Serious countries give 7.8% as Norway gives, and we give only about 4.5, for research and technological development we are about 1%, serious countries give up to five times as much, and such a trend has been for a long time. That way we will never reach or outrun many other countries. At the same time, the government increases at 4 years by 100% government expenditure, such a situation and commitment is unacceptable. We ask that, first of all, a clear plan and a commitment be made to invest in those parts where a single kuna can form five kunas. So, according to German data, nearly 22m euros of investment in innovation have been returned. It would be interesting to see data for Croatia and Croatian potentials. So we have to allow our people to work, this way it doesn't happen and threatens further lag behind. We've heard a lot of data in this discussion about the Ministry of Education before. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60659	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to Amendment 61 of MPs Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60660	The amendment is not accepted. The estimated amount is sufficient for the purpose of funding scientific activities at 25 scientific institutes and 8 public universities, and based on the latest results... an indicator of scientific activities which will allow for greater competence of Croatian scientists and scientific activities in the European Research Area. In order to stress that 50 million kunas were foreseen in this position in 2017, increased to around 60 million kuna and the estimated amount for 2018 is an increase compared to this year by 8.5 million kuna, respectively, in 14.3%.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60661	An obvious colleague, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60662	Thank you very much. Well, here I must commend the Secretary of State, but he did try to give us reasons that are as much more content as his predecessors, which shows that he has really joined our amendments with due respect. But what I have to repeat is that yet this increase is not enough for the simple reason that it does not follow our desire to single out for science in 2020 1.4%. So that's the information that we all have to worry about and in all the budgets that will go after this year we have to increase that amount. Otherwise, the president of the European Research universities was recently in Zagreb, who said 1.5 euros invested in higher education and science brings 6 euros to the economy. Now another problem is that in the world 90% of science doctors work in the economy, and in Croatia only works 10%. So we have to change that, too. We in the SDP didn't report for this break around the expensive drug fund because I gave the amendment to the topic, but in the second reading, they didn't accept it. And then I have to tell an anecdote, just wanting that amendment to be as high as possible, and it was about the health ministry transferring HZZO 150 million kuna, I gave it to Secretary of State Tufekčić to examine it from A to Z and he said it was good, but now they didn't accept it. It was an amendment for the state to fulfil its obligation under the Mandatory Insurance Act and to pay HZZO 4 billion and 200 million where there would then be no problem for children and all others because these funds could be spent in a fund for expensive medicines in accordance with the guidelines of the European Agency and medical products, not spent in black holes, which Minister Kujundzic unfortunately did not know how to close. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60663	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 62 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60664	The amendment is not accepted. The project financing activities of scientific activities provide for the amount of 95 million in the proposal for a national budget for the following year, which grows 5 million kuna and 5.6% respectively. To emphasize that since 2015, when the amount of 89 million kuna was planned in this position, a continuous increase in the planned funds in 2016 to 86.8 million kuna, this year to 90 million kuna. It is apparent that the increase compared to 2015 is 16 million and over 20% respectively. It is also evident that the Ministry of Science recognises the importance of investment in scientific research activities and what it sees in projections that plan to continue to grow in isolation. The estimated amount is sufficient for the stable financing of competitive research projects of the Republic of Croatia, the Foundation for Science of the Republic of Croatia, with the planned funding of current and around 250 to 300 new projects at the annual level. It is important to note that in addition to these EU allocations at the end of the year, five-year funding of 10 scientific centres of excellence amounting to almost 50m euros was agreed and in the final phase of the tender for funding scientific and research infrastructure amounting to over 100m euros, which is increasing significantly for Croatian science.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60665	It's obvious, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60666	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is truly amazing to me, sir, that you are reading an explanation that you personally know is completely incorrect and pointless. So you're simply cutting down on science every year in percentages, they're also in 2015 when you've listed them far and too small in relation to those needs that science has and in relation to all EU members. So you said we have now increased by 3 million, which you will do with these 3 million, please tell for science, when you know that in European countries billions are being allocated to that, among other things, because the funds invested in science increase GDP and strengthen competitiveness, create jobs, reduce emigration and generally prevent all the negative phenomena that we have witnessed in Croatia since your party is in power. Also, I'd like to say that buying a plane is usually a servant's move where you're giving 350 million to get some 12 planes and we're a member of a NATO alliance that owns 3,900 fighter planes. And now you tell me, what are we going to get from those 12 planes to 3,900? Whom do we fear if we have 3,900 planes that will attack us and who has even persuaded you to buy those planes, who are you kissing, which corporation, which embassy, which is the interest of Croatia to spend money on something completely unnecessary, for a cold drive instead of giving for what is most needed, which is for education, for young people, for capable people for so-called. brains, stay in our country without her going abroad. Therefore, your argument enters the anthology of completely pointless arguments in this Croatian Assembly, and for this reason I ask that an amendment be made to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60667	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 63 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs has been withdrawn, so we are going to amend the number 64 of MPs of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60668	Amendment number 64 is not accepted. In order to make the Law establishing a university in Slavonski Brod functional, it is necessary to make a decision by the Senate of the University of Osijek on the separation of their constituents. Only then would it be possible to register a new university at the Commercial Court, which would be considered to be both a de facto and a deiura university in Slavonski Brod. So until legal assumptions are fulfilled for the application of the law establishing a university in Slavonski Brod, there is no basis for including it in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60669	It's obvious, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60670	Thank you, Mr. President. The Law establishing the University of Slavonski Brod was adopted in this House on 25 September 2015 and was confirmed by the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia. These are procedural things that the ministry should have done a long time ago. The funds were symbolic that something was starting to work on that path. The University of Osijek was not discussed until the end, they had some conditions and were ready to respond so that the University of Brod could start working but the responsibilities of this government and this ministry which does not continue. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60671	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that he has not received enough votes, so we move to Amendment 65 of the IDS, PGS and LRI Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60672	Amendment number 65 is not accepted. Namely, in this position where salaries and material rights of employees of the University of Pula are planned, growth is proposed for 2018 at a sufficient amount of 4,4%, and this is based on the highest basis of growth. It is also to stress that public sector wages are growing after a long number of years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60673	It's obvious, fellow Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60674	Somehow you're skeptical of how you explained it. But here I will try to show myself a great injustice, committed towards the University of Jurj Dobrila in Pula, one of the youngest universities in Croatia that recently celebrated its first 10th anniversary. Since the University of Jurja Dobrila in Pula has been strategically focused on the development of study programmes and research in the field, the transfer of knowledge and innovation in the economy, and the adjustment of the labour market, it is normal for this significant step to also provide development jobs. And now we're getting the key. So, if you said up to a guaranteed increase of 4.4%, however, the same increase should be progressive for younger and smaller universities. However, when we look at the size of growth, i.e. the range of increases in other universities that are older and larger, therefore, this range is from 7.1% to 8.6% compared to 2017. Therefore, our university in Pula has been suspended twice. For the first time since in this financial year and the only disciplined adherence to the instructions of the ministry and did not exceed the consumption, they were punished by budget rebalancing, because while other universities provided this, the pulse was not. And you're punishing him further because you gave him the least increase of 4.4%, while the range is 7.1 to 8.6%. It's just not fair. It is not fair to these young scientists, it is not fair to that young university and regardless of what you have rejected this amendment, I believe that you will correct this injustice through the rebalancing of the budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60675	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to Amendment 66 of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60676	The amendment is not accepted. In addition to the funds proposed in the state budget on the subject of the opposition, the Ministry of European, Social Fund under the operational programme of effective human potential, prepared projects, granted scholarships to students of lower social economic status and provided additional 320 million kuna over a period of 5 years. The number of scholarships, which has so far been awarded by the ministry, increased from 5400 scholarships per year to 10,000 scholarships per year for the next 5 year period, including this academic year. In addition to this, the implementation of the 3400-steam scholarship is under way for the next 5-year period. Finally, the total number of scholarships will be more than doubled.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60677	It's an obvious colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60678	Thank you, Mr. President. If that's really the case, and I have to admit that the Ministry of Science of Education and Sports in the last... It has not shown much in the withdrawal of European money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if that's true, then why do we have this budget item at all? If it's 320 million will be secured, so, 64 million a year, why... My proposal was that the funds provided for students of weaker economic status be at least as they were last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not about increasing, it's about keeping that standard. If, therefore, so much money is available, I don't understand the point of this item in the budget. And if this item is important, as it's obvious, because it's in the budget, then at least stay at the level last year. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60679	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We're going to Amendment 67. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60680	Amendment number 67 is not accepted. The University of Juraj Dobrila in Pula, like all other higher schools, will be able to present its capital needs, and in the same position, maintenance of the facilities, we envisioned an amount of 24 million kuna. Which is a double increase for higher education capital activities compared to this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60681	It's obvious, fellow Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60682	Thank you very much, President. So don't approve 0.9 million kuna, here, this is really very hard to write. Maybe just what you say, makeup does, I can... Probably the smallest amendment proposed by all 147 today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's about $90,000 on your budget. In the phase, therefore, the project relating to the expansion of the university campus and this amendment went with it precisely because these costs cannot be covered, recognised by European funds. And I think that there was political wisdom, you could adopt this painless amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60683	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. We're moving on to the next, number 68 of Peja Grbin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60684	So, the amendment is not accepted, the reason is that the University of Juraj Dobrila in Pula as all other high schools will be able to present their capital needs, and for the same is at the position of maintenance facilities, the estimated amount of 24 million kuna, which, as I said in the previous answer, is a double increase compared to these activities this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60685	An obvious, esteemed colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60686	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll pick up where my esteemed colleague Miletic stopped, so I'll read you some numbers. This item in the 2014 budget It was 10 million kuna. In the budget for 2015 This item, capital investment at the University of Pula, amounted to 9 million and 500 thousand kuna. And then something happened in early 2016, so that item fell first to 900 000 kuna in 2016. After that, for 400,000 kuna in 2017, in order to give you, in 2018, your ministry and your colleagues from the HNS, thank you for this – zero for the University of Pula. One single zero. Why? You'll have to answer that question yourself. But try to get to Pula, try to get to universities located in coastal towns, try to get to Split, try to come to Zadar and try to rent an apartment if you don't have room in your home, and as a rule in your home place you can't get and try to rent an apartment from which you won't get kicked out in the sixth month. Try not to make it. If you want to ensure that we have higher education in our coastal cities, then you will have to secure money for capital investments in our coastal universities. I couldn't stand the amendments to the other items, maybe I should have. But seeing as how you reacted is obvious that you would refuse everything else. And just one more thing. This 24 million kuna that you predicted should run for all universities in the Republic of Croatia, so aren't you ashamed to say it at all. 24 million kuna as capital investments in all universities in the Republic of Croatia. Shame on you! Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60687	Comrade coat of arms, please choose your words. This wasn't appropriate. We can't, this is a job the secretary of state is doing in good faith. You can't say that because of the work he's doing, it should be a shame. That's not right. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60688	Mr. President, by your performance, you have injured the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in Article 238, because you have in fact demeaned not only me, but also the other representatives. To use the word shame upon you, to use the word shame upon you either does not constitute a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And the word be ashamed; shame is not offensive. She's just an invitation to something that you and obviously your political option are not capable of. Thank you. Feel free to give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60689	I won't give you a warning, but I don't agree with you. We will now vote on this amendment for which the government has not given its support. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. We're going to the last amendment addressed to this ministry. It's a "Live Wall and Power Club" number 70. I'm sorry, he's still a representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic before that. Yes, it is, 69. Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60690	Amendment 69 is not accepted. In particular, the subject-matter of the activities, i.e. extracurricular technical culture programmes, shall be financed from the assets of the lottery spent in the amount of revenue achieved and at the position of the planned value shown. And experience tells us that lottery funds increase every year, and thus Istria will be sufficient to realise all programming activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60691	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60692	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I can't agree with you. When we talk about technical culture and the promotion of technical culture, the program of extracurricular technical culture programs in primary school is unfortunately not working enough here. We're talking about STEM, we're talking about natural sciences, exact sciences, empowering the same ones, and at the same time we're doing the maximum technical culture in primary school. In primary school during the year, students have one hour of technical culture. So it's not enough at least not enough. If we stay with such a curricula and such a high school captain, they don't even have one. So if they don’t study, or if they go to a school that has nothing to do with technical sciences. So they don't have any. If we stay in order to strengthen technical culture, STEM area, exact science and so on, then we must invest at least these symbolic million kunas and encourage extracurricular activities for technical culture. So, because of the small-time fund, because of the fact that our students remain technically illiterate, I demand that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60693	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes, so now we're going to this 70th, last amendment to this ministry. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60694	So Amendment number 70 is not accepted. Namely, the diet of students of weaker socio-economic status is financed through the Ministry of Demography, family, youth, social policy through the EU FEAD Fund, which finance a warm meal for all children from the county who have a lower 125% average of the Republic of Croatia. All through the county for this school year secured 25 million kuna. Countys with a higher index of development are reported diet projects for children of socially endangered families to contests of the Children's Foundation through which approximately 5.5 million kunas are secured, thus covering all children of the weaker socioeconomic status.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60695	An obvious colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60696	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I'm not happy with your explanation because it doesn't really represent the state of things. Namely, the funds you mentioned will be shared only in primary schools, but not in high school, and we also have children of poorer socioeconomic status and secondary schools and what is even more interesting they often stay longer at school than students in other schools because they have no knowledge and practice after school and have an increased number of hours, and they are also hungry. And I think we should solve the issue of their diet. As for the basic schools of the 25 million kuna you mentioned, which come through European funds, many schools cannot run for them for reasons because they do not have school cuisine. These funds proposed in the amendment would ensure that food is cooked for those schools that do not have any and that they are transported in order to provide a warm meal in these schools of the weaker socioeconomic situation. Therefore, you have offered only one partial solution, not a complete solution. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is that all children in the Republic of Croatia, not just certain children or part of children of a poor socioeconomic situation, therefore have equal conditions in the follow-up. So I ask that this amendment be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60697	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. This amendment did not receive the required majority of votes. I thank Secretary of State Anticic. We are now moving on to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Dear Secretary of State Majda Buric. Amendment No. 71st esteemed colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60698	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, respected MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment because the funds within division 086, the Ministry of Labour and Pension System in Chapter 08620, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office for Pensions activities on the basis of insurance, i.e. disability pensions planned in the amount of 3 billion and 689 million kuna, are sufficient for the regular payment of disability pensions in 2018. The funds in this amount of 3 billion and 689 million kuna are planned for the estimated number of disabled pensioners in 2018, with regular coordination scheduled, i.e. an increase in pensions and pension incomes by 2.1%, with the transferred pension coordination effect of 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60699	An obvious colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60700	Thank you very much. My colleague Buric, I almost feel bad that you only had to come today because of my amendment but this is such a big problem that I had to apostrophe him and warn him. Your government has raised pensions by 10%. In other words, people with pensions, 5, 6, 7 thousand kunas received 500, 600, 700 kuna higher pensions in 2018 while disabled people who went to pensions as disabled workers have an average pension of 1900 kuna. My amendment simply says that we give these people at least one hundred kuna more when we are already in charge, or not us, but the government of Andrej Plenkovic, HDZ raised pensions by 500, 600 and 700 kuna. And I see that there are some people sitting here and among you who have a view that approves of my proposal as Mr. Shucker and the other colleagues. And I hope it's not because of the party discipline because I see it in their eyes that it will be released, that it will be freed and that it will support, not funny colleagues and colleagues, people have a pension of 1900 kuna on average. Don't laugh. Don't laugh. Don't laugh. 1900 kuna, give 100 kuna to people more pensions per month, and don't buy fighter planes, crams from some sixth hand that will come here to Croatia and someone will take a good commission. [[Intruder President: Please.]] That's what I'm asking of you and I know, deep down, there are people among you who support this, and I hope that they will gather courage and vote for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60701	Let's see if they have the courage, let's vote for an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes, thanks to the state plate. We are moving on to the Ministry of Health and Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic. The 72nd Amendment is again a colleague of Gordana Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60702	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment No. 72 is not accepted. The explanation, in order to find a secret solution to airspace protection and to achieve the set objectives of protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia by the end of 2017, will be decided on the possibilities and modes of development of the capacity to protect the airspace by obtaining multi-purpose fighter aircraft. Accordingly, the proposed funds are necessary for the implementation of the above.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60703	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60704	Thank you very much. What department of defense or health, health care? What ministry are you from?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60705	Let go, don't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60706	I'm asking the basic question because I don't know the gentleman, you can help me. Which ministry is the gentleman from?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60707	I can't help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60708	You can't?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60709	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60710	You don't know either?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60711	I know, but I can't help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60712	It's already a problem because we don't know if the gentleman is authorized to refuse the amendment since he's here telling us all that planes need to be bought. [[President: A colleague of Maras is doing the right thing.]] A fellow who refers to the amendment of the Ministry of Health tells us here that we need to buy planes. ... I've seen a lot of things since HDZ, but I haven't seen this yet. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I really don't get it. Today you've had a protest of people here at Mark's square who have severely ill children. So is it a problem to raise money for 30 children, Mr. Secretary of State? Tell your minister who said that health is too expensive, that he can't treat our citizens, that no state can single out money for all its citizens, that he should be ashamed. The 30 people and their families were here today, some came to the Croatian Parliament. And you're telling me here that I need to buy planes, too, a shame. How can you not be ashamed? Look into these people's eyes and tell them that Croatia needs planes without their children having the right to receive a cure. That Croatia is too much money to allocate several million kunas each year. Shame on you and Kujundzic. Thank you very much. And I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60713	Let's vote on an amendment that didn't get government support. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 73 Clubs of Representatives of the Living Wall and Power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60714	Amendment 73 is not accepted. It's the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60715	It's obvious, my colleague Sincic, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60716	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I'm not at all satisfied with this brief explanation. The Immunological Institute destroyed the political will above all, it was not there, it is not today, and as it seems, it will not be in the future either. It's just that politics has decided that we don't need an Immunological Institute. Then I call on Minister Kujundzic, who is not here today, to say clearly, Croatians and Croats, sick and healthy, young and old, we do not need the Immunological Institute. The blood we collect we'll export out, we'll import who knows what, that we don't need an Immunological Institute as part of public health to buy at very low prices the product of the Immunological Institute. We will not, as during an epidemic, buy the same products from abroad for 20 times the price. We don't need scientific research at the Immunology Institute. We don't need anything like that. We need fighter planes. Combat planes, it's nice to have fighter planes, but Croatia doesn't need it at all not in that number and such at this time. But compared to deciding these two items that I have cited, is it more important for national security to have several fighter planes or is it more important what hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens put into their bodies on a daily basis? I think it's a very simple and clear answer to what's more important. More importantly, the health of Croatian citizens and healthy human beings and healthy citizens are worth more than hundreds of fighter planes. And on the health of citizens, there is a war and national security is safeguarded, not on fighter planes, it is only an addition to one system of national security. There is no money for the reconstruction of the Immunological Institute, obviously no one will even answer, it is a shame, the Immunological Institute has become a picture of Croatia. I demand a vote on this harmful policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60717	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. This amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 74 of the PGS and RI representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60718	Amendment number 74 is not accepted. Given that the Istrian County does not fall under the counties of the first and second groups, i.e. the development index, because it is a developed county and is expected to provide funds within the county. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Nine. The Law on Health Protection, Countys and Cities shall provide funds for investment and investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions, medical and non-medical equipment and means of transport and information of health activities in accordance with the plan and programme of health care measures and the network of public health services.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60719	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60720	Thank you very much. Well, I can't be satisfied with this explanation. So, the Houses of Health outposts of Pazin is that this House was built in 53 C.E., that it is a pavilion type and that today simply does not meet the necessary spatial and other modern standards. The form is basically very simple. If at least twenty or thirty percent of the newly created value remained where that value is created then surely such an amendment would not have to be directed towards the state budget. I repeat, with this amendment we wanted to ask for participation, so it's not the total amount, the participation, the sign of goodwill, that you appreciate those who have a lot of state budget, those who are in surplus, and that's Istria County. Therefore, in Pazin, health homes in Istria allow for the adaptation and provision of modern standards for our fellow citizens. So, I think 6 million kunas invested in the center of the Istrian County in the town of Pazin for this purpose was more than necessary, and that on your part might have been a little goodwill and consider the total need. And once again, I'm going to take a look at who's filling that state budget, where the money comes from, maybe something back there. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60721	Let's vote on an amendment that didn't get government support. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 75 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60722	The amendment is not accepted. Performing health tourism as a form of providing health services, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and medical rehabilitation procedures in tourism is a question to be addressed by the draft health care law which is in the process of making assumptions for investment investment opportunities by the founders of this health institution and in this segment of performing health activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60723	Comrade Sponza, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60724	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, this is a pure school example of bureaucratic not this narrow, this narrow response. Did anyone read this amendment we gave? Health care in the Republic of Croatia how much is minus? Eight billion kuna. This is a financial institution hospital, I cannot speak for all hospitals in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But a hospital that works positively instead of rewarding management, instead of estimating responsibility, instead of estimating excellence, like those horses, we look at it like this. We asked 20 million kunas. The reason it stands exactly, the building is dirt 20 million kuna, the hospital is on its own tomorrow in financial business because we're creating new content. I expected your resolute minister to sit with the Minister of Tourism to sit together and find a solution. But everyone's wrong, they sent you here to say and explain the amendment. I'm not gonna ask for a vote. From the above, anyone can make a mistake and I am giving you an opportunity to correct this illogicality in 2018. If we do not value responsibility and excellence in the system and do not set a fundamental social standard, then we as a society cannot move forward, so I wait for you to find a solution in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60725	Thank you. The promoter is giving up his vote, so we're going to the amendment of 76 representatives of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60726	Amendment number 76 is not accepted. To find a secret solution to the protection of airspace and to achieve the set objectives of protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. By the end of 2017, a decision will be taken on the possibilities and modalities of the development of airspace protection through the acquisition of multi-purpose combat aircraft. Accordingly, the proposed funds are necessary for the implementation of the above.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60727	It's an obvious Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60728	Thank you very much. I'm listening, but I don't believe it. So for the second time a colleague of the Ministry of Health here says that there is a need to protect the airspace as if people in Bjelovar were going to install an artificial hip, vaccinate against the flu by buying a plane from the Ministry of Health. So Kujundzic and the government recipe for the health of our citizens is we'll buy used F16 from the fifth hand. That's where we've been listening here for the second time since the Department of Health. What do people have from what you said here, what do they have? Whether the hospital in Bjelovar will have more resources, whether it will have a better service for 50 million kuna, but 350 million kuna for the planes yes. And I am giving this opportunity to the President of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Jandrokovic to point, to show that he has not forgotten his Bjelovar where he was born and where he spent the most beautiful student days, where he played, where he cheered for Bjelovar for the handball club. This is like President Grabar Kitarovic's résumé. But if that's true, I'm giving him a chance to score and show that party discipline is no more important than where you came from and whether or not he'll take advantage of it now. And once again, I recommend you don't treat our citizens' problems and solve our citizens' health problems by telling them that we're going to buy planes and that it's going to be a safe airspace. It means absolutely nothing to them. I'm asking for a vote. And all those who would like to support this amendment ask not to vote to see if this unscrupulous majority still has a majority in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60729	Comrade Maras, everything was fine. This last one wasn't right. I'm not gonna score on that one. I'm gonna score on something else. You said the president of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, at least you might know you're sitting in the Croatian Parliament. Let us now vote on an amendment that has not received government support. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We move on to the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, the respected State Secretary Margareta Majeric. The first is the 77th Amendment, respected counterpart Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60730	The amendment is not accepted. Priority activities with regard to care for older people are aimed at developing an institute outside institutional services that ensure the retention of older people in their own home, and health rehabilitation does not enter the area of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60731	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60732	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I am not asking for this amendment to build a home for the elderly and powerless because that would mean that someone had previously made the documentation, which no one had ever done. So I'm looking for a project technical documentation whose amount is actually funny compared to the whole budget. I don't know if you're familiar with the situation in Split and whether you care at all, but neither one actually justifies you. And what I want you to know is that you know and you care what happens in Split. And in Split there are 50,000 elderly people who need accommodation in a home for older and powerless, and do you know how many accommodations are available? A thousand. 50 grand, and they've got a thousand at their disposal, and you're more interested in buying a car. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60733	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We move to amendment number 70 of MPs of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60734	The amendment is not accepted. The planned resources are sufficient to implement the planned measures, taking into account the fact of the expenditure in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60735	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60736	Thank you, Mr. President. So this amendment I'm repeating from last year. Unfortunately, volunteerism in Croatia is not sufficiently developed, it is not at the level at which we would like it to be. If it is met, if the objectives with only 2 million and 426000 kunas available are met, or which will be, then this programme of encouraging volunteerism is unambitious and then we need to ask ourselves if there is more to be done. Therefore, an increase of one million kuna, so some 40 percent of what was planned would also be a symbolic step towards continuing to develop volunteerism in Croatia, which I say is still not at the level at which it should be. We have great young people who volunteer especially in the Croatian Red Cross, the Union of Scouts, etc. But we need to continue to strengthen our potential and culture of volunteering. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60737	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. This amendment has not passed. The next amendment is also the amendment of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic's number 79.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60738	The amendment is not accepted. Same explanation as last amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60739	Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60740	Thank you very much. So when we talk about young people, we need to keep in mind that young people are the most vulnerable group, that young people who should wear the development of the Republic of Croatia and those from Croatia are leaving. By developing a policy for young people and targeted strategic thinking and action to improve youth standards, meet their professional needs, the need for recreation and everything else that is important for young people, we would actually act preventively on what we always call on, which is demographics. So, keeping young people in Croatia is an absolute goal, raising funds by about half as I planned it would only help in this direction. I think there's 10 million kunas that we'll single out in youth policy more than symbolic colleagues and colleagues, and that's where we swear all the time. So that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60741	Let us also vote on this amendment that the government does not support. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move on to the 80th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60742	The amendment is not accepted. The holders of the Law on the Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family are, in accordance with their part-round work, competent national authorities, namely the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Office for Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. All implementing bodies have already provided adequate financial resources for the implementation of the law in question. The funds for activities required to increase are a framework for the implementation of some of the activities for which the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy is responsible and are aimed at financial support for the work of autonomous women's shelters for victims of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60743	Extensive colleagues Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60744	So I specifically asked 10 million kunas to be put to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence. You're saying that it should have been specifically to secure a place in women's shelters. So that should actually be expected to be the largest amount to increase. You've only increased by 50,000 kuna. So, in anticipation of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, we are, in fact, all the time, saying that we will implement without its ratification and fight domestic violence. And domestic violence is constantly increasing the number of crimes involved. So, less and less criminal charges because women end up seeing what's going on doesn't even report it. But the brutalization we witnessed yesterday and last night was that one partner killed his wife here on Treshnyve. So 300 women killed in the last 10 years. The way these women are treated and everything we've actually said that we're going to try to change with and without ratification, you've actually increased only 50,000 kuna, and that's why I think that for this item, if we all want to define ourselves against violence against women and families, we need a lot more money to secure shelters, primarily, which you said would be your concern. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60745	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to Amendment 81 of Sabina Vosovac, Bojan Glavasevic and Pedja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60746	The amendment is not accepted. The same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60747	My colleague, Mr. Glavasevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60748	Thank you, Mr. President. Which is the easy-ass barvitas you're saying, and here's the same thing as your colleague, Strenja Linic, are the same reasons. I mean how many women must still be killed or beaten, how many times do you plan to tell, and we've already told you why. So, works, not words, and what we can evaluate you for. Your actions say that you simply don't care about doing something to prevent domestic violence. So here, when we get to how much money it takes to separate something concrete can be done, something that can essentially improve life and prevent domestic violence and, say, help victims of domestic violence, we've already told you why not. So you'll find the money for a number of other things. Here we were specifically talking about planes, and we suggested that you take 23 million kunas from the plane, peeable. Because you gave a hand and a hat for everything and everything but for women. One woman was murdered yesterday, you had a chance to watch. Every time someone gets hurt I sincerely hope you remember the way you explained today why you won't do more for women victims of domestic violence. I won't tell you to be ashamed, because if you had the shame you wouldn't explain to me today why this amendment wasn't accepted. But remember next time you read something in the paper that you decided to put other priorities in front of women who were killed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60749	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now moving on to the 82nd Amendment, this is attorney Martha Luc Polance. After that, we'd take a break. We'll see, for now we have colleagues Pernar, Strenja Linic and Pusic, so I'd say after this last amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60750	The amendment is not accepted. It is not accepted since spiritual care is carried out in accordance with the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on the custody of Catholic believers members of the Armed Forces and the regular services of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60751	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60752	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My dear assistant minister, I am not satisfied with your explanation. You, in your explanation, state why you do not remove an item from the Ministry of Defence, and do not state the reasons that exist or do not exist to raise the amount of personal disability. Namely, personal disability is the only income for people with severe disabilities or other severe permanent changes in their health. It serves them to meet the basic needs of life, and the maximum amount is a thousand and 250 kuna. We are all aware of a thousand and 250 kunas that this does not satisfy any basic needs of life. And on the other hand, these people can't make any revenue because otherwise, they're going to be reduced by this embarrassingly small disability. I therefore believe that this 8 million kuna increase would be symbolic, but it would be some sign that this budget is social and that this government is also taking care of the most vulnerable part of the population. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60753	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. I thank the secretary of state. Now we're gonna take a break. So we have colleagues Pernar, a colleague of Strenja Linic and a colleague of Pusic. Is anyone else picking up? A colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60754	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HSS Club, I'm also looking for a break on health issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60755	Then we have four requests for a break. The stop will be 16 hours and 10 minutes. So the vote continues at 16 hours and 30 minutes. Please be there. It's 3:57 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60756	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,18 HOURS]] The first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60757	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the government's debt interest was 4 and a half billion kuna at the end of 2010. For 2018, this government plans to give 10.8 billion kuna for interest. That's about 9% of the state budget expenditure. Why is this item not to be touched in this budget? Because the government must not disappoint the bankers, it must not disappoint the creditors, it must not disappoint those who paintly keep them alive. In 2000, 70 billion kuna was invested in bank recovery, and sold by 7 to 10 times less. This country has been transformed into a security company of foreign banks in Croatia. And not only that, those banks that the state has rescheduled from those same banks to the state of interest, then says Minister Kujundzic says there is no money for the sick to be treated. Of course not. So there could be money for everyone when only a tenth of the budget goes to interest. That's what nobody's talking about, no one's questioning, these are just interest ladies and gentlemen, and for the principal, how much more will be returned. Minimum ladies and gentlemen, 25 billion kuna. Recently, a loan was raised for 10 and a half billion kuna highways. We all know that, i.e. Nine and a half, pardon nine and a half billion kuna. In general, this debt does not lead to borrowing, they have made a decision in the Law on the implementation of the budget that the government's debts to settle debts in highways are not recorded as sovereign debt. It's what they call a separate debt, and it's clear that the state is raising and repaying these loans. And unfortunately for us to have a slightly different policy or, different policy towards these creditors, we could have money for all the budget amendments. All amendments, any proposal that comes could go through without being taken on any item, would be for fighter planes. But unfortunately, the state has decided not to take creditors, it has decided that little will give citizens the right to take away, and that is why we have this misery and misery, misery and misery from the budget, where politics from previous years just continues. The policy that led us where? She brought us where we are, in a state without perspective, with no hope and no future. Our young people don't come from our country because the situation is bad. And why am I telling you this? So because at war times it was even worse than it is now, the wages were 100 marks, 200 as much as it was, but people weren't leaving because they had hope, they had hope for a better tomorrow. This government and this budget take our people's hopes for a better tomorrow. And because of that, people are leaving our country, many under credit pressure are also suicidal, and some of you have seen in despair who are a terrible fate. And this government can't tell us we had nothing to do with it! This government is the one who has agreed to the service, to the half-time, to manage Croatia from the outside, to not be masters of our destiny, to actually be a people without a future. It is my wish that our people will open their eyes, go to the election the first time they get to the next election and reject and condemn that and that policy. Long live Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60758	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, Mosta will speak a respected representative of Ines Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60759	I'd like to thank Mr. Chairman, a couple of MPs present here. But I have to warn you of something that happened on the sidelines of this session today and the budget debate on Mark's square. So we witnessed an earthquake picture, a sad picture of children wrapped in this cold with all the necessary medications and medical aids to pray for their lives with earthquake transparency for several hours together with their parents. For a long time, something like this has not shaken me, although I have been in contact with these children for a long time and as a neurologist, I am fully aware of what kind of disease it is, the spinal muscle dystrophy. And I realize that one of them will not have a long life span but also aware of the whole situation I have suggested one of the solutions that stood in this House today as an amendment to adopt it and which was, of course, removed from the procedure because of some technical things that are not actually true. And that's why I'm going to read it to you. So I asked for the position of particularly expensive drugs with a billion and 100 million kunas to be increased by 200 million kunas in order to form an Innovation Therapy Fund. Thus, a fund of particularly expensive medicines through it is financed by those patients who have such high costs of their treatment that definitely in another society they could not have had the chance to live. But we decided to be a social, socially sensitive solidarity society and that Fund was formed. This Fund is growing every year, this year from 900 million to a billion and 100, and that's good, because these people also deserve their chance. But there are also some patients who need a cure. Among them are children with spinal-muscular dystrophy, a medicine that is not yet on the HZZO list, but has definitely undergone rigorous procedures following extensive clinical studies and evidence that a successful and first ever invented medicine for spinal muscle dystrophy has been included by the EDA, meaning the American Medicines Agency and the European Medicines Agency. for those we didn't run too much to get to Zagreb. So now we're going to wait again a year, two, three to put on our HZZO list. We are part of the European Union. EMA put that medicine on that list. So that drug is definitely what those kids can get. Of course, not all of them are suitable. Of course, it is fully aware that for some children this medicine will not be, but parents today have prayed and said we agree to everything because this is not life for our children. So, the Innovation Therapy Fund would be for innovative therapy, those who save lives, those who aren't on the list, but it's just one override until it gets on the list. These kids can't wait. And for this reason, I would like to say that what is needed is to form this Innovation Therapy Fund in order to fully manage the entire procedure of proving and proving the need for such a medicine by the right experts in order to enable committees who know that this medicine is effective in enabling each child and before including the list of HZZs. Therefore, the establishment of this FIT Fund for Innovative Therapy would reserve funds for particularly vulnerable groups in the first place for children and young people, we would allow this Fund to be more flexible in the context of the established needs at the health centre level and combine different methods of obtaining treatment and providing treatment in the context of the European Union. We are citizens of the European Union. Our children may also be sick and parents will be in a situation that they may seek both help and out of Croatia. But if it is possible to heal within Europe, the question is, will they also ask for compensation from our HZZO? So today I have torn up this amendment and said: "I call on the Government, it doesn't matter my amendment, it's not important to amend my colleague Jovanovic who was the same in this sense, come together, come up with this fund, write down your amendment, change one of these positions, because we need to enable these children to be treated, and this is a fund that will be particularly expensive medicines for those who are not yet on the list of HZZs but who are already being used in Europe and in America." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60760	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives of the Voice and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to warn you of two topics that we have also warned our amendments to the Glass and HSU Club on the state budget. However, in this for me a little incomprehensible procedure they were expelled from the list of amendments discussed today in the Assembly. I'll finally tell you why it only occurs to me that there might be a reason that they've been expelled. Well, I'm taking this opportunity because I think it's really important that I warn them. So the first one referred to scientific recruits. The budget has drastically reduced the funding of scientific recruits and one of the arguments heard is that it is because the money has gone to pay. That's two completely different things. Science money is not just the future of our science, not just the future of our universities and scientific institutes. It's the future of our country, and maybe some will think it's too much. However, in a country like Croatia that relys largely on tourism as its important economic branch, the only thing we have a serious chance of developing both the economy and industry are high-tech industries and therefore clean industries. Without scientific recruits, therefore, without new people entering the field of science, these are the people who are the easiest to leave Croatia. They will be the easiest to get jobs, offers in scientific higher education institutions across Europe and the world. And it is our vital interest to keep them here to give them the conditions to work and rely on them as the main drivers of Croatia's development. And that's why we don't understand why these scientific money is actually being marginalized again, so the funds are being drastically reduced, and it's clearly showing that we don't want to take care of it, we don't want to take care of it. The second amendment, which was also rejected in this unusual procedure, referred to the State's Attorney's Office. The state attorney's office, which should be one of the main instruments and in the fight against organised crime and corruption, which repeatedly in the past period merely represented the fact that the existing funds are insufficient for efficient work. It also reduces funds without de facto explanations, so it's not all we've got, it's not clear why the State's Attorney's office is cutting funds. In a situation where you have an institution and you don't give it a financial opportunity to do your job, you actually have an excuse and you don't have a function. So you have an excuse that an institution exists and you have made it completely impossible for it to actually do what it should do and why it exists. And finally to say, I don't understand why these two amendments were thrown out of the ordinary procedure. The only thing I can think of is that it's claimed that the items from which the money was proposed to be taken are fixed but with such an explanation you can talk about all the items. All items can be declared fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60762	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS will speak the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60763	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the HSS Club, we also asked for a break to say something about health issues. In fact, we have repeatedly pointed out from this pay phone problems that we do not have enough doctors, that the debt problem, hospital institutions, according to the pharmaceutical industry, is not solved through the rehabilitation of general and county hospitals and we do not see a trend in how 8 billion health debts will be resolved in this budget. What health care should be, and that is primarily to be equally accessible to everyone, that every one of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the one who lives in my Drežnik and Orahovica and in Zagreb and Dubrovnik has the same chance of getting to a doctor and medicine. It was terrible today to be in Mark’s square with parents of children who are sick and who have to seek a cure for their child in this way in cold and rainy weather. The inscription “My life in a wheelchair is in your hands” or “Children are dying and young people are leaving”. All of us must and should be touched and we must urgently find a solution and there has been an opportunity today in voting this budget, to accept the amendments proposed in this regard and to ensure the means to treat these children. It is rightly proposed to set up an Innovation Medicines Fund because it is not only these 40 children who are very important and difficult to watch today, but also other children and other patients who will develop special medicines that are not yet registered in the Republic of Croatia, which exist in Europe, America, in some other markets, Croatia must be able to provide a cure for each of its inhabitants. And especially in this case, when a clear waist says that this medicine can reduce the future costs of treating this type of disease through the hospital system. I therefore appeal once again that there is more hearing in the future budget for the amendments. And we at HSS didn't write any amendments because we see that doesn't make sense. We wrote an amendment to the rebalancing, to one important thing to increase the funds for the recovery of damages from natural disasters not to 100 million kuna as planned, but to 200 because the damages are close to 3 billion in Slavonia and Croatia. And we hang on to the latest report on the business of the economy that all branches are growing, that GDP is growing in both tourism and the economy, only agriculture is stagnating, and why? Well, here's the reporter himself said it was because of the drought and there's still no idea how damage will be compensated from the drought to our agricultural producers and what's tragic is that in the 2018 budget only 20 million kuna for this purpose again. We are also talking about the need to raise our own food production, control of food quality, protect against unfair commercial practices and, on the other hand, in this 2018 budget, reduce resources for veterinary inspection. What kind of message are we sending? Do we really want to protect our producers, our people, our sick ones? Amendments of opposition or the need for increased resources to invest in science are not accepted, in experts, and we swear that only with science, profession, innovation can we raise our economy and our agriculture and health care. We see that we're not coming across support and it's insane to even write amendments when there's no hearing. We think that in this way when there is no communication between the ruling and the opposition, when the only way that through the opposition and the parents through the protests must come to the drug we have to do rebel, so we invite the citizens to rebel because in this way when there is no listening to each other, when there is no respect for the arguments, then it remains only a rebellion but it is sad that parents at a minus, in the rain they have to seek a cure for their child. It's nice that the prime minister promised a solution in two weeks, but why didn't he solve it today, but through the budget? That's the real question, and I'm asking you to think about it deeply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60764	Thank you, too. Dear MPs, honourable MPs, please take your seats because we are continuing to vote on the amendments. The next amendment is number 83, the Live Wall Representatives' Club and the SNAGA, I ask State Secretary Margaret Mađeric to explain the government's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60765	The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned are sufficient to implement the planned compensation measures in accordance with the Social Care Act, taking into account the fact of the funds spent in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60766	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60767	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state. I cannot accept your argument for a very simple reason why the United States and NATO alliances, according to official statistics, have produced enough weapons to destroy the entire planet earth nine times. And if we have enough weapons to destroy the entire planet nine times, tell me what else it is necessary to buy that anti-aircraft defense system? That we can destroy it ten times? There's plenty of guns in the world. If the guns were cut by only 5% in the world, the voice would be completely eradicated. And you keep telling us that NATO's alliance needs to be given to anti-aircraft defense for long-range artillery for planes while our people sit at the same time in the dark, many without electricity have unplugged water, not enough to heat it up, which is the worst of all, they don't even have anything to eat. Therefore, such an argument that it is better to give for mindless weapons, for threats to people and to all humanity by destroying, rather than giving to those who really need to, to those who could represent the future not only of our country but also of the whole world, is extremely senseless, inhumane and shows a complete lack of any consciousness, especially of political consciousness. Therefore, I ask you to reroute these funds that are absolutely unnecessary to both the NATO Alliance and Croatia for what will be useful and from which we will all have a more peaceful conscience, and ultimately these people whose resources will be rescheduled to a more beautiful life. I'm asking you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60768	Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We move to Amendment 84 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60769	The amendment does not accept the resources planned to achieve the planned measures to pay compensation under the Social Care Act, taking into account the fact of the funds spent in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60770	An explanation? Dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60771	Dear representatives, I would like to tell you that we have proposed that the funds for the guaranteed minimum fee be raised from 584 million to 899 million. This is an increase quite a bit, let's say significantly, and we would remove those funds from the Department of Defence's item – equipping them with a multi-purpose fighter plane. We believe that the bigger problem is the eradication of poverty in Croatia, that people don't have to dig through garbage, beg on the street, that they don't have to go to the soup kitchen, they have to go to these planes. However, since I know that whatever explanation I give rationally, you will not accept it, I will now read to you from the Bible, the Gospel of John chapter 16 – This I told you not to trip, will drive you out of the synagogue, and the time comes when everyone who kills you will think that God is doing the service. And this will do to you because they don't know the Father or me, but I told you this, when the time comes, remember this if I told you. And at first I didn't tell you this because I was with you, and now I'm going to the one who sent me. And none of you ask me where you're going? But because I have told you this, your heart is filled with sorrow. But I tell you the truth better for you that I go, for if I do not go, the comforter will not come to you. If I leave, I'll send him to you. And when he comes, He will prove to the world what is sin, and what is righteousness, and what is judgment concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. O righteousness, for I will go to my Father, and you will not see me again, O judgment; for the prince of this world is condemned. I'd still have a lot to tell you, but now you can't take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60772	What does the Bible say whether to vote or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60773	...this is a very important thing, this is a matter we can starve to solve, and as my colleague Bunjac said, if only 5% of the singles for the defense, that is, the war in the world would reduce the problem of hunger. People, please, I'm appealing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60774	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We're going to Amendment 85. Dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60775	The amendment is not accepted, the resources planned are sufficient to achieve the planned measures to pay compensation under the Social Care Act. Also taking into account the fact of the funds spent in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60776	Here's an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60777	Dear President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. Of course I'm not happy with your answer, you said that the funds are enough at the level of 2017, which means there will be no increase in the guaranteed minimum fee. And you're probably aware of how much she's worth. So, in total, if you're going to be a four-member family, that's 1,600 kuna, 800 kuna for a working member, that's a single man, for a abstention member of 480, 320 for a child up to 18 years old. So 1,600 kuna, so now you survive, 1,600 kuna. And you're defending the fact that we have planes that don't serve us anything. Is that possible? So I can't believe it because you also represented last year that we need to raise the guaranteed minimum fee, and now you don't want to respect this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60778	Are you asking for a vote? Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 86. Representative Ines Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60779	The amendment is not accepted. In the system of social care, accommodation services and organised housing in children's homes without adequate parental care shall be ensured until the 21st year of life or in foster families during schooling and after schooling if they cannot be employed for a maximum period of up to 26 years or longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60780	Here you go, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60781	... It is to stop collecting 5 times 5 kunas to make Caritas' home that life they have in which many of you and I participated some more than a month ago. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So my proposal was to provide funds for such an facility this year in the budget for the Caritas dormitory in Zagreb, this budget and the following year for Split, Osijek and Rijeka. You know very well that I am well aware of this situation and children without parental care. Three thousand children are in Croatia without adequate parental care. 800 children's homes. Two thousand and 200 of us in foster homes. But these children are in these foster families until they're 18 and in homes. Afterwards, a young man just left his life without family support, without the support of the society leaving practically on the street perhaps in a certain residential community during a certain time if the cities had heard of it and we leave them practically to manage the child themselves at 18 years of age. A very small part of them decides to study. So let’s not leave home for such children, so 150 of them each year, from foster homes, a small part goes to study. Let's encourage these kids, but let's not pick up humanitarian phones. I'm against these things collecting humanitarian phones for both medicine and these kids. Let's ensure in this budget that this house of Caritas is built by our country. If someone else is willing to be a bearer in other cities, it may be Caritas, but next year it will be Rijeka, Split and Osijek where that small part of them will study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60782	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. So let's go to amendment number 87 of the PGS and RI's PGS representatives club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60783	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for home functions are provided by the basis of a decision on minimum financial standards, criteria and criteria for decentralised financing of homes for older and powerless persons in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60784	It's an obvious colleague of Sponza's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60785	Dear Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. You've done your part of the mission. But I am convinced that you know very well that as far as decentralised means are concerned, and for the purpose of maintaining facilities related to social programs, they are simply not enough. The following would be much more understandable to me if today's state budget had reached the 100th of amendments of this kind and because of the limits of financial resources that you have within your portfolio, you said here from a certain number of amendments we have financial opportunities since decentralised funds are insufficient to finance this project and that. Next to the above mentioned we are from the IDS Club here my colleagues will later talk about giving a few amendments concerning homes for the elderly and the powerless. In particular, this amendment refers to Dom Domenico Pergulis in Rovinj, and in the context of everything, I think that we are sending a very large message to those who need us, these are our fellow citizens of the third age, and the order of the above is our duty and obligation if we really want to be a social society and the social state to show a lot more sensitivity in this matter and common forces, which from the state level, which from the county level and what with the local ones because we went with our request for co-financing where both the County and the City of Rovinj provided funds, so that I would ask that we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60786	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. So let's go to Amendment 88 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60787	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60788	Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60789	Thank you very much. Well, a similar amendment, except for the House for the Elderly in Novigrad. And as counterpart Sponza said simply that centralised funds are so insufficient that it is difficult to provide a minimum part of the technical conditions for home functioning. But what I would like to suggest, I did last year, and also the minister when she visited our county, is a fairer distribution of funds relating to pensioners who have the right to subsidized accommodation. I think the time has come to look at the existing system and to enable pensioners who really do not have enough income from their pensions or other property rights to be used and other institutions whose founders do not necessarily have to be county or state. I think that this would also create a fairer system where the state could secure a subsidy, and those pensioners who satisfy the property censorship could decide whether they want to use the subsidy in a public home or private home. Something similar to what we introduced after the functioning of children's kindergartens because we do not have enough of our own capacity, and so do parents whose children have the right to enroll are co-financed in private kindergartens. I think that this way you would introduce a much fairer system and that there would be much less public needs and amendments to invest in public homes if citizens could decide where they want to use their subsidy to which they are entitled. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60790	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 89 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60791	The amendment is not accepted, the same as for the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60792	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60793	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. As we have seen from the past course of this session that all the amendments that have come from the opposition have not been accepted and thus have shown simply that you have no hearing, and no good will, not only for these retirement homes but I would say before and for young people through education, through schools, through science. And unfortunately, we now see that there is no hearing for third - age citizens who, unfortunately, cannot help themselves. In the very name of that amendment stands Rasha, I do not know what or what is associated with Rasha? But most of those who know Rush's history associates with miners, and miners are a symbol of work. They're a symbol of hard work where these miners are right now, more of them in the rasa today, and Labin is gone, but there's a lot of retired miners, but I'm going to tell more of their widows. That hard work and that retirement home that was built in the 36th... Today it's a retirement home. [[speaking off, can't be heard]] And you said that through decentralised funds, funds are being provided for refurbishment. However, I will say that in this case the Istrian County through credit funds has provided for the restoration, expansion and raising of standards for these pensioners. However, these are insufficient and these 5 million kunas for the budget are certainly not much. I will say that even today we are witnessing that the capacities of pensioners' homes are insufficient, and that three new homes of pensioners and units of local self-government have been built in Istria County over the past 10 years, co-financed by the difference that is insufficient through HZZO. I therefore request a vote for this proposal of our amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60794	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We're going to Amendment 90 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60795	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as well as for previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60796	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60797	This is exactly what fellow Demetlika pointed out, this is an example of home for the elderly where the unit of local self-government, or the city of Buzet, will say one of the symbols of entrepreneurship in our County, independently built a home. So, the simple city has made a decision the capacities are needed, our third-aged citizens have nowhere to be located, let's build a home ourselves and have built it. The first penalty or penalty is that the home did not enter the co-financing network and that the stay of pensioners who cannot simply pay a full economic price with their small pensions except that as a unit of local self-government home they must build and subsidise. So with this amendment, we wanted to ask for at least one sign of goodwill, a statement of goodwill to those who build their own homes, who co-finance themselves the residence of third-aged citizens, who, because of their small pensions, cannot stand to reward such examples. So it's hard for them to keep it all together because simply these decentralised funds aren't enough and this amendment asked us to subsidize the House with 8 million kuna for the elderly in Buzet. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60798	Let us also vote on this amendment that has not received government support. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 91 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60799	The amendment is not accepted, the same as for the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60800	Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60801	This amendment of 3 and a half million kuna refers to the House of Elderly and Powerless Persons Alfredo Stiglic in Pula. I'll say we're aware of some pretty large waiting lists, insufficient capacity. But I also think it would be fair to compare the number of accommodation facilities that the Ministry co-finances percapita, in a particular county or a certain city, would then see if the existing system is fair, whether pensioners who, in my court and their small pensions, can not pay their stay in private countries, therefore, at a full economic price. Happiness is for those whom children can help, so they find the necessary accommodation. Therefore, I would also like to request this amendment to be a voter. And I'm going to say in the end just because this is the last amendment to our club that we wanted to show that we're thinking about the youngest, that we're thinking about third-aged citizens, that we're thinking about education, health and the economy. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60802	Let us also vote on this amendment that the government does not support. Neither did this amendment get a sufficient number of votes. Amendment number 92, MPs Marija Alfirev and Frenko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60803	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, there are problems in property legal relations related to the business space proposed by the city of Sibenik, therefore the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy solves the problem of the business space of this Social Care Centre in cooperation with the Ministry of State Property, and the necessary resources will be provided during 2018 from the income for special purposes of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy when the property and legal relations are resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60804	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60805	So I appreciate what you're saying right now, and that's why I would like to point out once again the exceptional importance of setting up and providing space for the welfare center. And you're probably aware that the center of work is currently operating on four locations, where three locations should be combined through this one space because the family center of the law should be in a separate space. I also believe that you are aware that it is necessary to resolve this in 2018 for the reason that the City of Sibenik has also announced that it will destroy the barracks because literally part of the centre means employees and an important part of it, a sensitive part of the centre, works in a hut that is designed for demolition in order to build or arrange a parking space in that place. That is why I am leaving this amendment of mine, and I am putting it to the vote because I believe and I am asking that the resources to arrange the space for Sibenik's Social Care Centre are really provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60806	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. So now let's go to Amendment 93 of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60807	The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned at the position of the Vinko Bek Centre are sufficient for the development of project technical documentation and implementation of the public procurement process, and the funds for additional investment in construction buildings will be provided from revenue for special purposes of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60808	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60809	So I asked that a million kunas be added to the Vinko Bek Centre to be the only institution that actually takes care of both diagnostics and therapy and self-porting for people who are undersighted and blind. So primarily for Kuslanov where additional investment is needed you should know that there are two boys who in one small room I don't think the minister has visited them yet where individually each book of each first-class student who is five different for each individual on... makes that book. Every book at the end costs 4000 kuna and that's the problem that's different programs. So these are the conditions that are totally inappropriate, and we, apart from moving them from Nazorov and therefore providing funds in this budget for making all the documentation to build a new building. They're in the rental now. I think it's about the need to invest in this building as well. But I would take this opportunity and say once again, you have refused completely intransparently a whole series of very important amendments. One of those is the amendment to form an Innovation Therapy Fund to stop the treatment of children and those who are ill at the level of mercy, but that those who have the chance to survive if this is scientifically proven and if this is accepted therapy that is on the list and the EDA means American and European Medicines Agency to be available to our children too because they can't wait to form. Also refused was an extremely important amendment that I wanted KBC Rebr to be equipped for a 7 and a half million kuna centre where children such as Nora Šitum would be treated for which they went outside where we could build a complete laboratory where we could completely treat such children with a completely new innovative therapy and I wanted to build on Rebra such a center. So you develop such an innovative platform for the treatment of lymphoblastic leukemia and everything that makes children die, and you shouldn't, because you can't raise money like you collected for Nora Shitum, I think we could have feelings for these kids as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60810	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I also thank the secretary of state. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now we're going to the Justice Department. With us is Secretary of State Josip Salapic. 94th Amendment of Representatives Sabina Vosovac, Bojan Glavasevic and Pedja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60811	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation. For the activities of supporting witnesses and victims of criminal offences, funds other than sources 11 are planned at the source of 41 revenues from gambling distributed under the Regulation on criteria for determining users and how to distribute part of gambling revenues for 2018 and which may be withdrawn independently of the planned amount of budget. The appropriations in the draft budget for 2018 totalled 59.93% compared to the 2017 budget, while the current donation item increased by 66.18% compared to 2017. For the activity free legal assistance funds are planned in accordance with real costs and expectations. The appropriations in the draft budget for 2018 have been increased in total by 45.45% compared to the appropriations for the 2017 budget, indicating in particular that the funds are provided for the financing of primary free legal assistance by this budget increased by 85.71%.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60812	Obviously, here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60813	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, dear colleague. I'll say something in general first. When we discussed on the Committee on Justice the proposal for a State Budget for 2018, I pointed to the fact that despite the overall increase in the budget for the judiciary, it was reduced. But be careful not only that the judiciary budget is reduced in nominal terms. If we include inflation, the judiciary budget is reduced by the equivalent of 30 million kuna compared to the previous years. So, these claims of your increase simply don't hold water. However, all that your claims stand, this amendment is not aimed at those obligations that the Republic of Croatia has on the basis of so far existing obligations, the larger this amendment refers to the expected and we hope for a very soon ratification of the Istanbul Convention. This Convention contains certain elements which will have to be reflected on these items. One is supporting witnesses and victims of criminal acts, and the other is, of course, closely related to this and free legal aid. Because our wish, our goal when we submitted this amendment, was that once we finally ratified the Istanbul Convention, it did not remain a dead letter on paper, but that the Republic of Croatia would begin to meet those obligations that would result from the ratification of this important document. However, here I will take the opportunity to point to one of the reasons why Croatia does not want to ratify it, as I speak about the Istanbul Convention. If you've been following the forwards of those who object, what bothers them the most? Reference to the term ‘rod’ in that Convention. And today we have passed a law in which not only in reason but in the normative part, it is said that these terms promote gender equality. It is the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, its Article 2. – gender equality. For this reason, let's ratify the Istanbul Convention, let's not let what we don't mind in one law be our obstacle in another law. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60814	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We move on to amendment 95 of respected counterpart Arsen Bauk, which will have a dozen amendments now in the next few minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60815	Amendment 95 is not accepted for the same reason as the previous amendment 94, adding that the funds in the Ministry of Justice's portfolio are reductions of 25 million kuna, but due to the completion of IPA projects. We have completed IPA projects in 2017. Therefore, in 2018 it is smaller for the amount of funds we used by 2017, so overall it seems that the budget is smaller, but realistically it is not smaller than 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60816	Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60817	Thank you, Mr. President. So the next 10 amendments are equal in their content only to the difference in amount, and that's why I filed them so that I can talk for 20 minutes in an explanation about why the Istanbul Convention should be ratified. Here's a colleague to help out a little bit. Empty red shoes are usually a symbol of protesting those who protest because the Convention has not been ratified. And you, Mr. President, just stop me, and I'll continue on the next amendment. The Istanbul Convention, written in simple language, is exclusively focused on the birth conditions of violence against women, only because they are women. The lawyer for gender equality pointed out. She stated that in 47 European countries, the Convention was signed by 45 and ratified by 23 states. Turkey's first, then Malta, which is next to Poland and Ireland, one of the three countries that prohibits abortion. The focus of the Convention is primarily the overall protection of desires from all forms of violence, not only sexual and physical but also genital mutilation, forced marriages, the trafficking of girls and women, and the legislative part for the resolution of security mechanisms such as free legal assistance, shelters, education of professionals. The Ombudsman points out that she is written for the leprechaun of states that have multicultural and multi-confensation communities where women are expected to care for their family, give birth, care for their homes and children, while men are fostering their families, and in such traditional roles, a more likely blow will occur when due to uncooked or under-cooked lunch is expected. Violence against women in 75 to 95% of cases is born-in conditioned by the male population over the female population. That's the statistics we need to start with. It is important for Croatia to ratify the Istanbul Convention. Croatia has not yet ratified the Istanbul Convention, and according to the Ombudsman, the proposal for a ratification law has not yet been sent to the parliamentary procedure otherwise has SDP representatives in the procedure. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60818	Time. You're not looking? Okay. Then let's go on, sorry I ran away. So he's retired, you're giving up the vote. We're going to Amendment 96 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60819	We do not accept the amendment for the same reason as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60820	I'm not asking for a vote, because this is the smallest amount I've asked for. I'll look for the last one when it's the biggest one, there's no need. Therefore, it is extremely important to ratify the Convention because all indicators say that prevention, sanctioning and giving a clear message that this is socially unacceptable behavior is necessary for the treatment of domestic violence. It is necessary to find better mechanisms to protect victims who suffer violence because in 40% of cases they return to the perpetrators. Thirty percent go to their primary families, and a very small number can remain economically independent, find or keep the job. The lawyer says she does not want to believe that Croatia will not ratify the Convention regardless of public calling, lobbying, or advocacy or mentioning the financial opportunities of the state, which is what they found out in informal talks was the reason for non-ratification in our time. And much poorer countries in our environment have ratified and are trying to reach the standards it imposes. She noted, adding that the state budget did not place it as a priority, and is extremely few counties on the subject, for example for shelters less than 1% of victims. She said that a small number of MPs signed a list of ratifications during the protest, while publicly declared views on gender ideology or on how the Convention is a conspiracy to family or traditional values. If we return to the thesis that there is something internal, speaking of relations in HDZ, we place the whole public social problem of domestic violence among four walls and say that it is a private matter. We've been fighting for 17 years that it's a public matter and the police and the judiciary, the welfare center, that it's not a private matter that needs to be covered up, it's a complete system that has to work. We have the system of penalization extremely mild. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60821	Okay. You're giving up the vote for the 96th Amendment. We're going to 97 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60822	It's not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60823	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60824	All that I have stated in the light of the previous amendment, the system of penalization is extremely mild for us. Since the first sentences are imposed, and then fines, and only in third place is the sentence of prison and only 10 to 15% of the safeguards are pronounced even though the police are suggesting a lot of them. The most effective measures to distance the perpetrator from the joint household are at least pronounced in about 9% of cases. We should definitely work on the education of professionals and give a public message to the perpetrators, and encourage the victim to step out of a post as a prosecutor, this year there were 16 deaths of women killed by those close to men, and last year 20. This is from 2 days ago, otherwise 17 seems to me since last night, she warned that women are discriminated against on the labour market in Croatia, working in unfavourable conditions and given motherhood they get fired. They are assigned to lower jobs or receive lower wages which do not contribute to demographic growth. We ask that cases like this be processed as a matter of priority. The most developed countries with a high fertility rate have managed to make women give birth to children and remain employed with various benefits, modalities and labour flexibility. This is the part about the D.A.'s office. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60825	You're giving up the vote and this amendment. We're going to the 98th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60826	It's not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60827	Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60828	Now goes the part about manipulations from radically right associations that can be called religious fundamentalists, and part of them are Grodd, Vigilaire, the Centre for Cultural Reconstruction recently joined in the Citizens' Initiative of Truth about Istanbul. About the manipulations of the content of the Convention on International Day against Violence against Women, the Ombudsman spoke of gender equality as saying that the Convention and its content in this manipulation of information are mixed with pedophilia, homosexuality and transvestitism would be said to be a hybrid war. That the citizens' initiative the truth about Istanbul's manipulation is clearly read what they write about the Convention on their website and compare it with what it says in the Convention itself. So, as part of the text on the Convention, a section called Extermination of the tradition of family values was written. In that section, it states that the Convention obliges the parties to commit to the culture of customs, religion and tradition to the extent to which, unlike the principle of interpretation of this Convention, the objectives of this Convention are to be fulfilled by Article 12(5) of this Convention. The question is why followers are simply not quoted as saying a controversial item, and when reading the item, it is clear that it has nothing to do with what they are complaining about. In order not to think that the author of the text joins manipulations, the simplest supposed disputed item will quote: "The parties will ensure that culture, customs, religion, tradition or so on. the honor shall not be regarded as a justification for any act of violence covered by the scope of this Convention. In other words, it does not require subjugation of religion, culture, customs and traditions to the Convention, but is required that this cannot be an excuse for, for example, beating women." And it is really not clear what is controversial about this, unless someone is a proponent of such practices. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60829	Let's move on. So this amendment has been withdrawn as well. We're going to Amendment 99 to Agent Arsen Bauk again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60830	It's not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60831	Thank you. Mr. President, I'll be in agreement if the Secretary of State doesn't have to stand 10 times not accepted for a reason. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60832	We'll do everything right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60833	The initiative is also controversial in paragraph 1 of the 12th article because it requires the eradication of all prejudices, customs and traditions based on stereotypes of women and men. They also complain that the Convention does not define stereotype roles, that different countries and social groups widely interpret them to this extent that some of them and basic family roles such as motherhood and paternity call them undesirable stereotypes. They also fear that ratification could be stegmatized as an outdated and undesirable tradition based on stereotype birth roles. A man-woman picture of humanity, family and marriage that is consistent with the nature of men and women and as such supported by world cultures and all major religions. Where they found this in that paragraph is indeed not clear. This paragraph reads: “The parties will take the necessary measures to promote changes in the social and cultural patterns of behaviour of women and men with the aim of eradicating prejudice and customs, traditions and all other practices in practice based on the idea of less value of women or the stereotype roles of women and men.” We do not want to say that all major religions are based on the idea of less value of women? In the initiative, the truth about Istanbul is also feared that at all levels of education, an ideology would be imposed on why the Convention requires the parties of the signatories to include the issue of gender and non-stereotype gender roles in the regular curricula and programme. In fact, the content of the alleged disputed Article 14(1) is very different. It states that parties will take when appropriate steps are taken to ensure that teaching materials on issues such as equality between women and men do not stereotype gender roles, mutual respect, non-violent conflict resolution in personal relations, gender-founded violence against women and the right to personal integrity tailored to student development. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60834	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. Then you're giving up the vote. [[I'll continue next.]] We're going to the 100th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60835	It's not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60837	The resolution of conflicts in personal relations, gender-founded violence against women and the right to personal integrity adapted to student development skills included in the regular curricula and programme and at all levels of education. And the next move has affected the citizens' initiative of truth about Istanbul. It provides that the parties will take the necessary steps to promote the principles referred to in paragraph 1 both in informal education environments and in sports, cultural environments and leisure environments and in the media. From this they read the narrowing of pluralism and the spread of gender ideology. So by spreading something, something's narrowing down. The importance of the Convention is at 6 points. First, it determines the financial responsibility of the state to victims of violence if the state has not installed all protection mechanisms. Secondly, if a woman asked for police help, and the police didn't come or the perpetrator wasn't sanctioned in time, and the woman suffered violence can sue a bully but the state committed a failure. Third, the introduction of criminal acts such as genital mutilation into the Penal Code. Fourthly, the state needs to arrange a sufficient number of shelters with a sufficient number of places for victims of violence. Fifthly, the state needs to assist twenty-four-square telephone lines on which victims can answer for help and protection. And sixth, the state needs to help provide professional assistance to victims of sexual violence. Since I read the text of one author with his permission not to be declared a plagiarist, I am not asking for a vote on this amendment either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60838	You're giving up the vote. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60839	Article 236 demeaning MPs. For example, for example, I am beinglittled by MP Bauk because he reads us things that some agree with, for example, I do not ask for our vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60840	Well, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it's not an article 236, it's a 238, so let's move on. 101st Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60841	It's not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60842	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, in the procedure, the amendment concerns the increase of funds as well as the previous few. On the item ‘Providing witnesses and victims of criminal offences and free legal aid’ in the amounts already stated. Given that in the procedure, the final draft of the law for which the Parliament has decided to follow the urgent procedure of the SDP Representatives' Club, I appeal to you that this bill should come to the plenary session as soon as possible with the uncertainty of what the result will be. Given that my colleague Radin would not again raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and since it is clear to me that political relations are not possible and that it has never happened before to accept the opposition's amendment, I call on all representatives of the ruling majority who are in favour of ratification of the Istanbul Convention to be abstentioned on this amendment, and all those who are, who want to be ratified and not in the ruling majority to be in favour and to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60843	Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60844	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Radin injured Article 238 in his earlier presentation and insulted all MPs in this House especially the opposition and Croatian citizens when he said that we offended him because we did not allow him to vote for what he thought was right. It can be fought every day for what is right by conditions for the coalition to accept Istanbul, in power to accept the Istanbul Convention and otherwise withdraw its support for the ruling coalition. How it doesn't work, so this was what it was called. The violation of the Rules of Procedure with the figure in Mr. Radin's pocket because he can force the HDZ coalition to adopt it as well as other minority representatives but unfortunately does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60845	It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Amendment 102 of Agent Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60846	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60847	We have three more amendments. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say that I am surprised by the result of the previous vote since a year ago the prime minister announced that the parliament will ratify the Istanbul Convention, that now his party's representatives are voting against ratification even though they can symbolically be abstentioned by the amendment. The government won't fall apart, the budget won't, the planes will continue to fly. So I don't see any reason for that. So, obviously, the story of the Istanbul Convention is the internal matter of the HDZ and the inability to reach some kind of party consensus about it. Of course, we can discuss it now. I do not want to mention the family situations of prominent members and officials of the Croatian Democratic Community, although it is clear that everyone is concerned. But obviously that's not an accident. Therefore, Mr. President, I am not asking for a vote on Amendment 102 and I am withdrawing amendments 103 and 104. I think we said everything we wanted to say, that everything was clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60848	Thank you. So you withdraw Amendments 102, 103 and 104. Comrade Maras, what's the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60849	Mr. President, I noticed that Mr. Škoric, the HDZ representative has repeatedly raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so that you do not give him your word. I would ask you to give the man your word, for he has raised two, three times to hear what the Rules of Procedure was hurt in. You can't wave your hand and talk, come on, come on. It is still a representative in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60850	Comrade Maras, a colleague of Škorić, gave up his request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm giving you a warning now. Next time you'll be speechless, I'm just saying. The 105th Amendment of MPs Peđa Grbin and Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60851	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation. The proposal for a budget for these purposes for 2018 has been planned through an allocation of resources under the development and maintenance activities of the judicial information system, and in the context of the activities of the competent budgetary users of the courts, and all in accordance with the planned activities in 2018. It is also possible to co-finance the procedures for the establishment, renewal and addition of land books under the Law on Land Books from the budget of units of local self-government, and no additional funding proposed through this amendment is necessary for these purposes in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60852	An obvious colleague of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60853	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague. You said before that the reduction in the Justice Department's position is a direct consequence of the fact that 25 million kunas will be less withdrawn from the position of IPA funds, and now I'm going to ask you about who? Is the situation in the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia so good that our competent authorities during 2016 and 2017 were unable to prepare our judicial system to withdraw more funds from European funds for these needs that are not yet available? From the amendments I submitted from his explanation, the following is visible, in the area of land books, in the only two places where land books are mentioned in the budget, so in the only two places we have a sensitive reduction. In one place, the amount is reduced from 27 million to 6 million kuna, 27 million to 6. In the second place, the amount provided for in the budget is reduced from 20 million kuna to 13 million kuna. So we have a reduction of 28 million kuna in the land book item. If we compare this to what you just said about the amount of 25 million kuna that Croatia is less withdrawing from the IPA funds, it is clear that we are not able to provide sufficient resources from the RS budget at all to ensure quality work of land books. You're a lawyer just like me, you have the same experience as me, let's be honest, if the situation in the land books in the Republic of Croatia is so good that it doesn't need to provide additional funds in the budget, but we're providing 28 million kunas less than last year. Of course I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60854	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We now move on to the 106th Amendment of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club and then we vote on the budget, and then on the water, road, etc. So please let us be here now. So this is the 106th Amendment. Here you go, Secretary of State, then you'll be shown by colleagues from the club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60855	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for activities relating to regular operations under the competence of the USKOK shall be planned in accordance with their request in 2018 and shall be higher by 9% compared to 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60856	Here's your colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60857	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I am not satisfied with this explanation, if you look at the state budget for the previous years of implementation 2016, 2017, if you are looking at 2018, look at the projections for 2019, 2020. you will see that not only for USKOK but also for state attorneys almost in a million is the amount for their work. We know from the state's attorney general's report that these funds are insufficient. There is a cry for means of transport, for office spaces, for ordinary material needs, of course there is always a problem of going to the private sector because of higher wages. Why in the name of the club did I suggest rerouting the funds from the point of arbitration of the INA-MOL? It was precisely because the Croatian judiciary worked on time 2009, 2010, etc. that in time, Mr Ivo Sanader, the president of HDZ, was once sanctioned, should never give so much money for this kind of arbitration. Ironically, as much as we give for the BOOK that deals not only with INA-MOL but should deal with a whole series of cases of organised crime of systemic corruption, we give so much to just one case of arbitration or miss sanctioning. Therefore, if we give one billion in the judiciary to sanction organised crime we will save directly, which is indirectly multiple. This is one principle that the Croatian state unfortunately does not follow, but it does not understand, although it is clear to everyone that it is done on purpose, that there is no interest or political will to sanction crime in this country and its consequences will only be metastasized. More money for the judiciary. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60858	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. I thank the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to vote on the proposal for a state budget on the basis of Article 91. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption of the state budget requires a majority of all MPs, therefore 76 votes. I am voting on the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and the projection for 2019 and 2020. Please, let's vote. I note that the majority of the 79 votes in favour and 34 votes against the adoption of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and the projection for 2019 and 2020, together with the amendments adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the proposals for the 2018 financial plans and projections for 2019 and 2020. First, I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2018 and the projection for 2019 and 2020. Please, let's vote. I find that with 78 votes for, 33 against the Decision on granting consent to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2018 and the projection for 2019 and 2020. We will now vote on the amendments tabled on the proposal of the Croatian Roads Finance Plan for 2018 and the projection for 2019 and 2020. Please, colleagues and colleagues. We will decide only on amendments submitted under the Budget Act. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. On behalf of the Government, there will be a colleague of Minister Oleg Butkovic with us, so please state the 107th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60859	The amendment is not accepted. The Croatian Roads financial plan for 2018 and projection for 2019 and 2020 was based on guidelines from the Ministry of Finance within the financial limits set. The objectives for the four-year period are based on the Transport Development Strategy and the Government's Public Road Construction and Maintenance Programme 2017-2020. The reduction of expenditure on A107 activities is not accepted for the reason that the reduced co-financing of ZUC in the period from the previous year led to the increased decline of county and local roads in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60860	It's obvious, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60861	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, building a merger from the highway to Sinj would be significant and this is promised and we already have some documentation, the selection has been carried out for the selection study, so I believe that these funds amounting to 4 million kuna for the completion of the documentation that has been promised to the Cetina region for years. However, the fact is that the only choices for the Days of the Alks and the Great Lady are coming to the Cetinski region, you are well promising what you need to avoid, you are cheating on that already depraved people because it is amazing that Sinj and the Cetin region have no connection on the highway that passes 20km from the centre of Sinj, which would mean a lot for the development of the Cetin region, because it would make the accessible and economic zone of Kukuzovac, and thus, it would be closer to the suburbs of Split itself, but with this fast road they would be connected with Split. I ask you once again from the 9th, 10th constituency, and I believe that a colleague from Trill will vote on the rest of Mr. Sanader, all of you who come from these places, that this time you will vote for Sinj's trip with the highway. Is it in vain that this road is built if the Dalmatian Zagora is isolated? So what was the goal of the highway, to get even more around us than it was before. Now absolutely the entire Dalmatian Zagora is isolated ion is a blind hose by building the highway, instead of the highway being used for the development and survival of these people in the hinterland of Split. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60862	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We're going to the 108th Amendment of the same agent as Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60863	The amendment is not accepted. The financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2018 and the projection for 2019 and 2020 was established by the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance within the financial limits set. The objectives for the four-year period are based on the Transport Development Strategy and the Government's Public Road Construction and Maintenance Programme 2017-2020. Croatian roads are in the phase of designing the fast road section Sibenik-Drniš-Knin. The reduction in expenditure on A107 activities is not accepted because the reduced co-financing of ZUC in 2013 compared to previous years led to the increased decline of county and local roads. Most of the county road administrations do not have enough own revenue to cover expenditure in accordance with defined maintenance standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60864	It's obvious, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60865	Thank you very much. These 4 million kunas would be for documentation of Knin's compound on the highway which has also remained essentially isolated by building highways and which is unfortunate that the city that is symbolic Knin, where we all come for the Day of Storms from which our young people are moving more and more, that only when you visit it on August 5th then praises about Knin. I've lived and worked in this town for 13 years and I know the problems of Knin and the backdrops of that neighborhood, to move from year to year more and more. Well, that fell to a few thousand people living in Knin. If our interest is common, then this 4 million kuna take off the ŽUC which certainly selectively pave before the elections, chasing trucks cannot pass from them, please whom should be paved for a vote. This is smart, strategic, planned would be the construction and merger of the royal city of Knin, the Croatian city a merger on the highway. And it's embarrassing, even if this isn't supported, that you come every year to Knin where there's been a release, where it was a symbol of the liberation of the Republic of Croatia and indeed this city, the royal city deserves this merger. I demand a vote, and I mainly expect Miro Kovac to vote for it in the 9th election unit, Grozdana Peric, gentleman... all of you from the 9th constituency, Mr Zekanovic, I expect you all to vote. I beg you for the royal city of Knin, which was released in 095, which is a symbol of the liberation of the Republic of Serbia from the great aggression. Once again I ask you all to vote whether it wasn't just enough to come to Knin during the celebration of the glorious Liberation of Operation Storm. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60866	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. So let's go to Amendment No 109. The same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60867	The amendment is not accepted. The financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2018 and the projection for 2019 and 2020 was established by the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance within the financial limits set. The objectives for the four-year period are based on the Transport Development Strategy and the government's Public Road Construction and Maintenance Programme for 2017 to 2020. The Imotski-Zagvozd project – the BiH border is highlighted as part of the cross-border integration programme of the Republic of Croatia and will develop all the necessary project documentation in the next programming period of the Croatian road, and the project will be applied to co-finance EU funds in the construction phase. It is also not acceptable to reduce expenditure on A107 activities for the reason that the reduced co-financing of the County Road Administrations in the period from 2013 to the previous year led to the increased decline of the county and local roads in the Republic of Croatia. Most of the County Road Administrations do not have sufficient own revenues to cover expenditure according to defined maintenance standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60868	It's obvious, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60869	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers regrettably, the government has rejected the imotic end of this amendment of four million kunas to build documentation for the merger of the Imot region on the highway. I repeat again as the previous cities of the Dalmatian Zagora highway instead of the development of these areas, it essentially bypassed these areas and slowed down the development of these areas and in difficult problems anyway. Well, a few days ago, people from Imotsky came to support this amendment for documentation, to produce 4 million kuna files. Is that what the land of property deserves? Do people who emigrate deserve it? Do people deserve to survive in these areas? And it's a demographic measure. Traffic, connection on the highway from Imotsky, Zagvozd on the highway. Well, those are empty places. And I really expect from my colleague Babic, who is close to the bottom, from colleagues Bačić, from Putica and all of you from the 10th electoral unit to support at least you in this amendment. It's an empty city, property forgotten by all governments. No one represented the property that was here. Many of them did not represent it. People say that to me. The development of stopping the imothic entire hinterland of the Dalmatian Zagora. I ask you that the highway in which billions were invested be not the road that bypassed those parts, but that it be a development road, that it be a link, not a section of the Dalmatian Zagora, from which people move away from, and that national security is at risk. Because you've got people moving to Herzegovina, too. This would be a compound that also gave the development of Herzegovina, the part where the majority people of Croatia live. He would approach Herzegovina, which Mr. Brkic knows, and I believe he will vote for this amendment. I believe in that neighborhood that gave a great deal of pain in the Homeland War. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60870	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. My colleagues and colleagues, with 74 votes against this amendment, have not passed, so we are going to the 110 amendments also to MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60871	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60872	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60873	I would once again warn of the importance of highways and highway connections. Once again, I warn you that the Drain End is going through the same situation as it is right now. And indeed, the documentation for Drnish is very important. The area has been forgotten, the area is evicting, the war ended, and I expect another bar from colleagues from the county to support the documentation for drawing up the plan documentation to Drnis a merger on the highway. I once again ask you for an empty end, which was devastated by war, which was under a large-serb boot, which has large evictions. It's just a demographic crash of the city and the end. Well, here's Mr. Kovac at the prosciutto fair. The prosciutto was great. But please, Mr. Kovac, because you were on that list and everyone who was in the ninth constituency vote for this document please, because it is very important that we make the documentation on the highway to Drnis. I expect it from everyone, waiting for the people. It's the least important to me. Of you, at least, who were in the 9th constituency so I wouldn't list you as Mr. Sanader, Mr. Šipić, at least you, Zekanovic, Grozdana Peric. I can see that some of them are hiding, that they've bent their heads, so I won't call them. Please, because of Drnish and the Drnisian end, it is not enough to come to the prosciutto fair because of the development of this area please vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60874	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that most of the votes, that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60875	Thank you, Mr. President. It means Article 238. Col. Bulj's Rules of Procedure has been calling for me and his colleagues for the second time, warmed up for the post of Minister Butkovic, performing as minister. That's positive. There's a lot more, a lot of time to go through for you, Mr. Bull, to be Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Don't get too involved with us here, we work at the 9th constituency, we work at the 10th constituency. Here's my colleague Babic. It's a road from the Studenac towards the Ricics. I personally went to Promina, talked to the mayor of the municipality and about these projects. So don't put yourself here. I apologize, Mr. Bully, as the only man who cares about the interests of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60876	Thank you very much. I find there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's the way my colleague Bully works. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... So, there's 1 minute to hurt the Rules of Procedure, I give or don't give. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not when I give him, when I say he's not a subordinate to the Rules of Procedure, you don't need any extras. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah every time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here I am also speaking to my colleagues, Kovac, based on the recommendation of my colleague, Grmoja, to give a warning. So let's move on, Comrade Bull, please no need, let's go to these, is, 111 is the amendment to the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60877	The amendment is not accepted, 111, a little bit I'll, I'll... The construction of a project documentation for the construction of connecting roads, A1 D8 Ravča Drvenik, is based on the agreement between Croatian roads and Croatian highways in the jurisdiction of Croatian highways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Based on this agreement, it is defined that Croatian highways will produce all project documentation, and Croatian roads will take over the project after the completion of all the activities carried out by the Croatian highways. The same is in line with the relevant ministry for reasons of strategic importance of the project, and the construction phase will be developed in accordance with EU fund building rules and for reasons of applying the same project for the possibility of obtaining co-financing from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60878	It's an obvious colleague of Bulja's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60879	A colleague of Butkovic can see that you are Mr. Bačić's successor, who in 2009 opened this time of election campaigns from... up to three meters and now that's hanging one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] i.e. one blind road, where then the President of the Parliament, Mr. and you lied to the people of Vrgorec, the hinterland,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the end from where Mr. Miljan Brkic was also connected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That would be a closer line with Hvar, to... where the Dalmatian Burn would be with the islands, and that would be a fantastic development of Herzegovina and the Vrgorak region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You are witnesses of it, that it has been cleared and port Split. Because from Hvar to the coast would be about 20 minutes. This is a lot more time. However, the fact is that you lied to the Vvorak people, that you opened that road, was 10 years old, and you didn't move out of place. And that documentation has already been made, the mayors have signed many, not only all parties and HDZ and SDP mayors, independent, all signed, that this project is a key development project, with documentation that has gone high, far away. It means 4 million kuna for the development of Vrgorak region and Herzegovina. Well, I can't believe you won't vote. Well, I can't believe you made a promise to Mr. Bacic and that in 2009, you officially opened up as Minister of Transport. Are you going to open the foundation stone again? There's enough rocks. We need to build Mr. Butkovic down there, build. Don't you... the cornerstone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have promises too much in the Dalmatian Zagora. We've had enough of your lies and deceptions. Parliamentarians, please vote for this amendment, mostly you from the Dalmatian Zagora and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60880	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Found that the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We've got an injury to the Businessman, a colleague of Bacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60881	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 was injured because my colleague Bulj demeans me and the other MPs. My colleague Bulj doesn't tell the truth on the way, he's not telling the truth. Namely, if he calls me out, I've opened up the tunnel work to Drvenik. Then you should be grateful I brought the highway to Vrgorec. You should be grateful if I'm the one who opened the works. On the other hand, I call on my colleagues Bulja and my colleagues from Mosto to support this plan of Croatian roads, as they will thus support the construction of the Pelješki Bridge. So by voting against this financial plan of the Croatian Roads, you vote against the construction of the Peljega Bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60882	Comrade Bačić, you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure and I give you a warning. Let's move on, number 112, dear representative Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60883	The amendment is not accepted. The financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2018 with projections for 2019 and 2020 was based on guidelines from the Ministry of Finance within the financial limits set. The objectives for the 4th year are based on the transport development strategy, and the Government's programme is integrated, public road maintenance for 2017-2020. The reduction of expenditure on A107 activities is not accepted for the reason that the reduced co-financing of the county road administrations in the period from 2013 to the previous year led to the increased decline of the county and local roads in the Republic of Croatia. Most of the county road administrations, there are insufficient own revenues, which would cover expenditure according to defined maintenance standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60884	Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60885	Comrade Butkovic, you are saying that you are having a problem, which cannot be approved by reducing the items from the county administration, if I may understand. But it's no problem for you, which I could see on the new budget, to raise the loans. If I can remember correctly, that's not a problem for you. So why don't you help others? On the other hand, I have to remind you, you refused the bridge in order to distinguish itself, i.e. make a better transition, because you made a bad border crossing, and you eventually refused, and now we're looking for a merger on the highway, because it's 10 km away from Nervetva Valley, for the reason that the state road that passes to the highway inhabited area, because we don't have an adequate border crossing because you haven't allowed us an adequate border crossing. Well, here's the thing. I have one more thing to say. HDZ county council members from Metkovic voted two, three months ago in the County Assembly against their own city. So I'm asking the MPs of Parliament I don't know what Mr. Bulj is belittled in because he calls you by your name because you come from that constituency. Vote for developing, because election units, vote for the people who gave you confidence. Besides, I have to point out, so here's the vote for your HDZ mayor. He boasts at Metkovic by vertical. So you humiliate him. Now, from the amendment to the amendment, you're saying that this vertical isn't worth it. Come on, don't embarrass the man, please. Help him! Let's show that these verticals are worth it, show that you care about your city.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60886	Thank you. Time! You want a vote? A vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We're going to the 113th Amendment of Representative God Petrova.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60887	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same reasoning as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60888	Feel free to, uh, show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60889	I don't know if you remember, but for a date on the highway and this joint road Ravce – Drvenik 20 and some mayors, including your mayors, including SDP's independent mayors, including the Split-Dalmatia Mayor if I can remember well he is HDZ Mayor, including Dubrovnik-Neretva Mayor if I can remember well and he's HDZ signed a memorandum for this. And everything you've been asked to continue designing. Well, you don't have that kind of money, do you? Well, you don't really forget that place that much. And for a reason he calls you Miro Bulj for a reason. Today you mention that the problem of the Most is the Pelesian. Well, you've been lying for ten years. I mean, have you opened it three times already? You've opened it three times. Now something's stuck again, and now you're going to have a problem with MOST. For a promise, for a stone promise. And if you don't respect the MPs, if you don't respect the citizens who trusted you, if you don't respect it, I ask you to respect at least your captains, at least yours. A sin of silence at a time when you need to protest spells cowardly of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60890	Voting? You have to say you want a vote. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so let's go to Amendment 114. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60891	The financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2018 with projections for 2019 and 2020, based on guidelines from the Ministry of Finance within the financial limits set and related to the objectives for the four-year period based on the Transport Development Strategy, and the Government’s Public Road Construction and Maintenance Programme for 2017 to 2020. Based on this Croatian road d.o.o. are in the phase of designing the shares of the state road D10 Križevci – Kloštar Vojakovici.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60892	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60893	Your Honor, I'd really like to ask you here. I can't believe you're refusing all the amendments. So remember if there is already some reason why you reject Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Split-Dalmatia County. Well, then accept at least other areas. Construction of a connecting road in Gradec – Križevci area. She'd unload transit, she'd boost the entrepreneurial zone. Here, that's really not a problem for you. The road is 2,300 meters, so it's not much. So help those areas. Please, if you can't do it now, so do it in rebalancing, do it in the next budget, but do it. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60894	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to Amendment 115. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60895	The amendment is not accepted. The financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2018 with projections for 2019 and 2020 was based on guidelines from the Ministry of Finance within the financial limits set. The reduction of expenditure on A107 activities is not accepted for the reason that the reduced co-financing of the County Road Administrations in the period from 2013 to the previous year led to the increased decline of the county and local roads in the Republic of Croatia. Most of the County Road Administrations do not have sufficient own revenues to cover expenditure according to defined maintenance standards. The funds provided for within the A107 activity will also be used for the needs of intervention on county and local roads resulting from insufficient investment in previous years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60896	Obviously, here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60897	Because you call me if I know where the road is, and now you're pretending you don't know. You probably have a syncope. I know all the roads very well, especially the ones I explain. And besides, I have to tell you, unlike the HDZ MPs, especially unfortunately, and the chiefs at the same time who are obviously more important to the party than the citizens, so they can't squeeze green here, it's an honor for you, then I'll warn you, even if you don't live in that area. As for this amendment, the Upper River municipality, do you remember where she is? Do you remember which way? Along the road, next to the ministry road there is a primary school, dental clinic, veterinary clinic, medical family medicine, municipality. 2010. HAC made the project documentation. Building a foothold because of all this I have stated is extremely necessary. The reconstruction of this road section is also expected. I would pray really like this already and now you can't do it, think about it, in some way include it is important and for the safety of all those pedestrians because all these listed objects are located in an extremely dense traffic area. Thank you, and I'd like you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60898	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment was not accepted, it did not receive a sufficient number of votes. We are going to the 116th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60899	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60900	It becomes an integral part of the decision. The 117th Amendment of Representatives Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60901	The amendment is not accepted. By accepting amendments number 116 of the Croatian People's Party's Representatives' Club, the Liberal Democrats will increase the activity of the ka2013 resolution of the 7 million kuna slide.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60903	Dear Ministers here can say that the problem of the ice-skating area that exists primarily in northern Croatia is extremely large. The funds you've actually approved through the previous amendment are one step ahead, but it's definitely too small. Ensuring only 7 and a half million kunas in this item, another 2 and a half million kunas on the item at the Environmental Protection Fund is definitely too little, which is why only in Krapina-Zagorje County is still for resuscitating slides on unclassified roads, on residential buildings, on county roads of around 70 million kuna. So at this rate, it's very easy to figure out how much more we're going to need to resuscitate those slides. I'm sure he'll turn up to be sad and new. For 10 years, our citizens can't wait that long. I am aware that I cannot even meet the requirements that the Croatian People's Party had in the budget for the last year and they were even 40 million kunas have now managed to fight only 7 and a half million kuna. I honestly expected a lot, a lot more. Me and my colleague Siniša Hajdaš Doncic have proposed at least 10 million kunas, so some increase because I think it deserves primarily northern Croatia, which was extremely affected by the slides there two, three years ago. It doesn't matter, but come on, it's less intensity now. And it was these basic disasters were for us what were floods in Slavonia or fires in Dalmatia. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60904	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now we're going to Amendment 118 of the Lord Petrova.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60905	The amendment is not accepted for several reasons. First, the said street is not in the power of management of Croatian roads. Secondly, it is not accepted to reduce expenditure on activities for the reason that the reduced co-financing of the county road administrations in 2013 has led to an increased decline of the county and local roads in the Republic of Croatia compared to the previous year. Most of the county road administrations do not have enough own revenue to cover expenditure in accordance with defined maintenance standards. The funds provided for within the A107 activity will also be used for the necessary interventions on the county and local roads, which result from insufficient investment in previous years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60906	It's an obvious colleague of Petrov's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60907	I must admit that it did not surprise me, it did not surprise me, because since today, since the amendments started to be debated, you have not accepted one single, none of the amendments relating to Slavonia, which referred to the north of Croatia, to Istria, to Lika, to Knin, who is so pleased to homage neither to the south nor to a single one. Because you can know how many mayors, the mayors today are in a coalition that runs the Parliament coming from these parts, so neither one of them remembers to press the green button. Well, I really can't believe that the party is more important to you than the citizens who gave you the trust. Not one single, one single in a series of amendments, so isn't that a shame? Now I can really ask you, so aren't you ashamed? And you should be ashamed. Well done. But I would recommend one thing. You should know the measure to respect the opinions of others. And all the amendments that are today are not given to provoke someone, but to really improve the lives of people in these areas. So is it beneath you if you can't think of anything good to support it? I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60908	You're not looking? So you're giving up this amendment. Thank you very much. Then we'll go to the vote. We vote on the decision to give consent to the Croatian Roads Finance Plan for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 79 for, 33 against decisions on granting consent to the Croatian Roads Finance Plan for 2018 and projections for 2019/20. A year. I am now voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 79 for, 33 against the decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. We will now vote on the amendments tabled on the proposal for a Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. We will only decide on amendments submitted under the Budget Act. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Here with us is the esteemed Mr Ivo Milatić. 119th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party has been withdrawn, so let's go to Amendment 120. The GLAS and HSU representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60909	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation. Reduction of K2022 activity. the promotion of energy efficiency in transport in favour of the K2047 operation of gliding operations in the Republic of Croatia is not possible because the funds for the K2022 activity are provided for the promotion of energy efficiency in transport in accordance with the plan for the use of the financial resources derived from the sale of emission units through auctions in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of the auctions. And for the activity of K2047 the recovery of the skate in the Republic of Croatia's assets shall be secured from the non-intentional revenues of the Fund. Finding other sources of funds to finance K2047 activities. The resolution of the glider in Croatia is a problem because the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund in 2015, due to its commitment over the financial plan to future periods, has started to become difficult to deal with, and, in order to comply with the legislation of the prescribed activity during 2016, has resulted in the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the use of overfishing in the business account for a period of one year in order to settle the allowable overrun of the business account, i.e. commitments under environmental programmes and energy efficiency projects of the Fund, is in the process of coming into agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the credit responsibility of the bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60910	Appreciation for dear colleague Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60911	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really surprised, Mr. Milatic, because I was just ready to withdraw this amendment by thinking that if you accepted that earlier HNS amendment related to the skating rescue, you would also accept this HNS amendment as well as additional means to resuscitate the rink. I agree that 9 and a half million increases if that were to be summed up and how much we suggest it isn't enough. But at least it's something, but I can't believe that the HNS gave up on this amendment the previous one, so 119, because that's something that would be some initial, some initial suspicion that we're dealing with this skating problem. And after a great deal of shouting and noise, he suddenly gives up at least the initial means to resuscitate the rink. Therefore, in that case, I ask that we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60912	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment 121. Representatives Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60913	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation. Reduction to activities of A1000 administrations and management in favour of K2047 activity. The resolution of the glider in the Republic of Croatia is not possible because the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund in 2015 has become difficult to deal with due to its commitment over the financial plan to future periods, and in order to carry out the legislation of regulated activities during 2016, the Government of the Republic of Croatia agreed on the use of overruns per business account for a year. In order to settle the permitted overrun on a business account, i.e. commitments under environmental protection and energy efficiency programmes, the Fund is in the process of having the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to a credit responsibility with a business bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60914	My fellow Squishy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60915	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what I have to say. First, I was surprised by the withdrawal of the amendment by the CNS. I was hoping at least there'd be another 2 million kuna for the rinks, so to resuscitate the rink. Unfortunately, that's withdrawn, only seven and a half million kuna left. I find that absolutely unacceptable. Look before I mentioned how much damage there was on the slides, how much trouble it was because of the slide, how many units of local and regional self-government have invested in the project documentation, and now we're getting I have to say seven and a half million kunas. We cannot accept it, me and my colleague Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic have suggested at least 20 million kunas to speed up the process, and now we see it moving from the item of the Environmental Protection Fund. I ask to vote on this amendment because I believe that northern Croatia, Krapina-Zagorje County, means we work, produce, export, our local units have ready EU projects. So we're not asking the county to do anything but at least make up for the elemental disasters that hit our citizens the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60916	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the Decision to give consent to the Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour, 35 against a decision on granting consent to the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. I am now voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour, 35 against the Decision on granting consent to the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the recovery of banks for 2018 and the projections for 2019 and 2020. We will now vote on the amendment tabled on the proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. We will decide only on those amendments, therefore, to the one which has been submitted under the Budget Law. Please, on behalf of the proposing representative, Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic is manifested.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60917	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60918	The amendment is 122 club representatives of GLAS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60919	Amendment 122 is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted for technical reasons because there are no legal assumptions for the required increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60920	The obvious colleague Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60921	So, I don't see how the funds aren't planned, but here it's proposed in our amendment to where these funds would be secured. And it's actually about extra law, it's about de facto minimum funds, it's about 850,000 kuna. These 850,000 kunas would allow parents, or adoptors who are 8 years of age, to have the right to parental leave and have the right to that one-off fee even if biological parents have received it before. So, we're talking about demographic restoration, we're talking about the need to keep people here and somehow recover demographically, and for one such thing that's de facto helping people who adopt children without parents, we can't provide 850,000 kuna and you're saying that you can't accept it for technical reasons that I don't recognize here, because it's been suggested that the 850,000 kuna be provided. So, please take a nice vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-22-0.u60922	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the Decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 78 votes for and 35 against the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance for 2018 and projections for 2019 and 2020. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion that reads – The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out a revision of the text of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2018 and of the projections for 2019 and 2020 and of the financial plans of extra-profit users prior to their publication in the National Journal. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 81 for, 3. abstentions, 11 against, we have reached a conclusion in the text as proposed by the Committee on Legislatives. Are there any interested in taking a break right at the beginning? Comrade Pernar, here you go.
