ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47707	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club to discuss the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47708	Okay. A colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the HSS Club, I request a 10-minute break related to the announced amendment of the Health Protection Act and further collapse of the system and inaccessibility of healthcare to patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47710	You got it. A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47711	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a 10-minute break from the current political situation on behalf of the GLAS club in HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47712	Thank you. All right, if that's all right, comrade Grumpy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47713	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47714	You got it. All right, if you hear from her, colleague Pooh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47715	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club, the current political situation is the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47716	You got it. A colleague of Ostojić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47717	Here's the Honorable President, and also for the sake of the current political situation, we're looking for a break on behalf of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47718	Thank you. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47719	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47720	Okay, is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 9.45. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47722	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, as you probably know, yesterday afternoon, five hours went by, another meeting of the Agrokor Commission of Investigation. I used my business right to be there as an agent and I witnessed everything that was going on there. I'm afraid the commission is turning into a farce, look at only which witnesses are invited. So it is about Mr Manolic, Mr Mesic, Anti Todorovic, the elderly, Kovac and Penic from the Croatian Privatisation Fund. When you're doing an investigative commission or research and my experience has shown you first call people who have the most to say. You call those who have the most to say, you call those who have the most information, so that all the next witnesses who will come after them, the 5th, the 10th, 15th, you can ask all of this which this first said, and not the other way around. This is about people of high age, I will remind you that Mr. Manolić is almost a hundred years old and it is questionable what and how much they will be able to say and can contribute to this investigation and research. I am afraid, and judging by my experience that each other will be “I don’t remember, ” or“ I don’t know, ” and given their age, who could blame them. But I don't think he'll remember it so much or not, but he'll be happy to use it to avoid responsibility. Therefore, this is about taking the commission into obsolescence, the ruling majority led by the HDZ deliberately went far into the '90s, away from not having to investigate conversion and privatisation, should absolutely be put on that stand. But in this situation, when we have the prime minister's announcements and the ruling majority that just waiting for a powerful confirmation of the investigation to shut down, it is obviously a sabotage. It's about sabotaging to buy a week, two, just enough to find out a little or nothing and to get a nice run of the investigation and just cover up the whole commission. Mr. Ramljak, Prime Minister, Minister Dalic and others who certainly have a lot to say and who certainly the representatives who have something to ask in the commission, that is what the public is most interested in, above all, after the release of the contract with Knighthead and other funds yesterday, they were placed on indefinitely. He'll probably never make it if he shuts down before 6 months for questioning. And that's obviously someone's goal. There was no interest in questioning witnesses who could say anything about the bonds, about the illegal use of stamps. My colleagues and colleagues, a concession for the island of Smokvica, 26 million kuna damages for the Republic of Croatia, where is the responsibility of ministers, where is the responsibility of officials and officials who have allowed this debt to go out of date? The damage was done to Croatia, who and when will be responsible for it? The only commission can determine this since the investigation of criminal justice is led by the State's Attorney's Office, the County of Zagreb, instead of USKOK, however, the tool wants to choke. I don't know how in any normal state a conscious man who wants that country can well ask himself, or how can he live with the fact that 26 million kunas have been stolen somewhere and we have silenced about it? Has it been investigated that there are no sanctions, that nothing will ever happen? It's just unbearable. It's just that idea that this could happen. We are witnessing these days and the operation of action towards Agrokor, Minister Dalic will remember, she had a certain segment of her career in the IMF, linked to US capital, investment funds. Surely she has arranged this entire operation with Mr. Ramljak, as Mr. Maric came on assignment from Agrokor, so we have this second mission. We're waiting for the outcome of these events now, we need to find out the truth as soon as possible, but our tools are being disabled. It's about one set of policies, capital, and I'm afraid it will eventually be up to Croatian citizens. What if Sberbank said that, here's why it wasn't Lex Agrokor, if it hadn't been for that job, we'd be the first to charge, and that's why we're losing, and we're asking the state a billion or how many euros. It is a real danger, therefore, that the level of error and the level of corruption of this government and its officials in the events around Agrokor has reached a critical point and I think it is time to finish their story, therefore, we are looking for a government recall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47723	Now it is the club representative of HSS and respected Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47724	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the HSS Club, I asked for a 10-minute break on the subject of the Health Protection Act, or for the announcement of a health minister on the amendments to this law and for the benefit of the citizens of patients. Here is somehow in this fog about Agrokor, about the contract, about the commission, under the grain passes a debate on the ground in expert circles on amendments to the Health Protection Act and probably today at a conference in Opatija, employers in health care, the minister announces amendments to this law. The minister who played balloons to collect additional health insurance, so because of pressure, the public gave up, the minister who pushed taxes on used cars, so because of pressure from the public, the minister who announced the collection of mobile phones to the citizens, for filling the health budget and gave up for it. Now it goes with a final blow to available health care, to the collapse of the printing system, to public health care of health homes, which are the final dam available to public health care for all citizens. The fact is that the announced amendment that family doctors will get the consent to work directly from the minister and that at any moment they will be able to become privates is a further collapse of this system, to the detriment of citizens. Further inaccessibility of healthcare, patients, especially on islands, in rural areas and this is death for the health system. Are we socially sensitive society, does anyone think about citizens, about patients? For example, in Brod Posavina County currently lacks 14 teams of family medicine doctors. You know where he's missing? It's missing in the villages, and in the cities it's missing. And what will a doctor of family medicine do when he gets the minister's consent to go to privates? Well, of course he'll open an office where there are patients, where there's no extra costs, and that's the angle. in urban areas. And who will take care of the health of the citizens, in the islands, in the rural areas, in Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, Podravina, Lici, where the residents are going anyway. Is this an extra trigger to drive people out of Croatia? He says doctors will be able to work after full-time after 8 hours. So you know how it's done today? There were examples like this, that they ordered 10, 15 patients at regular hours, and for the rest of them... They sacrificed so they stayed after hours so they could charge them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the system did not allow doctors who are in the home health system to be adequately rewarded, those who work. We have already suggested that the directors of health homes be able to reward those who work, who have a good relationship with the patient. Instead, we're going to privatize everything. And we see an example of how privatisation took place on the example of Agrokor. We see an example of how citizens pass through and in some other systems. And we can see that this way you don't care about those who need health care the most. Those who work for a minimumer of €2620 cannot afford private health care, they are left with only walking foresters, meadows, picking healing plants and treating themselves. And they can't do that either, because they have to go to the Croatian woods to confirm that they collect mushrooms, chestnuts or something else. What kind of system are we, what kind of state are we when a man and his needs are not valued? What kind of society are we, what kind of democracy we are, if the diameter doesn't want to come here to the Croatian Parliament, explain to the parliamentary representatives whether this contract is valid, whether the stronger lex Agrokor or what the morning list has published, whether it needs a commission or not. Well, we're all about to find out the truth. When everyone says, I see that only the opposition cares about the truth, the patients and the citizens, I think if the diameter doesn't want to come here to explain the situation, then we all need to be on a government shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47725	The third debate of the Club of Representatives GLAS and HSU and esteemed colleague Anka Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47726	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We're actually in the real reality that's going on outside this hall, we're in this room doing some playbooks, talking, looking for breaks, warning, and real life is really going on outside this hall, and we need to see what in real life and what the citizens who chose us are saying. We're already under that great cloak of Agrocora, actually underneath the radar going through a series of other things. But equally in this one of our democratic games and democracy by ruling sits, deciding what they want, the opposition can only speak, but what the opposition says, no one cares. When Lex Agrokor was here, we asked two key questions. One question was why? Which is the point of what we're trying to achieve. The second key question was whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would pay one kuna. On the first question, why, what we want to achieve, was to protect jobs. On the second question, will it cost the citizens of the Republic of Croatia something and our diameter said no. And now things are developing further, more about how we protect jobs is absolutely below any topic and who the domino effect is all the time opening up the problem through the problem. In that case, the diameter is exactly what he said here, and I can do what I want. And in that I can do what I want, absolutely ignore all the debates that are in the House, absolutely ignore calls come and explain. I'm a technicalian, an architect. I don't imagine, and I don't want to imagine that I can interpret the laws. I've learned that the law is always stronger than one contract. But there is a key question, why is it in the contract, what was it intended to accomplish? And whether the meaning of lex Agrokora was to conclude one contract that was absolutely problematic and that would leave lasting consequences to all the citizens of this country. We've been here since spring to see if there'll be an investigative commission. And then he will, he won't, and suddenly he's full of mouths to everyone, that we want to, but we have at least 22 reasons why not. And then the investigative commission starts working. And the moment it starts working, we know what the relationship is, so by ruling it has 5 hands, the opposition has 4 hands and you have to set some criteria. The criterion may be that you only call on an investigative committee those who have green eyes. The criteria can only be to call those who have dyed hair. And the criteria that have been decided are over 88 years old. I really don't want to offend anyone, but the criteria that reigning have decided only over 80 years and possibly as little as possible to remember. You know when you go, when you're a little older, then you'll remember what happened in childhood, in elementary school, in high school, but what happened yesterday or 10 years ago was not. My men, the opposition has only one instrument to speak and we will speak. The ruling kind of pray, they don't have to hear everyone, but let's let them hear every 50. Not every 10, but every 50. Just to remind you from this pay phone we spoke, said Minister Maric, "Don't please introduce a real estate tax we're ready, we're doing crazy. But they went crazy. Likewise from this pay phone, we try to tell the Prime Minister to come here, explain to us what we're asking you, explain to us why. Why lex Agrokor, why contract, which is the meaning of it all. Maybe when we understand the meaning, we'll understand everything else. What I understand the point of this moment is that a man in this country named Mr. Ramljak has become untouchable. It was not a meaning nor a lex Agrokor, and also let us at least come to the criteria of those we call on to reduce to 60 years, and then it is a condition that maybe one day when he decides to visit his country before the Investigation Commission comes to Ivica Todorovic which I deeply doubt, given that the Commission will only work six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47727	Thank you, too. Following the order of Nikola Grmoi, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47728	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Yeah, I've been going through everything these last few days, and Plenkovic's famous can do whatever I want. So yesterday we're at the Committee's session of the opposition overvoted at all points. In no matter what, colleagues from HDZ who were completely prone to counterpart Curaj, they did not want to meet the opposition. The interesting thing is that when we proposed yesterday from the opposition to come to Ante Ramljak, because logically, it was the man who took responsibility for that concert that could give the most answers voted abstentionly in that proposal. He couldn't be against it, that would be too much, even though this is too much. Yesterday, the media was kicked out of a meeting of the Committee. That was the first point we were voted on. The second point is that a provision has been inserted into the Rules of Procedure that, although it was not a proposal from professional services, the Parliament's professional services had a different proposal. But according to fellow Members Jelkovac's proposal, the majority voted that the meetings could only be held if most members of the Committee were present, which practically means that, apart from being able to revote us, they could not appear at a session that did not suit them and then the session would not take place. And in the end, this happened what those who spoke before me were talking about. It's a choice of witnesses. I suggested since we first talked about the documentation we need to look for, and the logical thing is that we're going to get this documentation that's older later, we're going to be much harder to get it because it's probably in the archives, not in the institutions that we're looking for. And it will be more difficult for us to prepare ourselves for these witnesses who are from earlier years of the origin of the Croatian state. However, it was obviously intended to avoid those who are now in trouble. It is Ante Ramljak, Martina Dalic or Prime Minister Plenkovic who does not want to come here before the Croatian Parliament. To make things worse when we are media, i.e. when colleagues from HDZ and HNS kicked out the media then Millian Brkic, Vice President of the Parliament, called on our agreement from the first meeting that these sessions that are working will be done outside the public eye. But he forgot to agree that by the meeting, the first session of the 3.11. commission, we would choose to change that decision, to elect a vice president. That's exactly the kind of decision I made in the procedure. However, the decision hides something that HDZ is very afraid of, and that is that I have suggested that an item on the quality of financial reports be thrown out. And yesterday the Vice-President of the Parliament comes out after the meeting of the Committee, the journalists ask him, so when are you going to put more into the agenda a proposal from your colleagues, Grumoja, and he says don't be Nostradamus. Who said he wouldn't be included tomorrow? And I'm now asking President of the Parliament here, and he says no, no, we're gonna close this session today. There'll be time for that. When do we discuss this? Well, I'll discuss it when I decide. So I can do it again, and that's the attitude to the opposition, but it doesn't matter. So we won't, they want us to give up. We won't give up, we'll fight for the full truth about Agrokor. In the procedure, they have a proposal that can enable the Commission to work uninterruptedly, so that no one can call on the Commission to be unable to work. But they don't want to put it on and they want to stall. That's why they called these witnesses so they wouldn't come to the agenda. But I've already announced the first session of a particular document that will seriously shake this government and the advisors of this government. So I'm re-announced here, and I'm not such a fool to announce something this many times without having a record. So what they're doing in chronologically might not be the smartest thing for them I've also announced to them, because wherever they're going to be in trouble, they're big. Either from the beginning or from the end because they are all present on the Croatian political scene from the draft Croatian state. As for the SDP's impeachment initiative, I wish there were more consultations, so that this initiative would in some cases not be barren and self-help to strengthen the drugged Plenkovic, which I hope is not in our best interest. I also expect the support of the SDP and all the opposition clubs, but some representatives of the ruling majority around the lex sheriff. I think that's where we have to agree and oppose Plenkovic's stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47729	Thank you very much. So, since you called me, just a few information. First session of the Croatian Parliament, the one that is currently taking place ends today. It's not my will. It's the Bureau's decision from the beginning of the 9th month. You may be looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I think I'm obliged to ask for an explanation, because you mentioned me. At that presidency, there were no presidents of your political option, fellow Petrova, he was a colleague of Simic's, so you can ask him and you will see that it was just like that. As for the point you proposed, it will be included in the agenda, at the beginning of the next session, as well as all the points that have been proposed since the last vote we had, not last Friday, but last Friday, and I see nothing controversial about it. So, don't mystify something that's in accordance with the procedure, Rules of Procedure, I'm acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you can check Art. 224. propose the agenda and how the points are included in the agenda. Here's to breaking the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47730	President-in-Office of the Parliament, you have injured an officer. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure relating to the addition of the agenda of the current session of the Assembly because you did not put into the agenda a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the Agrokor Investigation Committee. It was announced on Friday by the vice-president of the parliament that we will vote on Wednesday, means we will vote on Wednesday, which you have avoided, just so this item does not come to the agenda. Although there is a deadline in the Rules of Procedure within which you are obliged to put the draft decision on the agenda and which is 15 days, and if you are planning to conclude this session now, that period shall be shortened because the decisions and final proposals of the law tabled for the duration of the session must be included in the agenda of that session. Not the first next session. Namely, I referred the proposal to 20.10, so during this session, not at a time when there is no session. And I believe that the item should be placed on the agenda of this session, so I ask you to respect the spirit of this Rules of Procedure and put the item on the agenda and to give it the highest priority means this point requires the president of importance. I understand that you're protecting the Prime Minister, protecting the structures you've been raising all these years and whose part you've been in, but what you're doing is a pure violation of your rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47731	I've now allowed you 30 seconds more to tell you what you have. Unfortunately, yours, you do not influence the agenda, you can propose, and by the Rules of Procedure you know who determines the agenda. So, you know. So now we're moving on, five debates is the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the Honorable Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47732	I would like to thank the president, dear colleagues and colleagues. So once again, and we'll say it every time, the HNS's attitudes from the beginning and what I've been saying for the past few weeks, is that the goal of this Lex Agrokor that we truth and God didn't vote for him, but we've been constructive and we've proposed amendments and we now have what we have. He made it possible for the Institute of the oldest debt, which was not in our legislation in other laws in bankruptcy and pre-determined settlements recognised. The institute has just made it possible for a private company to continue financing private money. And no citizen, no swear, no citizen, no swear, no swear, no bearer of any private company. Not a single private relationship contract between a private dig and his creditors, a believer, can or should not be above the law. That's absolutely clear. I wish these creditors, as many as there are domestics, came and said, here you in Croatia have fantastic people, especially in opposition that are phenomenal experts, we will give you money for free. We don't need collateral, we don't need to be secure, here's a billion euros and save the system company from which a good part of the Croatian economy depends. I'd love to, I don't know if it happened anywhere in the world, but these things are. The goal of all of this should be to preserve every job. Providers, believers among whom are small and large suppliers discussing a contract on a religious council, supported such a contract, and we try to be greater Catholics than the Pope. And fight for them, better than they fight for their own money and for their own interest. We must fight for the citizens, for no one's interests. The commission should continue to work, my colleague Grumoja has now left, and he has recorded that session even when I said, before the work begins, I would like to, and I stand still, I have no problem, for anyone to come before that commission. And we said Ivica Todorovic is still the first to be invited. Let Ante Ramljak come to the prepared session, which is closed, just to protect himself. To give us these statements and I was also restrained, so I have no problem, but it has been determined by decision and it is not true that we agreed on nothing on committee, proposal, documentation, anything that has been proposed has been accepted. And she suggested by chronologically how the decision was written. Since investigating the beginning of the Agrokor concert, we have also accepted that we should go the way the promoter imagined. But I don't have a problem with anyone coming, I wanted them at the prep session to come, they just kind of ignored it. No one has even accepted the opposition. Let's go, Ivica Todorovic, okay. It is a witness, let's get to know the better of the topic at these preparatory sessions, to get as much information as possible and of course that they were closed to the public, because we at that session, were also involved in the professional services of the Parliament, and you can think that the professional services of the Parliament will be given to the cameraman for their word, give their opinions. He won't. We know that there's one thing we're talking about here, when the lights go out a whole different atmosphere. We worked five hours without those media. With those media, it would be a show and a circus. And slowly, that's not the point of the commission. What I'm going to advocate is to determine if there was a breach. We know Agrokor was a state within the state, we can't lie. Who shot that? How it happened and why it should never happen again. It's important, and everything with a purpose we have this law that we have, we have a Commissioner. So you know here that the current prime minister of his colleague Vrdoljak was saying he was offering Superman. Yeah, Superman because we said one man can't do that. We got what we got. Believers are the ones who decide. The business plan should be adopted by the end of the month. Restructure plan by 30.11. These creditors don't decide to make a deal, they decide to protect their investment. And the analysis and publication of this should be 12.1. That's what we need to do. I'm sure I don't know what this kind of debate contributes to stabilising? A better credit rating for Agrokor? I don't know. I don't know what it's going to bring, and the goal has to be every job, supplier, agricultural production and industrial production that's leaned on. So, Thank you. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague Curaj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47733	The next is SDP advocates' club and respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47734	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the citizens I'm talking to these days, are losing their faith in politics, in confidence in politicians and this assembly, all of us, and the relationship between the prime minister and the government towards the Parliament is all that further encourages it. Therefore, if there is a place to talk at any moment about the problems of Croatian citizens, and at this point the strongest affair regarding everything that has happened in Agrokor is then the prime minister must show at least a little wisdom, come to the assembly, and if he has genuine intentions to speak openly about what is going on and what he thinks about what we have been following the past days. I really believe, without any doubt, that Agrokor is the biggest corruption affair in the recent history of Croatian society and therefore Mr Plenkovic, if he can truly step forward and say that he can do what he wants, then as such, he should come to the Croatian Assembly and speak openly with us parliamentary representatives about how he sees this situation. However, all that is done especially through this Investigation Commission from the very beginning of its announcement, until yesterday's session that is almost at the level of the novel Alan Ford shows that we cannot believe the sincere intentions of HDZ, Mr Plenkovic and the whole team that revolves around it. So all the moves of the ruling Committee of Investigation only strengthen our suspicion that the intentions of the ruling are not fair. From the ban on public monitoring of yesterday's Commission to, of course, these decisions made by the Commission almost grotesque, the majority's decision on who they're going to call first to testify. The wise prime minister would say who wrote lex Agrokor, would show wisdom and ensure that the investigation committee does as best as possible. Because if it's all clear, then the Bureau of Investigation will work for him. Hiding this way restricting labour opportunities only triggers our suspicions that intentions are not fair. At the same time, whatever attempts to point out a problem of conflict of interest is trying to make it impossible for those doing so to work. Here we have now our dear president who, like an offended little girl, is crying that Dalia Oreshkovic doesn't like her, who just wants to hear answers to questions about whether there are elements of conflict of interest. So perhaps this should also be done by the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest to end or prevent Mrs. Oreshkovic from being president in the next period, even though she did her job very correctly, whether those who were the subject of the Commission's research were ruling, an opposition with only one goal to prevent conflict of interest. And in the sea of these problems that plague us under the grains, some of the topics mentioned today by a colleague, Vlaovic, concern health care. So I was in Opatija yesterday at the Association of Employers Congress in Health where we could hear catastrophic data. So the total obligations of Croatian health care are 8.2 billion kuna. Okay. The total liabilities do not have to mean anything. Total liabilities don't have to mean anything, but the due amount is 4.2 billion kuna. Well, it's health Agrokor, it's a chain that can completely destroy Croatian health care. Patients waiting for cardiovascular procedures so they can't wait a year and a half as long as they are now. And Minister Kujundzic just plays colorful balloons and announces something and doesn't solve anything, and waiting lists are getting longer and longer. One of the problems facing Croatian health could solve Mr Plenkovic at the same time. You could come here and say that, the Croatian state is obliged to pay 4.2 billion kuna annually under the Law on compulsory health insurance. How much is he paying? Two and a half billion kuna. So, every year, billions and 700 million kunas are paid less under the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. So the state doesn't respect the laws. What about citizens who don't respect the laws, who owe one lip, two limes? They've got errands coming in. Grandmas go to prison, and the state does not fulfil its obligations under the laws passed by the Croatian Parliament. Here's a fellow ruling, soon we'll be making a budget. be sure to provide money to Croatian health care that belongs to it under the Health Insurance Act. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47735	And last debate between the HDZ Representatives Club and respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47736	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Yesterday, I have been listening to breaks sought by representatives of the opposition in which breaks are called to citizens such as before, and counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic is calling for citizens as they represent Croatian citizens. So I would ask which citizens are the opposition? Do you, by any chance, represent the 50,000 employees of Agrokor who, neatly after Lex Agrokor and the extraordinary administration, receive salaries? Consuma shelves are full, the event's winnings are announced at the end of the year. Do you represent their interests? Do you perhaps represent the interests of small farmers? The O.P.G., the supplier, the believer? They made fun of you yesterday. They're begging you not to represent them. They ask you not to speak for them because they are absolutely satisfied with Lex Agrokora, they are satisfied with the extraordinary administration. They say only you don't represent. So, Mr. Lenart, I listened to you, so then be so democratic, you listen to me. The profession, all legal experts in Croatia, all economic experts say that the roll-up contract is in accordance with the law that nothing is disputed. After all, the moment the rollup was signed here we reconfigured the government in Parliament. It wasn't a certain fate of the government. You remember that. At that time, the extraordinary administration was the only guarantee that the billion-euro money they gave at a critical moment for the fate of Agrokor, and then clear for the fate of the Croatian economic and financial system that the contract they signed would be able to realise. So, you do not represent the interests of citizens, you do not represent the interests of the profession, you simply politicize here, you get the impression that you would sacrifice 200 thousand employees who are in the system or Agrokor or in related societies around Agrokor to bring down the government of Andrej Plenkovic. That's all. You'd sacrifice 200,000 people, you'd ruin an extraordinary administration. You'd rather not sign a settlement. You would do anything to bring down the government of Andrej Plenkovic. In all your blindness, that's all you do. Trying to charge us with high treason. You should be ashamed of yourself. You are the government that has made impeccable intervention in the Croatian economic system, the best intervention since the 1990s, called for high treason. I ask a question whose interests are yours, then? Russian capital? Sberbank? I understand Sberbank, it's a bank that wants to charge up to the last June but if the banks charged up to the last June, there would be no salary for employees, there would be no small suppliers, the OPGs, it wouldn't be like the President of the Brlosic Chamber, there would be no seed or harvest in Slavonia if it wasn't all done together. And you're doing it all because you're following your leader's incompetent and unreal ambition, and you can ask yourself if that's how you represent foreign capital, when you represent Ivica Todorovic, what you're saying matches everything that's written on your blog, Ivica Todorovic, or you write to him blogs or you read what he writes, so you quote him here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47737	Wait a minute. Comrade Bačić, just a minute. I'm asking you, colleague Lenart, if you'd like to take your word for it, you can pick up, there was a break. If anyone's talking nonsense, it's an estimate of someone else and not you. Maybe what you're saying is stupid... So please don't come in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47738	You're in pain of the truth, colleague Lenart, all I've said is true. The question is, whose interests do you represent? I said that what you say, writes Ivica Todorovic so that when you talk about the interests of Croatia, then you talk about the interests of those who are directly related to the system of Agrokora. They are employees, they are small suppliers, they are believers of Agrokora, it is a Croatian economic system. And that's what bothers you. You would sacrifice, I say, 200 thousand jobs to bring down Andrej Plenkovic and his government, and it will not go your way because it is precisely the existence of this government and what this government is doing in the interest of Croatian citizens primarily those who are connected to Agrokor. That's your problem and you can't deal with it, but that's why you'll be long in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47739	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the agenda now. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47740	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, a colleague of Bačić, demeaned and insulted MPs in Article 238. In particular, I feel offended, you created Ivica Todorovic and 200 wealthy families, conversion and privatisation, and we want to stop you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u47741	Comrade Voter, so you systematically abuse this institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning now. I'm asking you, if you're going to do this, I'm going to have to give you a reminder by taking away the words because you started doing it and practicing all the time so that please don't do it. Okay, now we're moving on to the agenda. Good morning, distinguished parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives, we continue our work. Let me just announce the first point, and then we'll go with the break requests. So today we will work on one item of the agenda, this is the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55311	... esteemed MPs and MPs, the report of the centre is available, I would not take up valuable time now but I will wait and hear your comments and suggestions and suggestions and then take, 5 minutes to answer what will be and perhaps warn of an important topic that is also current with Agrokor in Croatia, so here, to shorten this time, I would leave you to say what you think, and then I will be very happy to answer if it is necessary to ask your question. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55312	We have a replica of you, Your Honor, Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55313	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Doctor Nazor, I would like to commend your report which, as every time, is very exhausting. But I'd like to ask you a question. Can you tell us if there's anything new with a completely inappropriate scandalous, embarrassing European reader who was performed in Thessaloniki in 2016... in which claims such as that the war in Croatia was actually created or encouraged by the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, that Vukovar was the Hiroshima of Serbian and Croatian madness without any further comment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the second question, is it true, that the person who collaborated on that reader was involved in the curricular reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55314	The answer, to the replica, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55315	Thank you very much for asking. Unfortunately, that's true. I reported on the last report in the work of the center. I warned that it was done and I listed only the most important points or findings in that reader. What you've brought out now is that we're part of what's in it. I personally gave a scientific review to that reader who was in the journal for Croatian history. It's a bigger problem. In fact, this is what I wanted to highlight in this particular topic, that some people take responsibility to interpret Croatian history, although they do not actively deal with this history. In the making of the first curricula, our center has been bypassed in the work as well as the Institute of History. And the people who worked on it do not deal with modern history, especially the Homeland War. The mention of the reader, which you mentioned, is what I said last time here in the Parliament, associates who appear on this reader from Croatia, Croatian historians, none of them are concerned with modern history. The result of such an approach, I am sure, and I am responsiblely saying here, the deliberate bypassing of the Croatian Institute of History and our centre is that these things that you said are listed in the chapters relating to the war in Croatia and BiH. So in this reader, it's not just a problem, it's not just a matter of factographic errors and such findings, because it's scandalous that there's some multi-perspectivity in the section on Vukovar that quotes a statement of no one's debt but Vuk Draskovic, that Vukovar is Hiroshima I'd leave it, I thought those five minutes, in the end, I'd leave it, because I think that's one big problem. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55316	It takes more time. Thank you very much. Now do any of the committee's rapporteurs actually want only the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee and on Education, science had a theme? No, I don't. Okay. Thank you very much. Does the government's representative want to give an additional opinion? No, I don't. And now we're going to have a discussion. The first is Mr. Miro Bulj, who will speak for the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55317	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the respected head of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre from the Homeland War. In this report you listed everything from the beginning of the memory center to this report that is quite extensive and which means in several parts. I'm interested in, in order not to repeat, whether you have enough archive material, i.e. Did you collect all the material you think is necessary? And whether it's material is essentially in one place. And whether a large part of the material that was secretly, without the permission to take off the official secret ended up in a number of international institutions, as an example, went to the HAG, we know how many documents went. Did the copies or originals go away and do you have them at all? Because we know that our policies would be added to European officials, that they were sending trucks of documents without official detachment at the time for cooperation with the International Court of Justice was Mr Orsat Milenić, so he could confirm that, but later on, at the time the Croatian defenders were located, they involved... They were processing and the documents were leaving at the time, and did you ask for all these documents, since the processes of God are now complete. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our generals are freed, I think it would be good to check if there are documents that you or the archives don't have that are missing. As far as very important is concerned, it's a curricula, we all mention education, and it's very important how this whole procedure goes through what our children are going to learn. We're just asking it to be true about the Homeland War, the only truth that goes through this whole procedure, who controls it, who's authorized for material from the Homeland War, what your influence is, and the people who deal with this within that reform that's been announced and who will soon be adopted according to all the statements. Therefore, I expect that the Homeland War is mainly due to the future to tell the truth about the Croatian victorious soldier. It is the least they deserve, and the most important thing is that future generations know the truth rather than hear stories like heard from a fellow member of Parliament, Pupovec, who compares Mr. Bobetka's war hero general with criminals such as Mladic, Babic and others. That was not so long ago, that these untrues don't pollute the space mostly younger. The truth about the Homeland War is very important in schools as well as in documents through textbooks and videos and witnesses who, in those times which should be lecturers of certain hours within the entire educational programme and the obligation to visit sites such as the city of Vukovar and other areas, should not be forgotten, that these people are not forgotten because yet Croatia was created in blood, in the defensive Homeland War all together. It was not seen who was the son of the Ustasha, who was the son of the Partisans. Therefore, the Croatian state was created together and we must do this job together and put the truth about the Croatian soldier, the victorious soldier, the human soldier who prevented a large genocide only in the Bihaćko enclava, so that we do not speak of a greater slaughter than Ratko Mladic was in Srebrenica. So many of these facts should be in textbooks. Many people have given their lives and, of course, the most work and work on the truth, because as time passes, the truth can be reversed. Your attitude and stories, so you follow all Croatian troops,... Army troops, SAO provinces, JNA at that time in this area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth turns out, and it's not good that all summer, for three months, there's been talk of eleven volunteers of the Homeland War, defenders who died, who had their own record in Jasenovac. He's in Gradiška now, and he's not answering. Then it wouldn't have done anything to offend them in this way, because all the troops of the MUP, the ZNG, the Croatian army after, the reserves, the Guard troops, the HoS, they all played their part. And I don't think it'd be worth talking about that way, while in Croatia, it's full of monuments to Chetnik leaders like the Shoskocan and the others. I think we should talk about it in public, we don't want to contaminate space like it was. But about the Homeland War for three months, we've been talking about 11 honest people. And to mention, there were people of all nationalities and all worlds, and so we know that there were a large number of Serb national minorities and the Croatian military in HoS. And these people are given great pain and great importance, to people who are members of the Serb national minority in my area where I live, many people have given great pain. I repeat the great pain, the people of the Serb minority and the triba thank them. I am sorry that no one represents them, nor in this House, those people who have defended Croatia, who have accepted Croatia as their country and I see no reason not to put it in front of all of us as an example of people, and us as societies that hold to these values, to our national minorities, not only Serbian nationality. But since such was the character of the war, we know that Serbia was headed for Croatia on a grand-serb quest. I believe that everything should be recorded and, of course, in classrooms left to our students as a permanent sort of, as a story of a community that can only fight us for the survival of a Croatian man who only strengthens us in the future because divisions have never brought anything. As I said in the Homeland War, we all participated together in any sons of Partisans, Ustashas, people of Serb national minorities, other national minorities. No one saw it, but they fought together in the trench. I would also point out that on the Homeland War, you as an institution need to use people who are self-organizing. We have examples of a number of war cameramen, numerous people who have their own documentation, and even themselves as a war cameraman Peter Malbaša himself did certain documentary films without support and state and institution and left one clue as a film called "True to Victory" in which the entire war route describes many of our units, primarily the troops of the Guard 126 and these southern parts, and in other sectors we have. And that would have put the tribal together in one place, because they left a lasting stock because they didn't have a rifle in their hand, but they had cameras and they left what was most valuable and that is the current recording of that time, these people and those stories bloody when Croatia had to defend itself unfortunately with weapons. And I would once again say that I believe that this can be done, I believe that you have opportunities, I believe that the state can enable you and the others who are investigating that time, that the truth is preserved and that the Homeland War is what it was. Winning, liberating, just because we had the right of Croats to their country, after centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55318	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. First Mr. Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Nazor, Mr. Bull, you mentioned that the court proceedings were closed. I would point out this way that not all procedures have been completed and that just once, a powerful verdict regarding the BIH is expected but can have a very large repercusion and on the Republic of Croatia, so I think that should be emphasized. Another thing he would point out when it comes to legal aspects, in general, the Homeland War. I don't think you talk about them sometimes enough and that's why you'd compliment what you mentioned on the board, if you organized one... who was just about to process and process these aspects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that some interpretations and changes to the '98 Constitution or international recognition of Croatia would not happen, are interpreted as the cause of Serbian rebellion or something like that. So I hope you'll move on in that sense. They mean from a multidisciplinary perspective to address the issue of the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55320	Thank you, too. Replication response, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55321	I was talking about generals who were tried in the case where the intelligence of our operations was given meanings in the HAG. The fact is, he had a much harder verdict now, and I agree with him, which we can expect, in the first degree, we had. Where Croatia is accused of a criminal enterprise. A very dangerous construction, a joint, criminal enterprise of the Croatian state, from politics to the military at the BIH. Which is absolutely untrue and the people the state was forgotten about. That's where you'd agree, those generals were forgotten. The first minister to remind the generals was Minister Sprlje, they were left without legal assistance, defending themselves in the first degree they lost that in essence. The biggest problem is that if the Croatian State does not defend itself, if it is within the appeal period... She took it, and I believe she did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I expect that the Croatian soldier and the Croatian Council of Defense jointly defended Croatian territory. I've spent a year in the BIH myself, if there were a number of people from that time on, and I don't see any reason we had any criminal activity. The Croatian soldier freed and saved the main bull's enclave from the largest genocide in this area. Srebrenica, therefore, was a much smaller crime that occurred in the bullish enclave. It is a setup, but the Croatian state and Croatian society are very little the Croatian state has taken on this issue. And I believe it must not happen that the Croatian soldier should be accused of being a criminal, and the entire Croatian state, the institutions, had a criminal enterprise in the area of BIH. Croatian soldier and HVO have also been wounded jointly under the Izetbegović Tudjman agreement in Split, defending each other against a large Serbian Chetnik resort on BiH and Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55322	Thank you, Mr. Bull, thank you. Mr. Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull, you have said well that it takes a day today, unfortunately so many years after the end of the war, to actually advocate the truth about the Homeland War. Because often that day is blurry, some things are quiet, some try to reinterpret, etc. And the question that you asked your colleague Nazor, in fact, he answered, you may have heard him a little bit, to ask, were they involved, consulted, when making curricula. He made it clear, unfortunately, that neither his institute nor the Croatian Institute of History were involved in the creation of a curricula although, on the scientific side, the objective sides would have anything to say and may be the most invited in that part of Croatian history to give their views and data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55324	Thank you, too. Replication response, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55325	So I think the most important truth about the Homeland War, we're complicated here, we need science to be involved and it should be essentially in textbooks, adapt course towards age, because we have nothing to be ashamed of, because again, the Homeland War was common, it was apologetic, everyone stood together in the trench, I repeat, there was no nationality, no religion, no party membership. Simply, we are all united together, the Croatian people are defending their country. Of course there are many questions, many of the people we have to talk about, here we have just forgotten people who are missing, people who are still missing and our Croatian defenders, so here we have a doctor... Which I'd like my colleague Milorad Pupovac to talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He was in charge of these things and exchanges at the time. He should know the most, so here's what we should talk about. Many people are basically and families don't know about their deaths. And that's the way it's supposed to go. We need to know that when we talk about the truth about the Homeland War, the only way we can leave it is if it's written, of course on the scientific side, scientists or people of those generations of the Homeland War, of course, is that there are fewer and fewer of these people. In a few years, it will be true what is written and left in the documents, in the textbooks, and it must not be allowed to distort the truth, that the Croatian people who were, the Croatian state, who was the victim, to go in reverse, to turn out that we were an aggressor victim and that we have this example when we enter, i.e. when we open Serbia's judiciary chapter, in the EU where Croatia was to stand behind these, block negotiations and that Serbia's power over Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55326	Mr. Bull, you'll have plenty of opportunities yet. And it is not the custom of another representative especially if he is not present if he responds to a third representative. Mr. Matic in front of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Director with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So, the report of the Croatian Memorial Centre of Homeland War 2016 as well as all previous ones, was made very correct, very content as historians know how to do it and the SDP will, of course, accept and support this report. However, today I want to talk about something that I have talked about several times, since I can tell a friend with Mr. Nazor, discuss and discuss something called ending history or different interpretations of historical events. I'm like a layman who's not a historian, for me it's always two and two, four, but we've seen some historians say it's small, some say it's too much again. But today I've prepared a whole other debate, but since here, two nights because of one event I don't sleep, I've decided to share it with you this time. It's not directly related to this event, but given that it's a historical event, it is. In fact, I've been taught to be on the side of weaker, powerless, needy, old, disfellowshipped and when it comes to people who are 95, 100 years old, especially. And now I don't trust myself either, but I have to be credible and principled, and maybe even some of my fellow SDP colleagues will resent that after all this, after 70 years of World War II, they'll defend Ustashas, I really didn't imagine it alone in the worst nightmare. Namely, they did not have to kill, burn, kill, destroy, write racial laws for four years, so they did not for nothing form a concentration camp, Jasenovac and Gradiška Stara, darken the Serbs, Roma, Jews, Croats of the unsuspecting, cast into caves like Jadovno, licked and kissed the laps and hands of Mussolini and Hitler and tried to be greater fascists than them, and now someone has decided with one sentence to overwrite it and a dead cold saying "The Ustashares were not fascists." Imagine, Bishop Kosic, who is known for many of his unwise statements, according to procedures such as blessing of war criminals, crosses the building, but this time really went too far. Nothing was caused, he insulted the Ustashas and their movement. In a single sentence he said they were fascists, and therefore we from this place must clearly tell Urbi et orbi to everyone on notice once and for all. You won't insult Ustasha. They are who they are. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Radin: Please, Mr. Glasnović, you have a replica later. Here you go.]] So, Ustashas as they are, they are ours, and we don't let them insult them, because when they say for themselves and they're proud that they're fascists, then we don't let anyone take it away from them after 75 years and question it. So sleep quietly, Ustasha, and don't worry. We'll never, ever forget your actions and everything you've done in the '40s. - of those years and for which we will remember you forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55328	We have a few replicas. First Mr. Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55329	Comrade Fred, look at your possible war buddy how we, if we had lost this last war of ours, who knows where those great fighters of yours would be with us. Look at the way they made me a nice mustache, reminds me of some Hitler. But, fellow Fred, you didn't mention any of the brushes you allegedly fought. You haven't mentioned them in a single word, and that's a fresher memory to you. But in the time of Milanovic's government, in conjunction with Vesna Terselic, Deputy Prime Minister Vesna Pusic, via her party colleague Zlatar Violic, launched strong political pressure to destabilize Nazora. So it was appointed the new administrative council of the center at the head of the... and Exalted as members of the council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says this, the board of directors of HND CDR, named Cedomir Višnić, who during the war was an intelligence officer of the military, so-called "Kedomir Višnić". SAO landscapes. A document confirming that Cedomir Višniæ was in '92. For years, he collaborated with representatives of the 13th Serbian Army brigade, the so-called "Serb Army". SAO landscapes. Fred, you were in that government. Someone and something. How come you didn't see what they were setting us up as defenders? Who's going to explore our history? Intelligences of the landscape. But they didn't bother you. And I know here why you didn't mind. I know a lot of things that a lot of people don't know. Patak and the team from Vukovar greet you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55330	Replication response, Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55331	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Culey, I'm used to your insults and lies that you've been putting on about me for a long time, but I would ask the chairman that Mr. Culey doesn't address me as "you," once Mr. Shucker used to be someone, so he said to the people "We didn't keep sheep together," so Mr. Culey, we didn't fix the tanks in JNA together, namely I didn't fix them at all or I was there. As for Mr. Nazor and his role and all that the Croatian government has done with him, he knows best and knows my part in all this. So thanks to my voice, my little bits he's been removed from that position. Here you can see he's no longer the Director of the Memorial Documentary Center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55332	This has been a heated debate, but within the limits of decency, no matter what, and you or you will agree. Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55333	Dear colleagues, I think it makes no sense to tell some people something because I used to say that the worst obstacle to the state of Croatia is this mental heritage that prevents catharsis, lighting events in these areas. It's okay. It's okay. Mr. Fred, you're not a historian. I studied history, modern history and studied political sciences in Canada that are not the same society. Everything is available there. I've read more books in the day of time than anyone... All my life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have no idea what you're talking about, and now I'm gonna prove it. All the states that hold on to themselves have a Commission on War Graves. Americans come here, it's pure science, it's not politics, it's not partisans and Ustashas. They came here looking for two pilots from World War II. In Croatia you have from the Slovenian border, the Austrian borders to Bulgaria do not know in Croatia 700 mass graves in Slovenia, 1000 in Croatia. They're victims of the communists, the communist regime, the Bolshevik Satanism that you're defending today, so I don't know why. Have you signed up before in the former state of Yugoslavia? Are you still the Yugoslavs? You've remained mentally Yugoslav. And if you've been fighting there's a description of fanatics that's this. A man who fights for certain goals, when he reaches them forgets why he fought. When you laid the crown in Vukovar where it was killed, and... That is what Bishop Košič and the second in the centre of Vukovar said in April forty-five years killed 200 thousand of the most prominent citizens of Vukovar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why we did, because that regime killed the Croatian people, it's not the Ustasha issue, the Partisans. Executed... Democide and class genocide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you mentioned the great Serbian imperialism from 1912 to '41. He killed 200,000 people in these areas, and where did he start? You know the name of a priest and 100 Croatian peasants who were killed in '35. years in the Old Yugoslavia. You have no idea. Stick to your guard's props, and don't you people... And you're a pure agi popper and a shame that you were a Croatian defender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, Mr. Glasnović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55334	Here you are, Mr. Matic, Mr. Matic's reply. Please time! [[Invader Glasnović: You are a disgrace to the Croatian defender.]] We respect time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55335	Thank you very much. Every time Mr. Glasnović heard, you should have been here in Croatia and gone through what the Croatian people had been through until the 1990s and later. It was easy to be smart from 10,000 miles. ... Please! [[/Intruder Glasnović, you don't understand.]] From 10,000 kilometers away as well as your former Prime Minister Oreshkovic whom you have never asked why he was not in the Homeland War. I don't question your merits of war, and you know it. However, we should know something, you who have read a lot of books, so this House of Nineties has been talking about marking the site of the victims of World War II and porn. There was a famous committee of Hebrang's that we abolished, but you said you were going to renew it. Here's two years have passed, of course you haven't. The only two monuments in the Republic of Croatia to the victims of World War II and Porec were opened in Tupala Sinjc near Otočac and in Gracani here in Zagreb. You won't believe it, you'll be informed. So those two places are the only, zero and no third, opened by the government of Zoran Milanovic, opened by the defence minister, my little one. And over the only two monuments in the Republic of Croatia in large letters written by victims of the communist regime, you won't believe it or you want SDP's authority and this former minister here who is before you. And you still honk about everything you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55336	You've caused a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you, you have to say the article. Here you go. Turn on the microphone first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55337	238th Precinct. First of all, sir, I have to fix this to him. The Croatian people built a monument to Macel where you have 130 mass graves, where they were killed by civilians, prisoners of war. You have 130 pits. Where up to 14,000 people were killed, which was paid by the Croatian people, and no non-state commission paid. And so, you have other monuments in the municipalities. People themselves organize to mark the deaths of their people by this criminal communism, of that Bolshevik Satanism that killed more people than four centuries of this Turkish Zulu. You did it, your heirs did it, predecessors in 4 ten short years. And that's why you've got 3 million people out there, and my family's all taken away in that country. I was born in a 25-square apartment and I left when I was eight because I had to run. So wait, I am, when you talk about me. I had to run. Ten years in Zenica, mother six months there in UDBA. I've been brought in. Yours are... family guessed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55338	Thank you very much. Time. Mr. Glasnović, I was so tolerated that I didn't tell you that article 238, but article 236, 238, excuse me for saying not to talk about falsifying data. I was tolerated, so respect that. ... I've been tolerant. [[/Intruder Glasnović, you don't understand.]] Mr. Zekanovic's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55339	Every time the SDP is on its knees, then we hear from that side of the conference, normally what we're going to talk about Ustashas and Partisans. It's always the same story. You have a great party president, congratulations on that. That's probably why you're constantly pulling this subject out. But I still can't believe that in 2017 we hear that "you won't pop". It's the same expression, the same exclamation that's been repeated for 45 years. "You won't pop" I don't know, Mr. Matić. Did I hear that right? Hundreds of these priests, these priests, as you called them, and nuns were killed in labor and labor. You talk about Ustasha crimes, you talk about Ustashas, and you don't mention Partisan crimes. Not everyone who was in the Ustashas and the natives were criminals like many, many, unfortunately partisans slaughtered and killed both in Bleiburg and the Crossway and always those topics are re-extended, whenever you are on your knees. If you already condemn fascist crimes, Ustashas, which we all condemn, condemn and communist, and you have never heard a word of the condemnation of communist crimes. And you are an advanced democratic, European party, and you always call on the council, to the resolutions of the Council of Europe, the EU, so you forget this resolution on the condemnation of all totalitarian regimes. So you're ignoring it all the time. It's like the Council of Europe never said anything. But the more you pull that subject out, the more you're in opposition, the poor that you're gone, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55340	Mr. Matic, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55341	So, thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, you were wondering if you heard well, so I don't know if you're really sitting on your ears, so you've heard quite well what I've said to Mr. Glasnović and what I've answered, so you've heard it too. I was talking about a concrete priest, so it's a folk term for a priest, a priest, a walk, it's called a pop, a concrete pop, and here on this side of the assembly we didn't let be offended by the Ustashas. What are you angry about now? Are we going to insult them or are we not going to insult them? As far as you're concerned, you shouldn't be offended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55342	Mr. Zekanovic, you've made a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55343	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55344	Wait, I'm curious, please just read the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55345	238, demeaning fellow MPs. Look. Like this, my colleague told me to honk, just before I was sitting on my ears, just before my colleague Glasnovic blew the horn, his colleague, I have to say, and that's one vocabulary that SDP used most of the time, so his colleague just said from a pay phone that the prime minister was groping. I'm just going to congratulate you on your brilliant presentation and on your president's excellent presentations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55346	Let's move on. In front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Director with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the report of the Croatian Memorial-Documentation Centre for 2016, which as you can see, exhaustively, extensively and gives full information about the activities of the center but also the problems the centre faces. The centre is a central archival and scientific institution for the collection and protection of archive materials from the Homeland War and its research and activities are also extensive. Perhaps the work of the Department of Archival Materials of the Homeland War, which, with regular activities, should be particularly highlighted by the Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War over the years, explored and edited requests received from various state institutions, county state attorneys of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice, the Department of War Crimes, the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, lawyers, suspected members of the HVO. The centre collected archival material by taking over by official donation and purchase of archival material. During 2016 there were 24 or 7 more scientific and professional journals, monographs, collections and other professional and professional-publicist newspapers. A total of 31 scientific or professional work by the employees of the centre with topics from the Homeland War. This number does not include the work of the staff of the centre 2016 who have been published on portals as well as individual daily and periodic presses. During 2016, the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War and its employees participated as organizers or co-organizers and as active participants lecturers and promoters at many scientific and professional gatherings, public stands and lectures and promotions and exhibitions where scientists, commanders and other participants of the Homeland War events and authors of promotional publications spoke. The issue of keeping the material taken and collected should also be highlighted. To this end, storage facilities are provided and needed. For conventional material is stored in warehouses in the center, 150 metres of square storage in Kerestinac, 205.16 meters of square meters which, due to the height of space, can receive more than 1000 long meters of cities and unconventional material is stored under appropriate conditions in special storage facilities in the Croatian State Archives in Kerestinec and in Croatia cinema. Due to the reconstruction of the storage facility in Kerestinec, the capacity of the total storage area that the centre has available is currently reduced until the completion of the mentioned reconstruction. The rich publishing and scientific research activities and co-operation with state institutions indicate that the centre has high professional staff and, as indicated in the report, is self-financed by their education or the cost of obtaining a doctorate as well as the costs of various professional trainings for their employees. So far, the centre has managed to pay by its own means for all the improvements. By July 2013, at the center of work employed indefinitely, employees are graduated historians, 7 is a doctor of science, and 4 is currently in doctoral study. In addition to employees working on administrative jobs and archive technicians' jobs, all employees of the centre that is a condition for work have passed a professional archival exam. The report, as we can see, also states that the scope of the job requires an even greater number of employees than the one the centre now has, as reported by the competent Ministry of Culture. It is certainly necessary to consider the opportunities available to the ministry and try to solve this employment problem in order to make the centre work even better and better. In this report, as we can see, all the publications are listed, and the collection of documents and materials from various projections, and so on, this memorial documentation centre is the one that all those false testimony comes from our neighbouring republics or so on. The republic has been denied. In view of the prevention of materials collected in liberating operations, but which are bought out by individuals, it is clear that the events of the Homeland War, which are said to have been fair, acquittal Homeland War, and I would have liked that colleagues who relaxed in the debates about Ustashas and Partisans spoke more about the archeic material that was deposited and from which it was seen who was the aggressor and who was who. It is impossible to fake history because of this centre, because it has everything in it, from the orders of all Corpses, armies that attacked the Croatian state, to certain headquarters of territorial defenses, to all those videos, images, publications and broochs issued by the Krajina army as well as the Serb army. So this is a commendable material that actually clearly presents and speaks about what happened in the Republic of Croatia, so that no one can say from these documents that the citizens of war happened, but the aggression of the Republic of Croatia. This... The centre is the value Croatia has, from which it draws all its arguments and justifications and from which future generations should learn history, what happened in Croatia, and not to draw attention, to some topics that are absolutely not suitable today in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that by continuing to cooperate with all institutions we will prove what is true, but also write true history from these materials that have been collected, most in the liberating operations, which the institutions have examined, have knowledge, but many times they do not use them, because they are probably ideologically removed from the reality that occurred in the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club supports this report as well as further works and improves the Memorial Documentation Centre with a desire to continue, historical books in the Republic of Croatia are filled from the very clear evidence that is archived in... Thank you for everything you have done for the Republic of Croatia through these collected materials and we wish you further successful work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55348	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55349	Jadranko Prlic, Bruno Stojic, Slobodan Praljak, Milivov Petković, Valentin Čorić, Berislav Pušić. They are Croats from the BIH who are sitting at this moment, chama in the HAG and who, with impatience or expectations of the country, are waiting for the 29th of next month, when they will finally be given the verdict. Otherwise, they are accused as six of participating in an international joint criminal enterprise, along with our first president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. The Memorial documentation centre is necessary precisely because of these things, to prove the innocence of Croatian people in Croatia but I will dare say so in the area of BIH. We forgot a little bit when they were 1,000 young people in '91. They came to Croatia and helped defend their homeland, which is also their homeland, and then they were good to us. Today, they're a little bit forgotten, a little in the seal. Well, unfortunately, the crown proof of this process is one I will dare say the forged war log of Ratko Mladic, where, in fact, who will judge, that is, decide on the verdict of our Croatian indictees, who today, will repeat the chama in the HAG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55350	Replication response, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55351	Thank you very much, Vice President. The colleague is clear that these materials at the Memorial Documentation Centre in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the BIH, clearly show the truth which is drawing data from both of them and from each other of the Memorial Documentation Centre, have been clearly delivered to both the judicial authorities and the HAG all that is true. Remove what is being placed on us by both the Republic of Croatia and individuals, as officers of the Croatian Army as well as the Croatian Defence Council. And we believe, as the president of the council and his deposited special decision concluded, put and removed the general doubt, up to two judges remained in what someone did from the BiH, Republika Srpska and Serbia. They can also point out that it is difficult for us to accept that those to whom we helped at the beginning of the Homeland War, who we armed, who we trained, who we provided all the help and during the liberation operations to talk today about the aggression of the Republic of Croatia, at the BIH. That's what's scary, that's what's called a neighbor's thank you for everything we've done for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55352	Now we have Mr. Bull outside the Independent Lists Bridge, not a pardon, an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55353	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today we're talking about a very important topic, it's a center that takes care of the archive, i.e. which the archival structure needs to be examined on the scientific side and preserved by the truth, I was talking about in the beginning myself, but also in the name of the club, but the most important part, in my opinion, is the truth about the Homeland War, because the fact that the politics of the Republic of Croatia, too, wants to twist the truth, so we see also the rise of the monument to the Major who wanted the whole of Bjelovar to be blown up. Who is glorified by the hero, where the Croatian defenders were then killed, civilians in Bjelovar where Vukic often emphasizes the fact that he is twisting the truth. Of course he's a man, we need to be aware who supported the Chetnik movement that was giving speeches in Clay in '95. A year. So the Serbs themselves of the Republic of Serbia from the top of the government have an attempt to twist the truth that is important to preserve the truth about the Homeland War and to leave a mark on the scientific side. But it is very important and remember the times when Parliament's representatives also said that aggression was committed, the Croatian soldier committed aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is absolutely untrue. We really expect these people because in the Homeland War people went, I repeat again, I'm sorry that the story of Ustashas and Partisans started a little while ago, because simply in the Homeland War, all people went to war no matter who they were doing to them, to the Partisans, regardless of their nationality. We have to protect the Homeland War together, and this is the only way we can do it through the Homeland War Memorial Documentation Center to collect data, so we can all go together. And an apology from these parliamentary deputies who then provoked a terrible thesis that The Hague has now taken over at the trial of our defenders in The Hague who have been forgotten for years by the institutions of the Croatian State. A very difficult first-degree verdict is now expected to be second-degree where Croatia is accused of, meaning a joint criminal enterprise and aggression on another country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is absolutely false. I repeat again the Croatian soldier has been liberatingly together with the Croatian Defence Council, because it is the same body and the BiH Army after the Izetbegovic-Tudjman Agreement stopped, the Croatian soldier stopped Ratko Mladic, Vukic, the current president of the Republic of Serbia and others from committing an unremembered crime in the Bihaćko Enclava, and thus we prevented a crime, a Croatian soldier unremembered in this history, much greater than it did in Srebrenica. And that's true. We talk about this truth because many Croatian soldiers gave their lives, their health in the area. The joint body was also always the Croatian Defence Council and the Croatian Army and we must not share it. These are Croatian soldiers who have jointly defended Croatia. The colleague also mentioned earlier that people in these areas were the first, among the first to come to Croatia armed forces and should not be forgotten. I'd like to ask Mr. Nazora if you have information on who's doing a review of the curricular reform, because we don't have an answer yet. We see that individuals, associations, have asked who is doing a review of the curricular reform on the Homeland War issue. Are foreign institutions doing this or are you involved? Do they do it in England or do I not know which other state? This is serious. What remains in the textbooks, and the textbooks must be what is in the archives, the archival structure, and I hope that all documents will be collected as I have spoken and that we will promote this community and the Homeland War in the future. I would like to be in the future now, because the Croatian man can survive in this area. And it's very important to mention again and send a message. Croatian citizens are not haters of other peoples. Again, I stress that we are trimming prominent people of Serbian nationality and of all national minorities. We point them out. Many were in all Croatian troops. In Hos, they gave their life. We have examples. I have an example from my field, where the people of the Serb national minority were in all units and the Hos. Therefore, we are going to give each unit our place and I have not asked the Prime Minister here and why so many halabukas are rising around the 11 members of the Croatian defence forces who have given their lives so that we can have today's system parliamentary. And about the aggressor which unfortunately we have monuments in the whole area which are essentially from Borov settlement, Vukovar to the Knin area, which is sad, where Croatian defenders are offended, where institutions are insulted. But unfortunately, it's obviously political, coalition relations at this point in the HDZ, the SDSS simply can't solve the problem. And I'm really calling on all the parliamentary deputies to let us agree to come back when we talk about this. We can open up the subject of all totalitarian regimes, bow down to all victims. But to open up the topic of World War II when we talk about the Homeland War, it's extremely irresponsible, irresponsible, and mostly of us Parliamentarians no matter who it is. We have, so totalitarian regimes day, so that's what the Council of Europe has given communist, fascist, Nazi, and all victims are trying to bow down from that time. Because simply all totalitarian regimes did not bring good to the Croatian people, and Homeland War is the foundation of the Croatian state and we try to speak of it with truth and pride. So now one question asked you. First it was about the archives in other international courts and in the field did you collect. I see there's an archive everywhere. Many people have archives and private ones. Have you done anything about it all for better scientific research and for the sake of truth. And the second question of course is very important that school textbooks talk about the truth, about the Homeland War and who did the curricular reform that was involved, whether you are involved and who was doing the review are mostly talking about the Homeland War, whether it's done by foreign institutions or whether it's going to work by Croatian institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55354	We have six replicas. First Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj, through these documents that are numbered, we clearly see that he owns the Memorial-documentation centre all that is necessary for the State's Attorney's Office to act, react. In order to prove to those who have been subjected to an abject or abject, that they were executioners or organisers of blood crimes, as was the case... The founder of the Western Slavonia area, '91-'95, is written by the National Assembly of the Serbian region of western Slavonia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The district council of the Serbian region of Western Slavonia, the Parliament of the Municipality of Pakrac, the Assembly of the Municipality of Okucani, the Supreme Defence Council of the Republika Srpska region. So we have special units of the West Slavonia militia and so on. From those documents, so we've got Community Court of Commons, '91-'95. From all these documents, it is clear who organized the Western Slavonia, who organized the camp in Buć, who brought in the doctor... Whoever executed 26 defenders and civilians on Butch, that's all the questions that have the answer from these documents that they haven't, I believe they haven't, been used so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite our calls from the State's Attorney's Office on several occasions in this Croatian House, to this day... Free walks and is not responsible for what he did with premeditation he committed crimes in the organization of Western Slavonia and camp in Buć. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not to list all other destinations where the same thing happened. All documents shall be held by those who were in the units of their criminal forces to the commander and to the perpetrator of the individual crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55356	Thank you, fellow Djakic. Time's up, thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55357	Of course crime doesn't get old. That is the rule they were called upon when Croatian defenders were arrested, when they were persecuted. Well, I don't see any reason, so not only can the State's Attorney's Office work on the matter of Croatian defenders, without justifying any crime. Of course, it is difficult and tiring to listen to women raped in Vukovar who are hard and hard to give their confessions about those moments of hardship that say that their rapists are now living in the city of Vukovar. Of course, this file if it testifies and documentes the truth, so of course the State's Attorney's Office, because the crime doesn't go out of date, that it should react. But they were more concerned about how to arrest us as many of our generals, again I repeat more words because it is simple, it is the hardest time that has lived, how to court European officials and arrest the most prominent Croatian sons and persecute them around the world while these Chetniks, the organizers of the rebellion walk freely with Croatia. Apparently the institutions were turned, mainly the State Attorney's Office at all levels was turned more towards how to comply with the Croatian policy which was advocacy and obedience to The Hague. It is even more painful that we have chapter 23, Serbia has opened chapter 23 of the pre-accession negotiations, Croatia has not blocked, and they have received the conditions of the small Hague, jurisdiction throughout the territory. Croatian defenders will be in Belgrade and Serbia's jurisdiction. Here it's twisted, for the first time in history, the criminals will judge, the aggressors essentially, the victims and the defenders. And we need to stop it, our policy under emergency.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55358	Thank you. Mr. Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55359	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Nazor with the Deputy, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj. I'll ask you one question as a Croatian defender. What do you think about trying to classify the Homeland War as a civil war on this territory and what do you think of those in Croatian politics that mention equalising the blame for the conflict in the Balkans? Do you think it's blocking the intention of repatriation or war damage to Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55360	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55361	The Homeland War was not a civil war, Croatia attacked JNA and Serbia then within those frameworks, that is the fact. But there is, of course, this catch of war damage, 45 billion euros, and I call indeed on Croatian diplomacy, the Croatian government, all who are responsible, because we are calling for good relations and no one is against bad relations, that they clearly and loudly tell Vucic, the President of Serbia, that Croatia is paying 45 billion euros in the damage he has done, which the army then did, and there can be no civil war. The civil war to speak of when the entire army, then the JNA stands aside from Serbia against the Croatian Parliament's decision on independence is a story for small children because everything was legitimate, founded but the fact that many in Croatian politics must apologize. Well, here are the stories in this House that there's been an aggression against BiH, that it's a civil war. What civil war are we talking about? So 1/3 of Croatia wanted to separate it and turn it into so-called The landscape. With the intention and purpose of the absolute blockade of Croatia, in fact what Vucic said in Glina will remain little around Zagreb, the current president of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we must not buy these stories, it was a punitive, just war, a war which basically defended the Croatian state with honorable victory operations of the Croatian army unmarked in these areas and any other objection is absolutely against Croatian interest and lies and deception.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55362	Thank you. Mr. Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bully was talking about our six, meaning the six from the BIC who was charged with the HAG. I would just like to point out the following when we talk about it, to be very careful and precise when we talk about it, what is the alleged role of the Republic of Croatia. Last year, Justice Minister Ante Sprlje asked your party for the Hague court's appeal council to make Croatia a friend of the court. That's denied. But on account of the Hague court, i.e. The appeal council has been made clear that the first-degree decision applies only to the six. That there is no responsibility for the state in this case of the Croatian state, nor that the former president, first president, Tudjman, the defence minister of Susak and Chief of Staff Bobetko spoke. This is very clear in the reasoning of the Board of Appeal after Croatia asked to be a friend of the court. So there is no responsibility of the Croatian state and we must insist on that. Of course, we want our Croats released, knowing that they will repeat themselves for the third time in this Croatian Parliament, where the Croats were first engaged in the defence of the BIH, are the first victims of the JNA and Serbia aggression against the BIH, the first rebels in the BIH and they have defended the active and military and political because they were in a referendum for independent BIH, only BIH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55364	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55365	Comrade Kovac, you are a diplomat, and you know that diplomacy is largely to blame for this situation in all aspects of the Homeland War, both in the field of BIH and Croatia, that we simply, we didn't do what we were supposed to do, we were simply acting in a courtship and talking about the war in BIH, I don't know your interpretation. I repeat, you are a diplomat, as far as I am not an expert on this, but as far as I read it, these are very difficult qualifications for the Republic of Croatia, where the very top of the Republic of Croatia is being accused, of a joint criminal enterprise and aggression against the BiH. I wish this wasn't true. But those six people weren't fighting a private war either. They waged war for Croatia and managed troops, I am not entering here into individual responsibilities... but not a private war any general, not one of the soldiers led to the general led to Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't justify crimes. We've always been in that position to retreat to get in touch with diplomacy, so we're Serbs. Well, you know, you remember, you were in diplomacy. What we needed in order to open chapter 23. Arrest, locate everything you can and then tell our people we still need. The paperwork's gone. I don't know how many. Well, politics is official, came out Mr. Vladimir Seks, this now party leader, one of the advisers, so to speak, the word that is most morbid in Croatia's history. Locate transfer, arrest, transfer, process, whom Gotovina, Markac. We didn't defend our interests just to court or even to defend our territory. We weren't allowed to declare the economic belt. It was so long-term, let alone in relationships, that the Croatian soldier did not wage a private war. The Homeland War is also honorable in the area of BiH and Croatia as well. And these people therefore... pain in Croatia as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55366	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Varda has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55367	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On the one hand, colleague Bulj, we have this report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre,... In fact, documents and memoirs, which I hope for with special seriousness, you judge credibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, I have your testimony as a defender in the BIH and your statement today in the debate, that in this House, as the fact has heard, a single representative or representative of Croatia as an aggressor to the BIH. What is worth to us now is this documentation, all of these facts, when I am interested in your opinion if these same representatives, who are sitting in the assembly today, are not present when we discuss this report, and I have not heard an apology for actually eating at the expense of Croatia. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55368	Thank you, Mr. Varda. Mr. Bull has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55369	We live in a democratic society, but it is a lie and a lie that Croatia has committed an aggression on BIH and God forbid that this fact is written somewhere because it is a lie, it is a pain to heaven, it is a pain to heaven from those who are underground, from those who are not among us, from those who have allowed us to have parliamentary documentation today. And of course, you have to admit the mistakes and you have to apologize. Because the Croatian soldier has contributed much to the BIH in defence of large-scale Serbian aggression, and we do not need to talk about Croatia. So, we are a democratic society, we are an open society, but to insult the foundations of the Croatian state, where we have created both the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croats in the diaspora and the Croats within Croatia and now return them again and share something worse with Ustasha and Partisans. And those who said at the time that aggression was indeed minimal to those who allowed them to be in Parliament should be excused, and these were killed by Croatian defenders both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55370	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55371	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, I answered the line because in my opinion you mentioned one key word and it is related to the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre. Since he has seven doctors of science and four PhDs, four are in the process. Therefore, there are highly professional people, quality people who can contribute to the Croatian education system to communicate the truth about the Homeland War in particular about this parent science of history. I see the Memorial Center also participated in various seminars of the Section for Teachers and Teachers on the Homeland War. Last year there was one such gathering, I don't know if it's been held or not this year. Because it's the only way to convey the truth. Here, too, counterpart Varda spoke there are no those who speak the opposite when we talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, it doesn't matter. What matters is what we pass on to young generations, to young generations. What is done in Croatian schools. I think the Koprivnica-Crysing County has made this one move, because the law allows through founders, through the Ministry of Science Education Agency to participate in schools and other persons in the educational process. Here's the school where I worked we invited the defenders to testify to young people from direct experience about their participation in the Homeland War. So, what is crucial and what has been seen in this expert meeting is that very little is actually known about the injuries of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in general about the Homeland War in BiH. Otherwise, my colleague Raguž, after this in his debate, speaks more about it, but the only one who can contribute to the truth or who can contribute most to the truth to the Homeland War and the dignity of the defenders is the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre, because we have nothing to be ashamed of. And the most important is the objective reporting of all those events that took place in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55372	Thank you. Mr. Bull, answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55373	So I would agree with you that the Memorial-documentation centre in the Homeland War, Mr. Nazor and his associates, the state's triba provides them with resources if both greater and human potential and material means are to be true, because this is a very important topic regarding the foundation of the Croatian state and that the truth is ultimately in Croatian textbooks. That the documentation set is complete and the material that is transmitted to textbooks about the Homeland War for the sake of truth. That's why I mentioned this part of the Homeland War that's the most important part in the curricula reform. We can go back to the Ustashas and the Partisans and talk about this, like. I wouldn't want to look back on this subject at all, but this part of the Homeland War triba means doing it perfectly correct to be absolutely true. And I'm really interested in being a parliamentary representative who was involved in making this and who's doing our review? And what will our children learn? He wants to learn the foundations of new documents, or he's going to learn about someone who's currently suffering from a political situation that comes to mind about the Homeland War, where he's going to be mentioned as a citizen, where, I think, I can do whatever he wants. And in fact, it's the most important thing that remains in the textbooks, the books of history, the documentation and what we write will be the truth. Because everything will work, everything will work to twist the truth. We also see the official policy of the Republic of Serbia when a man who supported the Chetnik movement, Vojislav Seselj, gave a speech in Glina, that Croatia would only be around Zagreb. Yes, a Chetnik. He spoke publicly, erecting a monument to a man who had lifted up, Bjelovar intended only to blow up one piece. Most of them failed the Law on Croatian Defence. So you want to, Vulin is publicly telling the truth. So we just have to tell the truth, just tell the truth. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55374	Thank you, sir. And finally, Mr. Glasnović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55375	Dear Mr. Bully, I fully agree with your presentations. I'd just pull two key things. First Homeland War. What we translated from that huge English-language reading to military schools, other institutions out there. I don't think there's a single book on Homeland War in English that brought that personal story closer to the readers outside... I don't know, maybe that's what Mr. Nazor's gonna talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We still don't have the Homeland War Museum. Our mistake was to sign our cooperation with The Hague at all, that's unimaginable. No sovereign state would do that. And we're being lectured on war law, on the international war law of the country that committed genocide in the colonies. And it's unfortunately our sad destiny. In BiH, what is the co-operation with us and the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina? It has been proven that in BiH 97% of the crimes were committed by Chetniks and Chetnik formations who took off the five-pointer and put on a cocardo. You have more than 100,000 names written down. So much for this war, the Homeland, the defense war. I'd appeal to Mr. Bull if we had more fun with World War II because he didn't pass, he's going out. Today, Serbs are running a historic offensive against the Republic of Croatia. Serbia has a War Crimes Commission after June of '44. A year, after June of '44. where thousands were written, thousands of communist victims after the incursion of the 3rd Ukrainian front. In the end in... and the media are blocked nonstop, scientific works are blocked, such as historian Blanca Matkovic, who wrote a book on the terror of OZNA in Dalmatia and on the terror of Partizan criminals in Imotska krajina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, what about returning the archives from Belgrade? There's a state archive downstairs. It's got to come back. What are the Yugoslav mentally afraid of? I'm holding in my hand a list from A to G. You have thousands of UDBA associates. It's just one list. The files are down there, they have code names, and they're afraid of it. They're afraid of code names, how much money they've drawn, and that they've collaborated with the secret services of Yugoslavia against their people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55376	Time Mr. Glasnović, time You'll show me that. I'm just curious. [[Invadica Glasnović: Here's only one list.]] Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55377	I would like to invite my dear colleague Glasnović, here and you to the public, to our fellow parliamentary representatives, to the words of the legendary Bruno Busic. The Croatian state will become when together the sons of Partisans and the sons of Ustasha are united, believing that the Homeland War is the foundation of the Croatian state that we have joined together in the trenches and defended the Croatian state, regardless of those who were against, were against, irrelevant, not even national, so many of them were in Croatian troops We are talking about the Homeland War, the topic of totalitarian regimes, we can open it and talk about it, but the Homeland War is muddying the divisions from before, I don't know who's in the interest. We can talk about an archive that's opened here, just the MOST suggested archives until the '90s, we can fight in another way but here we're talking about the Homeland War. We here have to tell the truth about the Homeland War as you said in foreign languages to promote the truth about the Homeland War, in all the media the truth about the Homeland War, but we first need to know who's writing our history. And who puts history in our textbooks. We need to make history based on the truth and documentation found in the Memorial-documentation centre based on science, scientists. That's what we need to talk about and the divisions, the Ustashas, the Partisans, we can have a thematic session about the victims, about people who need to give away their pies, and about criminals who have committed crimes, but that's the general, a whole other topic. We must fight here to protect the Homeland War and the truth about the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55378	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Raguž, here you are, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55379	Mr. Vice President, Director of Nazor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues The report of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee stressed that the 2016 Memorial Documentary Centre for the Homeland War is a thorough and comprehensive report. [[He didn't say anything. We'll stop time. Go ahead, go ahead, apologize.]] Such an assessment is based on the fact that the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is not only an archival institution, a specialized archive, but also a scientific institution that interprets, based on materials from the Homeland War, through scientific works and studies, the Homeland War in the area of the Republic of Croatia and BiH. It is important to note that the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War in Croatia was founded in 2005, so 13 years after other peoples in the area of the former Yugoslavia founded similar institutions. There have been three similar institutions in Belgrade working since 1992 and in BiH in Banja Luka, the Republic Centre for War, War Crimes and Missing Persons of Republika Srpska and Sarajevo, the Bosniak Institute for the Research of Crimes against Humanity and International Law. What I want to emphasise and what is said in the report of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is the fact that there are 18 employees here in the centre of Zagreb, there is a Croatian National War in BiH founded in 2013 with 4 employees, in Banja Luka and in Sarajevo working over 40 employees individually in both of these mentioned institutions. It says so, and so is the assessment of the Ministry of Culture that it is important for this delay and because of the fact that the Homeland War, its causes, characteristics and consequences are something that is completely justified by the reason of the dispute between the peoples in the area of the former Yugoslavia, it will remain so that it is necessary to come more seriously to the investigation of the Homeland War in BiH, which means, therefore, the staff of science and all others who can realise such an ambition. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War in Croatia is not only a successful state institution, it has also shown by its work that it is also a valuable national institution from the position of Croats in BiH with the Ministry of Croatian Defence, the Central State Office for Croatians outside Croatia and other institutions in the Republic of Croatia. It is too important for us that there is this dimension that it is a national institution that also has a relationship with the Homeland War in the BiH area. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War proved this fact by supporting the defendants of the Croatians in the Hague process, then supporting lawyers and accused Croats in the BiH court by working with the Croatian National War in BiH through joint publication of books, then joint meetings such as the 9th state expert meeting of teachers and history teachers in March in Makarska where the topic was the Homeland War and the role of Croats in the Homeland War in the BiH area. When mentioned here, therefore, a recent verdict to the Hague Six is important to say in the Croatian Assembly because of a series of doubts about what it will have and what consequences it will have, the fact that the Bosniak political thought had a key thesis that is not sufficiently known to the political public, not only the Republic of Croatia, but also in the BiH. That the BIH issue is primarily a Serb Bosniak issue and that, within that framework, the consensus of the Serbian and Bosniak sides should seek a future for the BIH. This is why processes in the Hague court and in the BiH court are used to realise this ambition of Bosniak politics, which unfortunately was supported by the international community through peace agreements in the BiH. Depending on the fact that the international community will make a turn in terms of the justified request of the Croatian people in the BIH, to be equal with Bosniaks and Serbs, I think because of the fact that the Hague court has shown particularly a series of recent rulings and this political dimension. That both the verdict and the Hague six will be liberating if the requirements of the Croats for equality in the BIH are respected, because objectively, in addition to the construction of the doctrine to the joint criminal enterprise, there are no facts that can be brought by individuals who are convicted, therefore, political and military officials of the Croatian people with concrete crimes, a broad interpretation of the joint criminal enterprise is trying to find a structure that would lead to committed crimes in the BIH. I'm going back to what's most important to say. Therefore, the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War needs stronger support from the Croatian government to employ a number of Croatian scientists to deal with the topic of the Homeland War, thus providing assistance in the development of historical science, contemporary historical sciences in the Republic of Croatia, but also to help the Croatian people in the BiH and Croatian minorities and Croatian emigrants. The topic of the Homeland War will remain something that will continue to be the subject of a dispute among the nations, and we should not be surprised. I congratulate, therefore, the director of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War in BIH which is successfully managed all these years by the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre and which contributes to contemporary historical science in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55380	Thank you, too, for putting up with that jam while you were talking. I'd pray if you could go talk outside to those who have something to say to you, so you don't bother the speakers. Mr. Ljubic asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I want to find out my colleague Raguž that the work done by the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre is also doing the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War of Mostar and that you are leading are doing one job of national historical importance. Unfortunately, your work is not properly followed, therefore, by the Croatian media community, and unfortunately, as we see here today in the Assembly, neither Croatian politics. So is it possible that the parliamentary representative of the opposition in the context of the adoption of the law to Croatian defenders, are we now going to pay all those who killed women and children in Ahmići? Every even under-informed Croatian citizen knows of a crime in Ahmići where therefore, an entirely legitimate action by the HVO has hatched and where individuals used it and committed a terrible crime. But the same day a crime was committed against the Croats in Trussina, who knows about it here. Who knows here in the Croatian public that these are 14 dead Croats and Bosniaks in '92. Mr. in Mostar who was thrown into the garbage dump of Uborak and Sutrina? Who knows here about the crimes in... The village? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croats were the same year the Ahmics were. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the fact is that Croatian politics and the Croatian media scene did not behave in an equally responsible, nationalally responsible manner, tells of the fact that today's Stigma has been established in the domestic but also in the world public on Croatians who have actually committed a crime... Cleanup, and let me remind you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, at the time of Ahmic in central Bosnia, there were 8,000 Croatian defenders versus 80,000 Bosnian army soldiers, and who is the victim and who is the perpetrator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55382	Mr. Ragug's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55383	Unfortunately, as you said, Mr Ljubic, the media during the Homeland War and in years after the war partly influenced by NGOs, and partly under the influence and international structures engaged through diplomacy, in Croatia and the BiH, imitated the patterns of the most significant states in the international community that had their political goals when the war in Croatia and BiH was at stake. And unfortunately, not understanding the public, is the consequence of just such media manipulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55384	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55385	The Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre collects a variety of documentation and I would, and so would my party, HRAST, would like to stress that this documentation is used in such a way that Serbia will finally apologize to Croatia for the aggression against Croatia. And finally, for the compensation of war damage, which we have here, we simply don't experience anymore. We just don't mention what's logical anymore. Slovenians used Croatia's pre-accession objections with the EU in a way that they got what they got in arbitration. Unfortunately, Croatia does not use Serbia as a candidate for the EU today, that it is a little squeezed, that is, to get the opportunity to apologize to Serbia for aggression against Croatia, that is, the ultimate goal of compensation for war damage. I would also mention here that I would like to ask an esteemed colleague whether or not the political legal consequences of a possible verdict to the Croatian six in The Hague and whether we are ready for these conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55386	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55387	So, the legal and political consequences of the Hague-based six in Bosnia and Herzegovina in one part because of the ambitions of the opposing political forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, above all, of Bosniaks who seek to maintain the unequal position of the Croatian people as it is today, independent of constitutional equality, will affect further political life in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina will simply not allow such a relationship. What is also important to the Bosniak policy when the ruling to the Hague six is to reject the so-called interest of the Republic of Croatia towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entire campaign that has been conducted throughout the years in the public of the Republic of Croatia and in this Parliament and Bosnia and Herzegovina has just been aimed at this goal. So, regardless of the verdict of the Hague six, the Croatian people will remain persistent in their efforts to achieve equality with Bosniaks and Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55388	Thank you. We're going to the last line. Dear colleague Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55389	Your Honor! I welcome this invitation from you to bring scientists to the Institute but especially Croatian scientists who are aware of the Homeland War, who will speak in the right way and who will not, like some Chedomir and some Kudrova, be inserted as intelligence officers of the former SAO provinces, to conceal what was true in the Homeland War, and you and Mr. Nazor are present here, and many of us have witnessed last year on a joint board of Croatian war veterans and with the presence of Mr. Nazor, Mr. Lučić, with the presence of all those who wanted to correct the historical injustice which seems to be the late President Tudjman, General Bobetka and Susak. Many who were on the Justice Committee on that day have remained on track to defend the truth about the Homeland War and can't help but talk here about those who left, who left and who didn't want to be with us on the same side in defense of the Homeland War and are on the other side of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55390	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55391	Unfortunately, everything you said is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55392	Thank you. Here is another final address for the respected Ante Nazor, director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55393	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs! Here, I have noted your questions, I see that the marble in the Assembly, that there are obviously other important topics ahead, but don't mind me taking advantage of my time and warning some important topics among other things are relevant here to your questions. Of course, the history is interdisciplinary and that we cannot interpret history without taking into account both international law and thanks to the question in any case there are experts who have given their opinion, in the end we also have the ruling of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, in particular Article 426, which clearly speaks about the character of war and which has repeatedly asked the question of the nature of the war in Croatia whether it is civil or it is a major Serbian aggression in Croatia, and then Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think there are any more doubts, Article 426 is very clear here. I began to answer the question of the esteemed Commissioner Reiner about the reader, who was published in December 2016 in Thessaloniki, to whom some Croatian historians and associates are involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55394	A colleague, just a little bit. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues for a moment of attention to allow the guest to speak normally here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55395	Among other things, the person who conducts the process in the professional working group of corricula history. So I think it is very important to warn of the following fact, the question here was who will be doing the review of this curricula, given that public issues have been asked the defence portal, let's say, and that these questions have not been answered. The other day news appeared in the press that a review of the curicula of history will be carried out by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. I see that this has caused unrest in the circles that are doing this curricula, so I keep in mind that in the reader that was listed here, and so much more so that Vukovar Hiroshima means Croatian and Serbian madness, it means equal responsibility and guilt for the destruction of Vukovar. In that reader when it comes to an attack on Vukovar, who attacked him? Yugoslav People's Army, Territorial Defence and Paramilitary. It does not specify which and whose militia units, whose territorial defence is that it is the territorial defence of Serbia, are Serbian paramilitary troops. The attack on Dubrovnik has been mentioned that it is being attacked by Montenegrin paramilitary troops, although the legal units of Montenegro are there, the MUP among other things is not mentioned as being attacked by Serbian troops from eastern Herzegovina. The scandalous statement mentioned here that the escalation of the war in Croatia, i.e. the Yugoslav crisis, was escalating after the international recognition of Croatia, which means '92. years like that in '91. There isn't a year, like nothing happened. The reader skipped important dates such as the first conflict held in Pakrac. Death or murder of 13 Croatian police officers in one day 2.5. So how will you understand the causal consequential links the beginning of open aggression if one such event is silenced in one day. 13 officers were killed in Croatia, which is what readers do. There's no mention of an attack on the Ban Courts, an assassination attempt on President Tudjman, not even mentioning 8.10. There's not much to mention. I'm not going to talk here about factographic mistakes, that you don't know when it's... He was in Croatia, that he didn't know when she was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wasn't finished in '96. It's '98. You don't even mention it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm talking about one content that's completely scientifically inappropriate, but it hurts me more why that's the case. The question here was whether our center was involved in the production of a caracule. It's not in phase one. We were rejected when we were supposed to be expert reviewers, but, of course, we participated in a public debate. However, what is symptomatic and I ask you to pay attention to this, and I am willing to face anyone else who has been in that debate, we are very clearly told, you said, remarks, and we will adopt them. And who we are in this professional working group, when none of them are concerned with modern history, and that's why it's important who does our review. Here, I am grateful to everyone for staying in Croatia. I think it would be a shame if the review of Croatian language and history was done outside Croatia. But the question arises as to how it is possible for one such reader to complete his process, and that none of the Croatian historians who participated in the design of this book could have found a consistent consultation with institutions such as the Croatian Institute of History, or our center that we are dealing with modern history. I've done one 10, 15 points here, but here's how things are, we don't have time to just tell you what data they presented in a reader's English language for teachers of Southeastern Europe's history. And what did those teachers after? and what these teachers will have after reading that reading, what they will have, how to learn about the war in Croatia. [[Intruder: Please be correct, please indeed for peace.]] Neither who's the cause nor the chronology will be able to tell, and the consequences we've heard through the media are the causes of the angle. Ignoring what fellow MPs have said about working in the BIH, of course there is no comment here on the causes of that war. Here is the silence that the Croats here have said in a legal and military sense that the BIH would survive from the defence of the BIH from participating in the referendum, from the liberation operation, there is not a word in this reader's mind, but the Croats are put together with the Serbs, as carriers of the separatist aspirations to separate the territory of the BIH. I would only ask the question which is separatist in that all decisions of the international community, the internal division of the BIH, were signed by the Croats. What is separatist about Croatians going to the referendum and supporting an independent BIH? Please, as Parliamentarians, there has been a lot of discussion here about history. If you're going to discuss the BIH war in BIH, don't ignore the latest literature, it's that there are 3000 pages. and 3 books are in play, from Jadranka Prlic, contributions to the history of Herceg Bosnia, from Mr Mate Arlovic on the constitutional legal nature of the establishment of the Croatian community Herceg Bosnia and Croatian Republic, these days we translate it into English. In fact, the translation is finished, I expect next week that the book will go to the press and the book by Professor Miroslav Tudjman The other side of Rubicon on the political platform of President Alija Izetbegovic. Look at the transcripts, look at the sources, and only then can we get into the debate. I'm telling you this on my example, because while I was only reading the paper, I had a completely wrong picture of events in the BIH. These are too serious things to discuss on the basis of imposed perceptions, perceptions imposed in the media, believe me, there are sources here and when we read these books we can discuss, respecting all other authors and literature. The most important thing is in that literature, which is sources. Is the memoir material or the documents and transcripts of the sessions, platforms and declarations of certain parties, persons etc. Please, it's too serious. Of course, I said it wasn't a civil war. But I'm less interested in what various officials outside Croatia say. We also have a formulation of civil war at Croatian universities. Some teachers have the same formula. We're not looking for anything, we're looking for a debate and the facts are being respected. In particular, therefore, people who are bothered by the fact that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is doing a review, even asking if there were even professional people there for this, practically, having the same thesis that there was a civil war in Croatia. Major Tepic, who is asked the question here, and that is interesting, you have no content in this reader and you do not have a date that is very important for understanding the history of the Homeland War, July 18, '91. year, decision to withdraw JNA from Slovenia. So the question arises, whose interests does JNA work for after 18 July? Whose interests Major Tepic defended by blowing up a warehouse in Bjelovar. These are things that are neglected, which are very important. The answer to the question about the work of the center and books in English is very clear in our report, we have ten bilingual books since 2016. Here, we have 2 new ones in English, including Mr. Mate Arlovic's book, so we take care of that too. As for capacity building, I am grateful to the Ministry of Culture, because we have obtained the possibility of hiring 3 new people in state archives. One is already employed in the State Archives of Slavonski Brod, because it is very important that we have a relationship with people who will only deal with the Homeland War. The Slavonski Brod area is very important for both the Bosnian Posavina and all these processes that are being conducted now and for the Croats from Orashje. And of course when we talk about expecting a second-degree verdict, I can only repeat what I've been repeating all these years when I've been giving a report, and I'm talking about facts I can't and I won't comment on the legal aspect of the verdict. And of course none of us have ever protected or justified the crimes committed, but talking about the joint criminal enterprise of Croatia is the thing that is in the thick collegiate with facts. If it hadn't been for Croatia, there would have been no Bosnia and Herzegovina. I just said why. The book of Jadranka Prlic speaks of the functioning of Herceg Bosnia and Mate Arlovic of constitutional and legal justification for the establishment of such a community that was not outside the borders and aimed at preserving the Croatian people in a situation where the central government in BiH had no means or opportunity to protect Croats. And if the Croats hadn't organised themselves, if they hadn't prevented Serbian aggression in the Glamoc, Grohov area, from Glamoc and Grahov to Livno, what would have happened to the south of Croatia and what would have happened to that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is where the media is mentioned. Unfortunately, you could never read in the media in Croatia that Croatian forces were only '95. More than 5,000 km2 of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been released in years. And when we talk about the legal aspects of punishing individuals, then we have to be very specific. One is the responsibility for participating in the rebellion and the organisation of the rebellion, and the other is the charge of war crimes. It's a matter of justice that can prove it. The people mentioned here doubtless were the organizers of armed rebellion and were involved in an armed rebellion. And the last answer here was the question of the defenders of the Serb national minority, and I agree that these are people who should be particularly highlighted. President Tudjman is a member of the Croatian Parliament in '96. In January, he mentioned approximately 9,000 defenders of Serbian ethnicity as participants of the Homeland War in Croatian Army and police units. We held a meeting in Opatija for teachers of history, i.e. this year as a special guest, we had a defender, a Croatian defender of Serbian nationality from Vukovar, the precious Misic. And his words at that gathering were very warmly accepted. Therefore, we should take care of all those who have defended Croatia regardless of nationality. Here's the thing about all these questions, I'm at my disposal any time. I'm sorry I didn't have time to read a dozen, fifteen points from that reading book. But why should I read it to you? So that you can understand what can happen if Croatian history is especially a modern history for which few people are engaged on the basis of a source, and we keep the original material that is trapped in the operations of Flash and Storm there is no dilemma about it. And what it could lead to if we had a review, this isn't about outcomes and some methodological nature, it's about the contents of that curricula. What would this lead to if foreigners reviewed our Croatian history? I deeply hope that this will not happen, and I'm actually amazed that there was a question at all about it because it's a matter of self-respect for every country. Thank you for your attention. I think I've managed to answer all the questions you've asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55396	Thank you. We have three replicas. [[Applause.]] First of all, he's a respected colleague of Pernar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55397	Dear colleague, you said that historical auditism is at work and I agree with you. However, the work is not only about historical revisionism related to the Homeland War, but also about historical revisionism related to the role of HDZ in the subsequent destruction and satirization of our country, in the destruction that led to the escape of young people and old age, families with children who led to people digging through containers, to people waiting in front of the lines for the soup kitchen, to the fact that in the privatisation that HDZ spent as in war wind, more jobs were missing than in war wind. And I'd like to look back on your words when you say we're not looking for anything but just a discussion and the facts are revealed. However, thanks to the outdated interpretation of the Supreme and Constitutional Court, no war profiter who, while others spilling his blood, will be punished by millions. It turns out neither Ivo Sanader will be punished, former HDZ president nor Anto Jelavić, president of the HDZ BiH, nor Djuro Gavrilovic, nor any other tycoon and privatisational actually profiteers. That's one big shame. Unfortunately, there's no such thing as shame here. We are constantly coming back to the Homeland War, and in Croatia today we are fighting another kind of war, a hybrid war in which we are attacked by vultures from America, united with domestic collaborators and who are planning to quickly squeeze big money, while Croatian workers and Croatian companies will be cut off. About that kind of war that's war I'd call it a new time that wasn't conducted by weapons, but information and money, unfortunately, in your speech, was not a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55398	Thank you, colleague Pernar. This wasn't a topic. The theme is the report on the work of the Memorial Documentary Center of the Homeland War. So, fellow Nazor all that he did and wanted to talk about the Homeland War and what was connected to the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55399	Here's to what the President of the Parliament said, I'll just point out that I wasn't talking about revisionism, I was talking about distorting the facts, about relativating responsibility when it comes to Vukovar. And otherwise review is something that is desirable in science, because science is not a water stand. In accordance with the new documents, we are obliged to review history and these claims we made today that I may have told you in five, ten years we will have to reconsider if new elections come. In that sense, as an audit, I don't see anything negative. However, it is necessary in the scientific process.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55400	Thank you. Another replica, dear fellow Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55401	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Nazor, I don't understand, but I'm actually aware that in this country of '45. Until the 1990s, there was a history that corresponded to that time, to those communists who wrote false history, and we had to learn a lot of things that weren't true. However, this continues from the 1990s to today, so I wonder who these historians who are not in that reader you mentioned saw these mistakes and saw that it was not a civil war but a war that we know where it came from and how it came from. My suggestion is that young historians who have been from the 1990s today have completed their doctorate in history begin to write history true, not those who have completed their doctorate in that former Yugoslavia, which most people today regret. And you're actually writing all the lies and they actually want to spread the lies and deepen further the way they were. Because they were never interested in the truth about Croatia and the Croats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55402	Okay. You've got to take this. You should take this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55403	I can only say, I have nothing to add here. We're not even going to call ourselves here personally. I always speak in principle, but I will take the opportunity to thank all of you for the support you've shown this year with the work of our center. Because here are the media, and some are very persistent that this center should be abolished. Their argument for abolishing the centre is that we are the agi pro official state policy that has the task of defending some state truth, and all those others are progressive, advanced and free. And we even go to that level to say that what we do should be accepted in the international public and even in Serbia. So I use the opportunity to answer to all of them that what our centre was doing, the books that we published specifically after Gotovina and Markac's first conviction that he accepted that from the court in The Hague, that the facts that we presented were also accepted in the International Court of Justice, and even in Serbia by scientists who have courage, had to talk about the process from the beginning, from the cause through chronology. And the late Srdja Popovic, let's say his references to the breakup of Yugoslavia, to everything that's happened are actually identical to what we're saying. Well, I took advantage of the opportunity to thank all of you and simply to those who speak in this way without reading or considering the sources, to look at some literature and judgments of the International Court of Justice. We are talking about Croatia's ruling against Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55404	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55405	Thank you very much. Mr. Nazor, you answered a number of questions that I asked on behalf of the club and individually and indeed the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War should be the basis for scientific history, to write the truth about the Homeland War. Thank you for talking about curriculative reform on the Homeland War issue. The fact is that it is expected of the Republic of Serbia to celebrate and to twist the truth in particular what is being done at the head is Mr. President, i.e. Chetnik follower Vukic. But as you comment, that's what I asked you, I'm going to ask you a question that Prime Minister Plenkovic is silent on my question in the Parliament, at the statement by his fellow coalition partner Milorad Pupovac, who compares the hero of the Homeland War, General Janko Bobetko with Slobodan Milosevic, Slavko Dokmanovic and convicted criminal Milan Babic. You didn't answer that question. I'm talking about the first man of the Croatian government this House has chosen. The time has passed for us, too, when the Homeland War was muddy to court European officials. Unfortunately, however, Serbia's pre-accession negotiations did not report that jurisdiction is legal over Serbia, on Croatian defenders, that the aggressor and criminals will judge Croatian defenders. It's a matter of national security. Please answer this question in front of the Croatian public and once again I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic to respond to these accusations by Pupovec against General Bobetko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55406	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55407	Your Honor, I'm sure Prime Minister Plenkovic will answer that question for you. I can tell you my opinion that General Bobetko is not a criminal. I can also tell you that sources clearly confirm where the aggression started, which is the role of Slobodan Milosevic and the Serbian leadership in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. That's clear, so I don't see what you can say more clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55408	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55409	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I join the compliments on the work of Director Nazor and the staff of his institution, however, I would like to add one appeal. It's not enough for me, I don't exclude myself from that criticism. It's not enough for us to tell ourselves how important it is to spread the truth about the Homeland War. We must produce much more, encourage scientists to write more about the Homeland War in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and include institutions in the world. To include foreign scientific centres in writing the truth about the Homeland War, and we have opportunities in the academic community to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55410	Your Honor, I have nothing to add. That's what we're working on. I will remind you once again that the English - language center has managed to respond to perhaps the most important points that were then. It is related to the first-degree verdict of General Gotovina and Markac. In English, we also published a book that is related to the, that is, the attack and occupation of Vukovar. We also have a book on Storm. And here is thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which you once led and Mr. Stier we managed this book by Mr. Doctor of Science Mate Arlovic, which I find very important that the world would understand at all these constitutional and legal positions and the nature of the establishment of the Croatian Community of Herceg Bosnia, namely the Croatian Republic of Herceg Bosnia, that these days the translation was completed in cooperation, so that this book in English will be available to all those who are really interested in this nature, i.e. the sources and legal interpretation of top experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55411	I thank everyone who participated in the debate. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met, and that will be within today's vote. The report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2016, submitted by the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, the debate was concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2016 is hereby accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 113 for and 3 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55415	... esteemed MPs and MPs, the report of the centre is available, I would not take up valuable time now but I will wait and hear your comments and suggestions and suggestions and then take, 5 minutes to answer what will be and perhaps warn of an important topic that is also current with Agrokor in Croatia, so here, to shorten this time, I would leave you to say what you think, and then I will be very happy to answer if it is necessary to ask your question. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55416	We have a replica of you, Your Honor, Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55417	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Doctor Nazor, I would like to commend your report which, as every time, is very exhausting. But I'd like to ask you a question. Can you tell us if there's anything new with a completely inappropriate scandalous, embarrassing European reader who was performed in Thessaloniki in 2016... in which claims such as that the war in Croatia was actually created or encouraged by the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, that Vukovar was the Hiroshima of Serbian and Croatian madness without any further comment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the second question, is it true, that the person who collaborated on that reader was involved in the curricular reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55418	The answer, to the replica, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55419	Thank you very much for asking. Unfortunately, that's true. I reported on the last report in the work of the center. I warned that it was done and I listed only the most important points or findings in that reader. What you've brought out now is that we're part of what's in it. I personally gave a scientific review to that reader who was in the journal for Croatian history. It's a bigger problem. In fact, this is what I wanted to highlight in this particular topic, that some people take responsibility to interpret Croatian history, although they do not actively deal with this history. In the making of the first curricula, our center has been bypassed in the work as well as the Institute of History. And the people who worked on it do not deal with modern history, especially the Homeland War. The mention of the reader, which you mentioned, is what I said last time here in the Parliament, associates who appear on this reader from Croatia, Croatian historians, none of them are concerned with modern history. The result of such an approach, I am sure, and I am responsiblely saying here, the deliberate bypassing of the Croatian Institute of History and our centre is that these things that you said are listed in the chapters relating to the war in Croatia and BiH. So in this reader, it's not just a problem, it's not just a matter of factographic errors and such findings, because it's scandalous that there's some multi-perspectivity in the section on Vukovar that quotes a statement of no one's debt but Vuk Draskovic, that Vukovar is Hiroshima I'd leave it, I thought those five minutes, in the end, I'd leave it, because I think that's one big problem. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55420	It takes more time. Thank you very much. Now do any of the committee's rapporteurs actually want only the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee and on Education, science had a theme? No, I don't. Okay. Thank you very much. Does the government's representative want to give an additional opinion? No, I don't. And now we're going to have a discussion. The first is Mr. Miro Bulj, who will speak for the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55421	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the respected head of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre from the Homeland War. In this report you listed everything from the beginning of the memory center to this report that is quite extensive and which means in several parts. I'm interested in, in order not to repeat, whether you have enough archive material, i.e. Did you collect all the material you think is necessary? And whether it's material is essentially in one place. And whether a large part of the material that was secretly, without the permission to take off the official secret ended up in a number of international institutions, as an example, went to the HAG, we know how many documents went. Did the copies or originals go away and do you have them at all? Because we know that our policies would be added to European officials, that they were sending trucks of documents without official detachment at the time for cooperation with the International Court of Justice was Mr Orsat Milenić, so he could confirm that, but later on, at the time the Croatian defenders were located, they involved... They were processing and the documents were leaving at the time, and did you ask for all these documents, since the processes of God are now complete. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our generals are freed, I think it would be good to check if there are documents that you or the archives don't have that are missing. As far as very important is concerned, it's a curricula, we all mention education, and it's very important how this whole procedure goes through what our children are going to learn. We're just asking it to be true about the Homeland War, the only truth that goes through this whole procedure, who controls it, who's authorized for material from the Homeland War, what your influence is, and the people who deal with this within that reform that's been announced and who will soon be adopted according to all the statements. Therefore, I expect that the Homeland War is mainly due to the future to tell the truth about the Croatian victorious soldier. It is the least they deserve, and the most important thing is that future generations know the truth rather than hear stories like heard from a fellow member of Parliament, Pupovec, who compares Mr. Bobetka's war hero general with criminals such as Mladic, Babic and others. That was not so long ago, that these untrues don't pollute the space mostly younger. The truth about the Homeland War is very important in schools as well as in documents through textbooks and videos and witnesses who, in those times which should be lecturers of certain hours within the entire educational programme and the obligation to visit sites such as the city of Vukovar and other areas, should not be forgotten, that these people are not forgotten because yet Croatia was created in blood, in the defensive Homeland War all together. It was not seen who was the son of the Ustasha, who was the son of the Partisans. Therefore, the Croatian state was created together and we must do this job together and put the truth about the Croatian soldier, the victorious soldier, the human soldier who prevented a large genocide only in the Bihaćko enclava, so that we do not speak of a greater slaughter than Ratko Mladic was in Srebrenica. So many of these facts should be in textbooks. Many people have given their lives and, of course, the most work and work on the truth, because as time passes, the truth can be reversed. Your attitude and stories, so you follow all Croatian troops,... Army troops, SAO provinces, JNA at that time in this area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth turns out, and it's not good that all summer, for three months, there's been talk of eleven volunteers of the Homeland War, defenders who died, who had their own record in Jasenovac. He's in Gradiška now, and he's not answering. Then it wouldn't have done anything to offend them in this way, because all the troops of the MUP, the ZNG, the Croatian army after, the reserves, the Guard troops, the HoS, they all played their part. And I don't think it'd be worth talking about that way, while in Croatia, it's full of monuments to Chetnik leaders like the Shoskocan and the others. I think we should talk about it in public, we don't want to contaminate space like it was. But about the Homeland War for three months, we've been talking about 11 honest people. And to mention, there were people of all nationalities and all worlds, and so we know that there were a large number of Serb national minorities and the Croatian military in HoS. And these people are given great pain and great importance, to people who are members of the Serb national minority in my area where I live, many people have given great pain. I repeat the great pain, the people of the Serb minority and the triba thank them. I am sorry that no one represents them, nor in this House, those people who have defended Croatia, who have accepted Croatia as their country and I see no reason not to put it in front of all of us as an example of people, and us as societies that hold to these values, to our national minorities, not only Serbian nationality. But since such was the character of the war, we know that Serbia was headed for Croatia on a grand-serb quest. I believe that everything should be recorded and, of course, in classrooms left to our students as a permanent sort of, as a story of a community that can only fight us for the survival of a Croatian man who only strengthens us in the future because divisions have never brought anything. As I said in the Homeland War, we all participated together in any sons of Partisans, Ustashas, people of Serb national minorities, other national minorities. No one saw it, but they fought together in the trench. I would also point out that on the Homeland War, you as an institution need to use people who are self-organizing. We have examples of a number of war cameramen, numerous people who have their own documentation, and even themselves as a war cameraman Peter Malbaša himself did certain documentary films without support and state and institution and left one clue as a film called "True to Victory" in which the entire war route describes many of our units, primarily the troops of the Guard 126 and these southern parts, and in other sectors we have. And that would have put the tribal together in one place, because they left a lasting stock because they didn't have a rifle in their hand, but they had cameras and they left what was most valuable and that is the current recording of that time, these people and those stories bloody when Croatia had to defend itself unfortunately with weapons. And I would once again say that I believe that this can be done, I believe that you have opportunities, I believe that the state can enable you and the others who are investigating that time, that the truth is preserved and that the Homeland War is what it was. Winning, liberating, just because we had the right of Croats to their country, after centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55422	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. First Mr. Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Nazor, Mr. Bull, you mentioned that the court proceedings were closed. I would point out this way that not all procedures have been completed and that just once, a powerful verdict regarding the BIH is expected but can have a very large repercusion and on the Republic of Croatia, so I think that should be emphasized. Another thing he would point out when it comes to legal aspects, in general, the Homeland War. I don't think you talk about them sometimes enough and that's why you'd compliment what you mentioned on the board, if you organized one... who was just about to process and process these aspects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that some interpretations and changes to the '98 Constitution or international recognition of Croatia would not happen, are interpreted as the cause of Serbian rebellion or something like that. So I hope you'll move on in that sense. They mean from a multidisciplinary perspective to address the issue of the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55424	Thank you, too. Replication response, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55425	I was talking about generals who were tried in the case where the intelligence of our operations was given meanings in the HAG. The fact is, he had a much harder verdict now, and I agree with him, which we can expect, in the first degree, we had. Where Croatia is accused of a criminal enterprise. A very dangerous construction, a joint, criminal enterprise of the Croatian state, from politics to the military at the BIH. Which is absolutely untrue and the people the state was forgotten about. That's where you'd agree, those generals were forgotten. The first minister to remind the generals was Minister Sprlje, they were left without legal assistance, defending themselves in the first degree they lost that in essence. The biggest problem is that if the Croatian State does not defend itself, if it is within the appeal period... She took it, and I believe she did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I expect that the Croatian soldier and the Croatian Council of Defense jointly defended Croatian territory. I've spent a year in the BIH myself, if there were a number of people from that time on, and I don't see any reason we had any criminal activity. The Croatian soldier freed and saved the main bull's enclave from the largest genocide in this area. Srebrenica, therefore, was a much smaller crime that occurred in the bullish enclave. It is a setup, but the Croatian state and Croatian society are very little the Croatian state has taken on this issue. And I believe it must not happen that the Croatian soldier should be accused of being a criminal, and the entire Croatian state, the institutions, had a criminal enterprise in the area of BIH. Croatian soldier and HVO have also been wounded jointly under the Izetbegović Tudjman agreement in Split, defending each other against a large Serbian Chetnik resort on BiH and Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55426	Thank you, Mr. Bull, thank you. Mr. Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull, you have said well that it takes a day today, unfortunately so many years after the end of the war, to actually advocate the truth about the Homeland War. Because often that day is blurry, some things are quiet, some try to reinterpret, etc. And the question that you asked your colleague Nazor, in fact, he answered, you may have heard him a little bit, to ask, were they involved, consulted, when making curricula. He made it clear, unfortunately, that neither his institute nor the Croatian Institute of History were involved in the creation of a curricula although, on the scientific side, the objective sides would have anything to say and may be the most invited in that part of Croatian history to give their views and data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55428	Thank you, too. Replication response, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55429	So I think the most important truth about the Homeland War, we're complicated here, we need science to be involved and it should be essentially in textbooks, adapt course towards age, because we have nothing to be ashamed of, because again, the Homeland War was common, it was apologetic, everyone stood together in the trench, I repeat, there was no nationality, no religion, no party membership. Simply, we are all united together, the Croatian people are defending their country. Of course there are many questions, many of the people we have to talk about, here we have just forgotten people who are missing, people who are still missing and our Croatian defenders, so here we have a doctor... Which I'd like my colleague Milorad Pupovac to talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He was in charge of these things and exchanges at the time. He should know the most, so here's what we should talk about. Many people are basically and families don't know about their deaths. And that's the way it's supposed to go. We need to know that when we talk about the truth about the Homeland War, the only way we can leave it is if it's written, of course on the scientific side, scientists or people of those generations of the Homeland War, of course, is that there are fewer and fewer of these people. In a few years, it will be true what is written and left in the documents, in the textbooks, and it must not be allowed to distort the truth, that the Croatian people who were, the Croatian state, who was the victim, to go in reverse, to turn out that we were an aggressor victim and that we have this example when we enter, i.e. when we open Serbia's judiciary chapter, in the EU where Croatia was to stand behind these, block negotiations and that Serbia's power over Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55430	Mr. Bull, you'll have plenty of opportunities yet. And it is not the custom of another representative especially if he is not present if he responds to a third representative. Mr. Matic in front of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Director with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So, the report of the Croatian Memorial Centre of Homeland War 2016 as well as all previous ones, was made very correct, very content as historians know how to do it and the SDP will, of course, accept and support this report. However, today I want to talk about something that I have talked about several times, since I can tell a friend with Mr. Nazor, discuss and discuss something called ending history or different interpretations of historical events. I'm like a layman who's not a historian, for me it's always two and two, four, but we've seen some historians say it's small, some say it's too much again. But today I've prepared a whole other debate, but since here, two nights because of one event I don't sleep, I've decided to share it with you this time. It's not directly related to this event, but given that it's a historical event, it is. In fact, I've been taught to be on the side of weaker, powerless, needy, old, disfellowshipped and when it comes to people who are 95, 100 years old, especially. And now I don't trust myself either, but I have to be credible and principled, and maybe even some of my fellow SDP colleagues will resent that after all this, after 70 years of World War II, they'll defend Ustashas, I really didn't imagine it alone in the worst nightmare. Namely, they did not have to kill, burn, kill, destroy, write racial laws for four years, so they did not for nothing form a concentration camp, Jasenovac and Gradiška Stara, darken the Serbs, Roma, Jews, Croats of the unsuspecting, cast into caves like Jadovno, licked and kissed the laps and hands of Mussolini and Hitler and tried to be greater fascists than them, and now someone has decided with one sentence to overwrite it and a dead cold saying "The Ustashares were not fascists." Imagine, Bishop Kosic, who is known for many of his unwise statements, according to procedures such as blessing of war criminals, crosses the building, but this time really went too far. Nothing was caused, he insulted the Ustashas and their movement. In a single sentence he said they were fascists, and therefore we from this place must clearly tell Urbi et orbi to everyone on notice once and for all. You won't insult Ustasha. They are who they are. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Radin: Please, Mr. Glasnović, you have a replica later. Here you go.]] So, Ustashas as they are, they are ours, and we don't let them insult them, because when they say for themselves and they're proud that they're fascists, then we don't let anyone take it away from them after 75 years and question it. So sleep quietly, Ustasha, and don't worry. We'll never, ever forget your actions and everything you've done in the '40s. - of those years and for which we will remember you forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55432	We have a few replicas. First Mr. Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55433	Comrade Fred, look at your possible war buddy how we, if we had lost this last war of ours, who knows where those great fighters of yours would be with us. Look at the way they made me a nice mustache, reminds me of some Hitler. But, fellow Fred, you didn't mention any of the brushes you allegedly fought. You haven't mentioned them in a single word, and that's a fresher memory to you. But in the time of Milanovic's government, in conjunction with Vesna Terselic, Deputy Prime Minister Vesna Pusic, via her party colleague Zlatar Violic, launched strong political pressure to destabilize Nazora. So it was appointed the new administrative council of the center at the head of the... and Exalted as members of the council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says this, the board of directors of HND CDR, named Cedomir Višnić, who during the war was an intelligence officer of the military, so-called "Kedomir Višnić". SAO landscapes. A document confirming that Cedomir Višniæ was in '92. For years, he collaborated with representatives of the 13th Serbian Army brigade, the so-called "Serb Army". SAO landscapes. Fred, you were in that government. Someone and something. How come you didn't see what they were setting us up as defenders? Who's going to explore our history? Intelligences of the landscape. But they didn't bother you. And I know here why you didn't mind. I know a lot of things that a lot of people don't know. Patak and the team from Vukovar greet you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55434	Replication response, Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55435	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Culey, I'm used to your insults and lies that you've been putting on about me for a long time, but I would ask the chairman that Mr. Culey doesn't address me as "you," once Mr. Shucker used to be someone, so he said to the people "We didn't keep sheep together," so Mr. Culey, we didn't fix the tanks in JNA together, namely I didn't fix them at all or I was there. As for Mr. Nazor and his role and all that the Croatian government has done with him, he knows best and knows my part in all this. So thanks to my voice, my little bits he's been removed from that position. Here you can see he's no longer the Director of the Memorial Documentary Center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55436	This has been a heated debate, but within the limits of decency, no matter what, and you or you will agree. Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55437	Dear colleagues, I think it makes no sense to tell some people something because I used to say that the worst obstacle to the state of Croatia is this mental heritage that prevents catharsis, lighting events in these areas. It's okay. It's okay. Mr. Fred, you're not a historian. I studied history, modern history and studied political sciences in Canada that are not the same society. Everything is available there. I've read more books in the day of time than anyone... All my life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have no idea what you're talking about, and now I'm gonna prove it. All the states that hold on to themselves have a Commission on War Graves. Americans come here, it's pure science, it's not politics, it's not partisans and Ustashas. They came here looking for two pilots from World War II. In Croatia you have from the Slovenian border, the Austrian borders to Bulgaria do not know in Croatia 700 mass graves in Slovenia, 1000 in Croatia. They're victims of the communists, the communist regime, the Bolshevik Satanism that you're defending today, so I don't know why. Have you signed up before in the former state of Yugoslavia? Are you still the Yugoslavs? You've remained mentally Yugoslav. And if you've been fighting there's a description of fanatics that's this. A man who fights for certain goals, when he reaches them forgets why he fought. When you laid the crown in Vukovar where it was killed, and... That is what Bishop Košič and the second in the centre of Vukovar said in April forty-five years killed 200 thousand of the most prominent citizens of Vukovar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why we did, because that regime killed the Croatian people, it's not the Ustasha issue, the Partisans. Executed... Democide and class genocide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you mentioned the great Serbian imperialism from 1912 to '41. He killed 200,000 people in these areas, and where did he start? You know the name of a priest and 100 Croatian peasants who were killed in '35. years in the Old Yugoslavia. You have no idea. Stick to your guard's props, and don't you people... And you're a pure agi popper and a shame that you were a Croatian defender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, Mr. Glasnović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55438	Here you are, Mr. Matic, Mr. Matic's reply. Please time! [[Invader Glasnović: You are a disgrace to the Croatian defender.]] We respect time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55439	Thank you very much. Every time Mr. Glasnović heard, you should have been here in Croatia and gone through what the Croatian people had been through until the 1990s and later. It was easy to be smart from 10,000 miles. ... Please! [[/Intruder Glasnović, you don't understand.]] From 10,000 kilometers away as well as your former Prime Minister Oreshkovic whom you have never asked why he was not in the Homeland War. I don't question your merits of war, and you know it. However, we should know something, you who have read a lot of books, so this House of Nineties has been talking about marking the site of the victims of World War II and porn. There was a famous committee of Hebrang's that we abolished, but you said you were going to renew it. Here's two years have passed, of course you haven't. The only two monuments in the Republic of Croatia to the victims of World War II and Porec were opened in Tupala Sinjc near Otočac and in Gracani here in Zagreb. You won't believe it, you'll be informed. So those two places are the only, zero and no third, opened by the government of Zoran Milanovic, opened by the defence minister, my little one. And over the only two monuments in the Republic of Croatia in large letters written by victims of the communist regime, you won't believe it or you want SDP's authority and this former minister here who is before you. And you still honk about everything you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55440	You've caused a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you, you have to say the article. Here you go. Turn on the microphone first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55441	238th Precinct. First of all, sir, I have to fix this to him. The Croatian people built a monument to Macel where you have 130 mass graves, where they were killed by civilians, prisoners of war. You have 130 pits. Where up to 14,000 people were killed, which was paid by the Croatian people, and no non-state commission paid. And so, you have other monuments in the municipalities. People themselves organize to mark the deaths of their people by this criminal communism, of that Bolshevik Satanism that killed more people than four centuries of this Turkish Zulu. You did it, your heirs did it, predecessors in 4 ten short years. And that's why you've got 3 million people out there, and my family's all taken away in that country. I was born in a 25-square apartment and I left when I was eight because I had to run. So wait, I am, when you talk about me. I had to run. Ten years in Zenica, mother six months there in UDBA. I've been brought in. Yours are... family guessed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55442	Thank you very much. Time. Mr. Glasnović, I was so tolerated that I didn't tell you that article 238, but article 236, 238, excuse me for saying not to talk about falsifying data. I was tolerated, so respect that. ... I've been tolerant. [[/Intruder Glasnović, you don't understand.]] Mr. Zekanovic's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55443	Every time the SDP is on its knees, then we hear from that side of the conference, normally what we're going to talk about Ustashas and Partisans. It's always the same story. You have a great party president, congratulations on that. That's probably why you're constantly pulling this subject out. But I still can't believe that in 2017 we hear that "you won't pop". It's the same expression, the same exclamation that's been repeated for 45 years. "You won't pop" I don't know, Mr. Matić. Did I hear that right? Hundreds of these priests, these priests, as you called them, and nuns were killed in labor and labor. You talk about Ustasha crimes, you talk about Ustashas, and you don't mention Partisan crimes. Not everyone who was in the Ustashas and the natives were criminals like many, many, unfortunately partisans slaughtered and killed both in Bleiburg and the Crossway and always those topics are re-extended, whenever you are on your knees. If you already condemn fascist crimes, Ustashas, which we all condemn, condemn and communist, and you have never heard a word of the condemnation of communist crimes. And you are an advanced democratic, European party, and you always call on the council, to the resolutions of the Council of Europe, the EU, so you forget this resolution on the condemnation of all totalitarian regimes. So you're ignoring it all the time. It's like the Council of Europe never said anything. But the more you pull that subject out, the more you're in opposition, the poor that you're gone, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55444	Mr. Matic, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55445	So, thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, you were wondering if you heard well, so I don't know if you're really sitting on your ears, so you've heard quite well what I've said to Mr. Glasnović and what I've answered, so you've heard it too. I was talking about a concrete priest, so it's a folk term for a priest, a priest, a walk, it's called a pop, a concrete pop, and here on this side of the assembly we didn't let be offended by the Ustashas. What are you angry about now? Are we going to insult them or are we not going to insult them? As far as you're concerned, you shouldn't be offended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55446	Mr. Zekanovic, you've made a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55447	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55448	Wait, I'm curious, please just read the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55449	238, demeaning fellow MPs. Look. Like this, my colleague told me to honk, just before I was sitting on my ears, just before my colleague Glasnovic blew the horn, his colleague, I have to say, and that's one vocabulary that SDP used most of the time, so his colleague just said from a pay phone that the prime minister was groping. I'm just going to congratulate you on your brilliant presentation and on your president's excellent presentations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55450	Let's move on. In front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55451	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Director with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the report of the Croatian Memorial-Documentation Centre for 2016, which as you can see, exhaustively, extensively and gives full information about the activities of the center but also the problems the centre faces. The centre is a central archival and scientific institution for the collection and protection of archive materials from the Homeland War and its research and activities are also extensive. Perhaps the work of the Department of Archival Materials of the Homeland War, which, with regular activities, should be particularly highlighted by the Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War over the years, explored and edited requests received from various state institutions, county state attorneys of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice, the Department of War Crimes, the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, lawyers, suspected members of the HVO. The centre collected archival material by taking over by official donation and purchase of archival material. During 2016 there were 24 or 7 more scientific and professional journals, monographs, collections and other professional and professional-publicist newspapers. A total of 31 scientific or professional work by the employees of the centre with topics from the Homeland War. This number does not include the work of the staff of the centre 2016 who have been published on portals as well as individual daily and periodic presses. During 2016, the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War and its employees participated as organizers or co-organizers and as active participants lecturers and promoters at many scientific and professional gatherings, public stands and lectures and promotions and exhibitions where scientists, commanders and other participants of the Homeland War events and authors of promotional publications spoke. The issue of keeping the material taken and collected should also be highlighted. To this end, storage facilities are provided and needed. For conventional material is stored in warehouses in the center, 150 metres of square storage in Kerestinac, 205.16 meters of square meters which, due to the height of space, can receive more than 1000 long meters of cities and unconventional material is stored under appropriate conditions in special storage facilities in the Croatian State Archives in Kerestinec and in Croatia cinema. Due to the reconstruction of the storage facility in Kerestinec, the capacity of the total storage area that the centre has available is currently reduced until the completion of the mentioned reconstruction. The rich publishing and scientific research activities and co-operation with state institutions indicate that the centre has high professional staff and, as indicated in the report, is self-financed by their education or the cost of obtaining a doctorate as well as the costs of various professional trainings for their employees. So far, the centre has managed to pay by its own means for all the improvements. By July 2013, at the center of work employed indefinitely, employees are graduated historians, 7 is a doctor of science, and 4 is currently in doctoral study. In addition to employees working on administrative jobs and archive technicians' jobs, all employees of the centre that is a condition for work have passed a professional archival exam. The report, as we can see, also states that the scope of the job requires an even greater number of employees than the one the centre now has, as reported by the competent Ministry of Culture. It is certainly necessary to consider the opportunities available to the ministry and try to solve this employment problem in order to make the centre work even better and better. In this report, as we can see, all the publications are listed, and the collection of documents and materials from various projections, and so on, this memorial documentation centre is the one that all those false testimony comes from our neighbouring republics or so on. The republic has been denied. In view of the prevention of materials collected in liberating operations, but which are bought out by individuals, it is clear that the events of the Homeland War, which are said to have been fair, acquittal Homeland War, and I would have liked that colleagues who relaxed in the debates about Ustashas and Partisans spoke more about the archeic material that was deposited and from which it was seen who was the aggressor and who was who. It is impossible to fake history because of this centre, because it has everything in it, from the orders of all Corpses, armies that attacked the Croatian state, to certain headquarters of territorial defenses, to all those videos, images, publications and broochs issued by the Krajina army as well as the Serb army. So this is a commendable material that actually clearly presents and speaks about what happened in the Republic of Croatia, so that no one can say from these documents that the citizens of war happened, but the aggression of the Republic of Croatia. This... The centre is the value Croatia has, from which it draws all its arguments and justifications and from which future generations should learn history, what happened in Croatia, and not to draw attention, to some topics that are absolutely not suitable today in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that by continuing to cooperate with all institutions we will prove what is true, but also write true history from these materials that have been collected, most in the liberating operations, which the institutions have examined, have knowledge, but many times they do not use them, because they are probably ideologically removed from the reality that occurred in the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club supports this report as well as further works and improves the Memorial Documentation Centre with a desire to continue, historical books in the Republic of Croatia are filled from the very clear evidence that is archived in... Thank you for everything you have done for the Republic of Croatia through these collected materials and we wish you further successful work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55452	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55453	Jadranko Prlic, Bruno Stojic, Slobodan Praljak, Milivov Petković, Valentin Čorić, Berislav Pušić. They are Croats from the BIH who are sitting at this moment, chama in the HAG and who, with impatience or expectations of the country, are waiting for the 29th of next month, when they will finally be given the verdict. Otherwise, they are accused as six of participating in an international joint criminal enterprise, along with our first president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. The Memorial documentation centre is necessary precisely because of these things, to prove the innocence of Croatian people in Croatia but I will dare say so in the area of BIH. We forgot a little bit when they were 1,000 young people in '91. They came to Croatia and helped defend their homeland, which is also their homeland, and then they were good to us. Today, they're a little bit forgotten, a little in the seal. Well, unfortunately, the crown proof of this process is one I will dare say the forged war log of Ratko Mladic, where, in fact, who will judge, that is, decide on the verdict of our Croatian indictees, who today, will repeat the chama in the HAG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55454	Replication response, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55455	Thank you very much, Vice President. The colleague is clear that these materials at the Memorial Documentation Centre in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the BIH, clearly show the truth which is drawing data from both of them and from each other of the Memorial Documentation Centre, have been clearly delivered to both the judicial authorities and the HAG all that is true. Remove what is being placed on us by both the Republic of Croatia and individuals, as officers of the Croatian Army as well as the Croatian Defence Council. And we believe, as the president of the council and his deposited special decision concluded, put and removed the general doubt, up to two judges remained in what someone did from the BiH, Republika Srpska and Serbia. They can also point out that it is difficult for us to accept that those to whom we helped at the beginning of the Homeland War, who we armed, who we trained, who we provided all the help and during the liberation operations to talk today about the aggression of the Republic of Croatia, at the BIH. That's what's scary, that's what's called a neighbor's thank you for everything we've done for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55456	Now we have Mr. Bull outside the Independent Lists Bridge, not a pardon, an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55457	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today we're talking about a very important topic, it's a center that takes care of the archive, i.e. which the archival structure needs to be examined on the scientific side and preserved by the truth, I was talking about in the beginning myself, but also in the name of the club, but the most important part, in my opinion, is the truth about the Homeland War, because the fact that the politics of the Republic of Croatia, too, wants to twist the truth, so we see also the rise of the monument to the Major who wanted the whole of Bjelovar to be blown up. Who is glorified by the hero, where the Croatian defenders were then killed, civilians in Bjelovar where Vukic often emphasizes the fact that he is twisting the truth. Of course he's a man, we need to be aware who supported the Chetnik movement that was giving speeches in Clay in '95. A year. So the Serbs themselves of the Republic of Serbia from the top of the government have an attempt to twist the truth that is important to preserve the truth about the Homeland War and to leave a mark on the scientific side. But it is very important and remember the times when Parliament's representatives also said that aggression was committed, the Croatian soldier committed aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is absolutely untrue. We really expect these people because in the Homeland War people went, I repeat again, I'm sorry that the story of Ustashas and Partisans started a little while ago, because simply in the Homeland War, all people went to war no matter who they were doing to them, to the Partisans, regardless of their nationality. We have to protect the Homeland War together, and this is the only way we can do it through the Homeland War Memorial Documentation Center to collect data, so we can all go together. And an apology from these parliamentary deputies who then provoked a terrible thesis that The Hague has now taken over at the trial of our defenders in The Hague who have been forgotten for years by the institutions of the Croatian State. A very difficult first-degree verdict is now expected to be second-degree where Croatia is accused of, meaning a joint criminal enterprise and aggression on another country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is absolutely false. I repeat again the Croatian soldier has been liberatingly together with the Croatian Defence Council, because it is the same body and the BiH Army after the Izetbegovic-Tudjman Agreement stopped, the Croatian soldier stopped Ratko Mladic, Vukic, the current president of the Republic of Serbia and others from committing an unremembered crime in the Bihaćko Enclava, and thus we prevented a crime, a Croatian soldier unremembered in this history, much greater than it did in Srebrenica. And that's true. We talk about this truth because many Croatian soldiers gave their lives, their health in the area. The joint body was also always the Croatian Defence Council and the Croatian Army and we must not share it. These are Croatian soldiers who have jointly defended Croatia. The colleague also mentioned earlier that people in these areas were the first, among the first to come to Croatia armed forces and should not be forgotten. I'd like to ask Mr. Nazora if you have information on who's doing a review of the curricular reform, because we don't have an answer yet. We see that individuals, associations, have asked who is doing a review of the curricular reform on the Homeland War issue. Are foreign institutions doing this or are you involved? Do they do it in England or do I not know which other state? This is serious. What remains in the textbooks, and the textbooks must be what is in the archives, the archival structure, and I hope that all documents will be collected as I have spoken and that we will promote this community and the Homeland War in the future. I would like to be in the future now, because the Croatian man can survive in this area. And it's very important to mention again and send a message. Croatian citizens are not haters of other peoples. Again, I stress that we are trimming prominent people of Serbian nationality and of all national minorities. We point them out. Many were in all Croatian troops. In Hos, they gave their life. We have examples. I have an example from my field, where the people of the Serb national minority were in all units and the Hos. Therefore, we are going to give each unit our place and I have not asked the Prime Minister here and why so many halabukas are rising around the 11 members of the Croatian defence forces who have given their lives so that we can have today's system parliamentary. And about the aggressor which unfortunately we have monuments in the whole area which are essentially from Borov settlement, Vukovar to the Knin area, which is sad, where Croatian defenders are offended, where institutions are insulted. But unfortunately, it's obviously political, coalition relations at this point in the HDZ, the SDSS simply can't solve the problem. And I'm really calling on all the parliamentary deputies to let us agree to come back when we talk about this. We can open up the subject of all totalitarian regimes, bow down to all victims. But to open up the topic of World War II when we talk about the Homeland War, it's extremely irresponsible, irresponsible, and mostly of us Parliamentarians no matter who it is. We have, so totalitarian regimes day, so that's what the Council of Europe has given communist, fascist, Nazi, and all victims are trying to bow down from that time. Because simply all totalitarian regimes did not bring good to the Croatian people, and Homeland War is the foundation of the Croatian state and we try to speak of it with truth and pride. So now one question asked you. First it was about the archives in other international courts and in the field did you collect. I see there's an archive everywhere. Many people have archives and private ones. Have you done anything about it all for better scientific research and for the sake of truth. And the second question of course is very important that school textbooks talk about the truth, about the Homeland War and who did the curricular reform that was involved, whether you are involved and who was doing the review are mostly talking about the Homeland War, whether it's done by foreign institutions or whether it's going to work by Croatian institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55458	We have six replicas. First Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55459	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj, through these documents that are numbered, we clearly see that he owns the Memorial-documentation centre all that is necessary for the State's Attorney's Office to act, react. In order to prove to those who have been subjected to an abject or abject, that they were executioners or organisers of blood crimes, as was the case... The founder of the Western Slavonia area, '91-'95, is written by the National Assembly of the Serbian region of western Slavonia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The district council of the Serbian region of Western Slavonia, the Parliament of the Municipality of Pakrac, the Assembly of the Municipality of Okucani, the Supreme Defence Council of the Republika Srpska region. So we have special units of the West Slavonia militia and so on. From those documents, so we've got Community Court of Commons, '91-'95. From all these documents, it is clear who organized the Western Slavonia, who organized the camp in Buć, who brought in the doctor... Whoever executed 26 defenders and civilians on Butch, that's all the questions that have the answer from these documents that they haven't, I believe they haven't, been used so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite our calls from the State's Attorney's Office on several occasions in this Croatian House, to this day... Free walks and is not responsible for what he did with premeditation he committed crimes in the organization of Western Slavonia and camp in Buć. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not to list all other destinations where the same thing happened. All documents shall be held by those who were in the units of their criminal forces to the commander and to the perpetrator of the individual crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55460	Thank you, fellow Djakic. Time's up, thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55461	Of course crime doesn't get old. That is the rule they were called upon when Croatian defenders were arrested, when they were persecuted. Well, I don't see any reason, so not only can the State's Attorney's Office work on the matter of Croatian defenders, without justifying any crime. Of course, it is difficult and tiring to listen to women raped in Vukovar who are hard and hard to give their confessions about those moments of hardship that say that their rapists are now living in the city of Vukovar. Of course, this file if it testifies and documentes the truth, so of course the State's Attorney's Office, because the crime doesn't go out of date, that it should react. But they were more concerned about how to arrest us as many of our generals, again I repeat more words because it is simple, it is the hardest time that has lived, how to court European officials and arrest the most prominent Croatian sons and persecute them around the world while these Chetniks, the organizers of the rebellion walk freely with Croatia. Apparently the institutions were turned, mainly the State Attorney's Office at all levels was turned more towards how to comply with the Croatian policy which was advocacy and obedience to The Hague. It is even more painful that we have chapter 23, Serbia has opened chapter 23 of the pre-accession negotiations, Croatia has not blocked, and they have received the conditions of the small Hague, jurisdiction throughout the territory. Croatian defenders will be in Belgrade and Serbia's jurisdiction. Here it's twisted, for the first time in history, the criminals will judge, the aggressors essentially, the victims and the defenders. And we need to stop it, our policy under emergency.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55462	Thank you. Mr. Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55463	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Nazor with the Deputy, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj. I'll ask you one question as a Croatian defender. What do you think about trying to classify the Homeland War as a civil war on this territory and what do you think of those in Croatian politics that mention equalising the blame for the conflict in the Balkans? Do you think it's blocking the intention of repatriation or war damage to Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55464	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55465	The Homeland War was not a civil war, Croatia attacked JNA and Serbia then within those frameworks, that is the fact. But there is, of course, this catch of war damage, 45 billion euros, and I call indeed on Croatian diplomacy, the Croatian government, all who are responsible, because we are calling for good relations and no one is against bad relations, that they clearly and loudly tell Vucic, the President of Serbia, that Croatia is paying 45 billion euros in the damage he has done, which the army then did, and there can be no civil war. The civil war to speak of when the entire army, then the JNA stands aside from Serbia against the Croatian Parliament's decision on independence is a story for small children because everything was legitimate, founded but the fact that many in Croatian politics must apologize. Well, here are the stories in this House that there's been an aggression against BiH, that it's a civil war. What civil war are we talking about? So 1/3 of Croatia wanted to separate it and turn it into so-called The landscape. With the intention and purpose of the absolute blockade of Croatia, in fact what Vucic said in Glina will remain little around Zagreb, the current president of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we must not buy these stories, it was a punitive, just war, a war which basically defended the Croatian state with honorable victory operations of the Croatian army unmarked in these areas and any other objection is absolutely against Croatian interest and lies and deception.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55466	Thank you. Mr. Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55467	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bully was talking about our six, meaning the six from the BIC who was charged with the HAG. I would just like to point out the following when we talk about it, to be very careful and precise when we talk about it, what is the alleged role of the Republic of Croatia. Last year, Justice Minister Ante Sprlje asked your party for the Hague court's appeal council to make Croatia a friend of the court. That's denied. But on account of the Hague court, i.e. The appeal council has been made clear that the first-degree decision applies only to the six. That there is no responsibility for the state in this case of the Croatian state, nor that the former president, first president, Tudjman, the defence minister of Susak and Chief of Staff Bobetko spoke. This is very clear in the reasoning of the Board of Appeal after Croatia asked to be a friend of the court. So there is no responsibility of the Croatian state and we must insist on that. Of course, we want our Croats released, knowing that they will repeat themselves for the third time in this Croatian Parliament, where the Croats were first engaged in the defence of the BIH, are the first victims of the JNA and Serbia aggression against the BIH, the first rebels in the BIH and they have defended the active and military and political because they were in a referendum for independent BIH, only BIH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55468	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55469	Comrade Kovac, you are a diplomat, and you know that diplomacy is largely to blame for this situation in all aspects of the Homeland War, both in the field of BIH and Croatia, that we simply, we didn't do what we were supposed to do, we were simply acting in a courtship and talking about the war in BIH, I don't know your interpretation. I repeat, you are a diplomat, as far as I am not an expert on this, but as far as I read it, these are very difficult qualifications for the Republic of Croatia, where the very top of the Republic of Croatia is being accused, of a joint criminal enterprise and aggression against the BiH. I wish this wasn't true. But those six people weren't fighting a private war either. They waged war for Croatia and managed troops, I am not entering here into individual responsibilities... but not a private war any general, not one of the soldiers led to the general led to Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't justify crimes. We've always been in that position to retreat to get in touch with diplomacy, so we're Serbs. Well, you know, you remember, you were in diplomacy. What we needed in order to open chapter 23. Arrest, locate everything you can and then tell our people we still need. The paperwork's gone. I don't know how many. Well, politics is official, came out Mr. Vladimir Seks, this now party leader, one of the advisers, so to speak, the word that is most morbid in Croatia's history. Locate transfer, arrest, transfer, process, whom Gotovina, Markac. We didn't defend our interests just to court or even to defend our territory. We weren't allowed to declare the economic belt. It was so long-term, let alone in relationships, that the Croatian soldier did not wage a private war. The Homeland War is also honorable in the area of BiH and Croatia as well. And these people therefore... pain in Croatia as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55470	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Varda has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On the one hand, colleague Bulj, we have this report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre,... In fact, documents and memoirs, which I hope for with special seriousness, you judge credibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, I have your testimony as a defender in the BIH and your statement today in the debate, that in this House, as the fact has heard, a single representative or representative of Croatia as an aggressor to the BIH. What is worth to us now is this documentation, all of these facts, when I am interested in your opinion if these same representatives, who are sitting in the assembly today, are not present when we discuss this report, and I have not heard an apology for actually eating at the expense of Croatia. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55472	Thank you, Mr. Varda. Mr. Bull has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55473	We live in a democratic society, but it is a lie and a lie that Croatia has committed an aggression on BIH and God forbid that this fact is written somewhere because it is a lie, it is a pain to heaven, it is a pain to heaven from those who are underground, from those who are not among us, from those who have allowed us to have parliamentary documentation today. And of course, you have to admit the mistakes and you have to apologize. Because the Croatian soldier has contributed much to the BIH in defence of large-scale Serbian aggression, and we do not need to talk about Croatia. So, we are a democratic society, we are an open society, but to insult the foundations of the Croatian state, where we have created both the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croats in the diaspora and the Croats within Croatia and now return them again and share something worse with Ustasha and Partisans. And those who said at the time that aggression was indeed minimal to those who allowed them to be in Parliament should be excused, and these were killed by Croatian defenders both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55474	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55475	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, I answered the line because in my opinion you mentioned one key word and it is related to the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre. Since he has seven doctors of science and four PhDs, four are in the process. Therefore, there are highly professional people, quality people who can contribute to the Croatian education system to communicate the truth about the Homeland War in particular about this parent science of history. I see the Memorial Center also participated in various seminars of the Section for Teachers and Teachers on the Homeland War. Last year there was one such gathering, I don't know if it's been held or not this year. Because it's the only way to convey the truth. Here, too, counterpart Varda spoke there are no those who speak the opposite when we talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, it doesn't matter. What matters is what we pass on to young generations, to young generations. What is done in Croatian schools. I think the Koprivnica-Crysing County has made this one move, because the law allows through founders, through the Ministry of Science Education Agency to participate in schools and other persons in the educational process. Here's the school where I worked we invited the defenders to testify to young people from direct experience about their participation in the Homeland War. So, what is crucial and what has been seen in this expert meeting is that very little is actually known about the injuries of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in general about the Homeland War in BiH. Otherwise, my colleague Raguž, after this in his debate, speaks more about it, but the only one who can contribute to the truth or who can contribute most to the truth to the Homeland War and the dignity of the defenders is the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre, because we have nothing to be ashamed of. And the most important is the objective reporting of all those events that took place in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55476	Thank you. Mr. Bull, answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55477	So I would agree with you that the Memorial-documentation centre in the Homeland War, Mr. Nazor and his associates, the state's triba provides them with resources if both greater and human potential and material means are to be true, because this is a very important topic regarding the foundation of the Croatian state and that the truth is ultimately in Croatian textbooks. That the documentation set is complete and the material that is transmitted to textbooks about the Homeland War for the sake of truth. That's why I mentioned this part of the Homeland War that's the most important part in the curricula reform. We can go back to the Ustashas and the Partisans and talk about this, like. I wouldn't want to look back on this subject at all, but this part of the Homeland War triba means doing it perfectly correct to be absolutely true. And I'm really interested in being a parliamentary representative who was involved in making this and who's doing our review? And what will our children learn? He wants to learn the foundations of new documents, or he's going to learn about someone who's currently suffering from a political situation that comes to mind about the Homeland War, where he's going to be mentioned as a citizen, where, I think, I can do whatever he wants. And in fact, it's the most important thing that remains in the textbooks, the books of history, the documentation and what we write will be the truth. Because everything will work, everything will work to twist the truth. We also see the official policy of the Republic of Serbia when a man who supported the Chetnik movement, Vojislav Seselj, gave a speech in Glina, that Croatia would only be around Zagreb. Yes, a Chetnik. He spoke publicly, erecting a monument to a man who had lifted up, Bjelovar intended only to blow up one piece. Most of them failed the Law on Croatian Defence. So you want to, Vulin is publicly telling the truth. So we just have to tell the truth, just tell the truth. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55478	Thank you, sir. And finally, Mr. Glasnović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55479	Dear Mr. Bully, I fully agree with your presentations. I'd just pull two key things. First Homeland War. What we translated from that huge English-language reading to military schools, other institutions out there. I don't think there's a single book on Homeland War in English that brought that personal story closer to the readers outside... I don't know, maybe that's what Mr. Nazor's gonna talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We still don't have the Homeland War Museum. Our mistake was to sign our cooperation with The Hague at all, that's unimaginable. No sovereign state would do that. And we're being lectured on war law, on the international war law of the country that committed genocide in the colonies. And it's unfortunately our sad destiny. In BiH, what is the co-operation with us and the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina? It has been proven that in BiH 97% of the crimes were committed by Chetniks and Chetnik formations who took off the five-pointer and put on a cocardo. You have more than 100,000 names written down. So much for this war, the Homeland, the defense war. I'd appeal to Mr. Bull if we had more fun with World War II because he didn't pass, he's going out. Today, Serbs are running a historic offensive against the Republic of Croatia. Serbia has a War Crimes Commission after June of '44. A year, after June of '44. where thousands were written, thousands of communist victims after the incursion of the 3rd Ukrainian front. In the end in... and the media are blocked nonstop, scientific works are blocked, such as historian Blanca Matkovic, who wrote a book on the terror of OZNA in Dalmatia and on the terror of Partizan criminals in Imotska krajina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, what about returning the archives from Belgrade? There's a state archive downstairs. It's got to come back. What are the Yugoslav mentally afraid of? I'm holding in my hand a list from A to G. You have thousands of UDBA associates. It's just one list. The files are down there, they have code names, and they're afraid of it. They're afraid of code names, how much money they've drawn, and that they've collaborated with the secret services of Yugoslavia against their people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55480	Time Mr. Glasnović, time You'll show me that. I'm just curious. [[Invadica Glasnović: Here's only one list.]] Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55481	I would like to invite my dear colleague Glasnović, here and you to the public, to our fellow parliamentary representatives, to the words of the legendary Bruno Busic. The Croatian state will become when together the sons of Partisans and the sons of Ustasha are united, believing that the Homeland War is the foundation of the Croatian state that we have joined together in the trenches and defended the Croatian state, regardless of those who were against, were against, irrelevant, not even national, so many of them were in Croatian troops We are talking about the Homeland War, the topic of totalitarian regimes, we can open it and talk about it, but the Homeland War is muddying the divisions from before, I don't know who's in the interest. We can talk about an archive that's opened here, just the MOST suggested archives until the '90s, we can fight in another way but here we're talking about the Homeland War. We here have to tell the truth about the Homeland War as you said in foreign languages to promote the truth about the Homeland War, in all the media the truth about the Homeland War, but we first need to know who's writing our history. And who puts history in our textbooks. We need to make history based on the truth and documentation found in the Memorial-documentation centre based on science, scientists. That's what we need to talk about and the divisions, the Ustashas, the Partisans, we can have a thematic session about the victims, about people who need to give away their pies, and about criminals who have committed crimes, but that's the general, a whole other topic. We must fight here to protect the Homeland War and the truth about the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55482	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Raguž, here you are, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55483	Mr. Vice President, Director of Nazor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues The report of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee stressed that the 2016 Memorial Documentary Centre for the Homeland War is a thorough and comprehensive report. [[He didn't say anything. We'll stop time. Go ahead, go ahead, apologize.]] Such an assessment is based on the fact that the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is not only an archival institution, a specialized archive, but also a scientific institution that interprets, based on materials from the Homeland War, through scientific works and studies, the Homeland War in the area of the Republic of Croatia and BiH. It is important to note that the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War in Croatia was founded in 2005, so 13 years after other peoples in the area of the former Yugoslavia founded similar institutions. There have been three similar institutions in Belgrade working since 1992 and in BiH in Banja Luka, the Republic Centre for War, War Crimes and Missing Persons of Republika Srpska and Sarajevo, the Bosniak Institute for the Research of Crimes against Humanity and International Law. What I want to emphasise and what is said in the report of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is the fact that there are 18 employees here in the centre of Zagreb, there is a Croatian National War in BiH founded in 2013 with 4 employees, in Banja Luka and in Sarajevo working over 40 employees individually in both of these mentioned institutions. It says so, and so is the assessment of the Ministry of Culture that it is important for this delay and because of the fact that the Homeland War, its causes, characteristics and consequences are something that is completely justified by the reason of the dispute between the peoples in the area of the former Yugoslavia, it will remain so that it is necessary to come more seriously to the investigation of the Homeland War in BiH, which means, therefore, the staff of science and all others who can realise such an ambition. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War in Croatia is not only a successful state institution, it has also shown by its work that it is also a valuable national institution from the position of Croats in BiH with the Ministry of Croatian Defence, the Central State Office for Croatians outside Croatia and other institutions in the Republic of Croatia. It is too important for us that there is this dimension that it is a national institution that also has a relationship with the Homeland War in the BiH area. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War proved this fact by supporting the defendants of the Croatians in the Hague process, then supporting lawyers and accused Croats in the BiH court by working with the Croatian National War in BiH through joint publication of books, then joint meetings such as the 9th state expert meeting of teachers and history teachers in March in Makarska where the topic was the Homeland War and the role of Croats in the Homeland War in the BiH area. When mentioned here, therefore, a recent verdict to the Hague Six is important to say in the Croatian Assembly because of a series of doubts about what it will have and what consequences it will have, the fact that the Bosniak political thought had a key thesis that is not sufficiently known to the political public, not only the Republic of Croatia, but also in the BiH. That the BIH issue is primarily a Serb Bosniak issue and that, within that framework, the consensus of the Serbian and Bosniak sides should seek a future for the BIH. This is why processes in the Hague court and in the BiH court are used to realise this ambition of Bosniak politics, which unfortunately was supported by the international community through peace agreements in the BiH. Depending on the fact that the international community will make a turn in terms of the justified request of the Croatian people in the BIH, to be equal with Bosniaks and Serbs, I think because of the fact that the Hague court has shown particularly a series of recent rulings and this political dimension. That both the verdict and the Hague six will be liberating if the requirements of the Croats for equality in the BIH are respected, because objectively, in addition to the construction of the doctrine to the joint criminal enterprise, there are no facts that can be brought by individuals who are convicted, therefore, political and military officials of the Croatian people with concrete crimes, a broad interpretation of the joint criminal enterprise is trying to find a structure that would lead to committed crimes in the BIH. I'm going back to what's most important to say. Therefore, the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War needs stronger support from the Croatian government to employ a number of Croatian scientists to deal with the topic of the Homeland War, thus providing assistance in the development of historical science, contemporary historical sciences in the Republic of Croatia, but also to help the Croatian people in the BiH and Croatian minorities and Croatian emigrants. The topic of the Homeland War will remain something that will continue to be the subject of a dispute among the nations, and we should not be surprised. I congratulate, therefore, the director of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War in BIH which is successfully managed all these years by the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre and which contributes to contemporary historical science in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55484	Thank you, too, for putting up with that jam while you were talking. I'd pray if you could go talk outside to those who have something to say to you, so you don't bother the speakers. Mr. Ljubic asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55485	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I want to find out my colleague Raguž that the work done by the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre is also doing the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War of Mostar and that you are leading are doing one job of national historical importance. Unfortunately, your work is not properly followed, therefore, by the Croatian media community, and unfortunately, as we see here today in the Assembly, neither Croatian politics. So is it possible that the parliamentary representative of the opposition in the context of the adoption of the law to Croatian defenders, are we now going to pay all those who killed women and children in Ahmići? Every even under-informed Croatian citizen knows of a crime in Ahmići where therefore, an entirely legitimate action by the HVO has hatched and where individuals used it and committed a terrible crime. But the same day a crime was committed against the Croats in Trussina, who knows about it here. Who knows here in the Croatian public that these are 14 dead Croats and Bosniaks in '92. Mr. in Mostar who was thrown into the garbage dump of Uborak and Sutrina? Who knows here about the crimes in... The village? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croats were the same year the Ahmics were. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the fact is that Croatian politics and the Croatian media scene did not behave in an equally responsible, nationalally responsible manner, tells of the fact that today's Stigma has been established in the domestic but also in the world public on Croatians who have actually committed a crime... Cleanup, and let me remind you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, at the time of Ahmic in central Bosnia, there were 8,000 Croatian defenders versus 80,000 Bosnian army soldiers, and who is the victim and who is the perpetrator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55486	Mr. Ragug's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55487	Unfortunately, as you said, Mr Ljubic, the media during the Homeland War and in years after the war partly influenced by NGOs, and partly under the influence and international structures engaged through diplomacy, in Croatia and the BiH, imitated the patterns of the most significant states in the international community that had their political goals when the war in Croatia and BiH was at stake. And unfortunately, not understanding the public, is the consequence of just such media manipulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55488	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55489	The Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre collects a variety of documentation and I would, and so would my party, HRAST, would like to stress that this documentation is used in such a way that Serbia will finally apologize to Croatia for the aggression against Croatia. And finally, for the compensation of war damage, which we have here, we simply don't experience anymore. We just don't mention what's logical anymore. Slovenians used Croatia's pre-accession objections with the EU in a way that they got what they got in arbitration. Unfortunately, Croatia does not use Serbia as a candidate for the EU today, that it is a little squeezed, that is, to get the opportunity to apologize to Serbia for aggression against Croatia, that is, the ultimate goal of compensation for war damage. I would also mention here that I would like to ask an esteemed colleague whether or not the political legal consequences of a possible verdict to the Croatian six in The Hague and whether we are ready for these conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55490	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55491	So, the legal and political consequences of the Hague-based six in Bosnia and Herzegovina in one part because of the ambitions of the opposing political forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, above all, of Bosniaks who seek to maintain the unequal position of the Croatian people as it is today, independent of constitutional equality, will affect further political life in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina will simply not allow such a relationship. What is also important to the Bosniak policy when the ruling to the Hague six is to reject the so-called interest of the Republic of Croatia towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entire campaign that has been conducted throughout the years in the public of the Republic of Croatia and in this Parliament and Bosnia and Herzegovina has just been aimed at this goal. So, regardless of the verdict of the Hague six, the Croatian people will remain persistent in their efforts to achieve equality with Bosniaks and Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55492	Thank you. We're going to the last line. Dear colleague Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55493	Your Honor! I welcome this invitation from you to bring scientists to the Institute but especially Croatian scientists who are aware of the Homeland War, who will speak in the right way and who will not, like some Chedomir and some Kudrova, be inserted as intelligence officers of the former SAO provinces, to conceal what was true in the Homeland War, and you and Mr. Nazor are present here, and many of us have witnessed last year on a joint board of Croatian war veterans and with the presence of Mr. Nazor, Mr. Lučić, with the presence of all those who wanted to correct the historical injustice which seems to be the late President Tudjman, General Bobetka and Susak. Many who were on the Justice Committee on that day have remained on track to defend the truth about the Homeland War and can't help but talk here about those who left, who left and who didn't want to be with us on the same side in defense of the Homeland War and are on the other side of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55494	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55495	Unfortunately, everything you said is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55496	Thank you. Here is another final address for the respected Ante Nazor, director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55497	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs! Here, I have noted your questions, I see that the marble in the Assembly, that there are obviously other important topics ahead, but don't mind me taking advantage of my time and warning some important topics among other things are relevant here to your questions. Of course, the history is interdisciplinary and that we cannot interpret history without taking into account both international law and thanks to the question in any case there are experts who have given their opinion, in the end we also have the ruling of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, in particular Article 426, which clearly speaks about the character of war and which has repeatedly asked the question of the nature of the war in Croatia whether it is civil or it is a major Serbian aggression in Croatia, and then Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think there are any more doubts, Article 426 is very clear here. I began to answer the question of the esteemed Commissioner Reiner about the reader, who was published in December 2016 in Thessaloniki, to whom some Croatian historians and associates are involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55498	A colleague, just a little bit. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues for a moment of attention to allow the guest to speak normally here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55499	Among other things, the person who conducts the process in the professional working group of corricula history. So I think it is very important to warn of the following fact, the question here was who will be doing the review of this curricula, given that public issues have been asked the defence portal, let's say, and that these questions have not been answered. The other day news appeared in the press that a review of the curicula of history will be carried out by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. I see that this has caused unrest in the circles that are doing this curricula, so I keep in mind that in the reader that was listed here, and so much more so that Vukovar Hiroshima means Croatian and Serbian madness, it means equal responsibility and guilt for the destruction of Vukovar. In that reader when it comes to an attack on Vukovar, who attacked him? Yugoslav People's Army, Territorial Defence and Paramilitary. It does not specify which and whose militia units, whose territorial defence is that it is the territorial defence of Serbia, are Serbian paramilitary troops. The attack on Dubrovnik has been mentioned that it is being attacked by Montenegrin paramilitary troops, although the legal units of Montenegro are there, the MUP among other things is not mentioned as being attacked by Serbian troops from eastern Herzegovina. The scandalous statement mentioned here that the escalation of the war in Croatia, i.e. the Yugoslav crisis, was escalating after the international recognition of Croatia, which means '92. years like that in '91. There isn't a year, like nothing happened. The reader skipped important dates such as the first conflict held in Pakrac. Death or murder of 13 Croatian police officers in one day 2.5. So how will you understand the causal consequential links the beginning of open aggression if one such event is silenced in one day. 13 officers were killed in Croatia, which is what readers do. There's no mention of an attack on the Ban Courts, an assassination attempt on President Tudjman, not even mentioning 8.10. There's not much to mention. I'm not going to talk here about factographic mistakes, that you don't know when it's... He was in Croatia, that he didn't know when she was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wasn't finished in '96. It's '98. You don't even mention it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm talking about one content that's completely scientifically inappropriate, but it hurts me more why that's the case. The question here was whether our center was involved in the production of a caracule. It's not in phase one. We were rejected when we were supposed to be expert reviewers, but, of course, we participated in a public debate. However, what is symptomatic and I ask you to pay attention to this, and I am willing to face anyone else who has been in that debate, we are very clearly told, you said, remarks, and we will adopt them. And who we are in this professional working group, when none of them are concerned with modern history, and that's why it's important who does our review. Here, I am grateful to everyone for staying in Croatia. I think it would be a shame if the review of Croatian language and history was done outside Croatia. But the question arises as to how it is possible for one such reader to complete his process, and that none of the Croatian historians who participated in the design of this book could have found a consistent consultation with institutions such as the Croatian Institute of History, or our center that we are dealing with modern history. I've done one 10, 15 points here, but here's how things are, we don't have time to just tell you what data they presented in a reader's English language for teachers of Southeastern Europe's history. And what did those teachers after? and what these teachers will have after reading that reading, what they will have, how to learn about the war in Croatia. [[Intruder: Please be correct, please indeed for peace.]] Neither who's the cause nor the chronology will be able to tell, and the consequences we've heard through the media are the causes of the angle. Ignoring what fellow MPs have said about working in the BIH, of course there is no comment here on the causes of that war. Here is the silence that the Croats here have said in a legal and military sense that the BIH would survive from the defence of the BIH from participating in the referendum, from the liberation operation, there is not a word in this reader's mind, but the Croats are put together with the Serbs, as carriers of the separatist aspirations to separate the territory of the BIH. I would only ask the question which is separatist in that all decisions of the international community, the internal division of the BIH, were signed by the Croats. What is separatist about Croatians going to the referendum and supporting an independent BIH? Please, as Parliamentarians, there has been a lot of discussion here about history. If you're going to discuss the BIH war in BIH, don't ignore the latest literature, it's that there are 3000 pages. and 3 books are in play, from Jadranka Prlic, contributions to the history of Herceg Bosnia, from Mr Mate Arlovic on the constitutional legal nature of the establishment of the Croatian community Herceg Bosnia and Croatian Republic, these days we translate it into English. In fact, the translation is finished, I expect next week that the book will go to the press and the book by Professor Miroslav Tudjman The other side of Rubicon on the political platform of President Alija Izetbegovic. Look at the transcripts, look at the sources, and only then can we get into the debate. I'm telling you this on my example, because while I was only reading the paper, I had a completely wrong picture of events in the BIH. These are too serious things to discuss on the basis of imposed perceptions, perceptions imposed in the media, believe me, there are sources here and when we read these books we can discuss, respecting all other authors and literature. The most important thing is in that literature, which is sources. Is the memoir material or the documents and transcripts of the sessions, platforms and declarations of certain parties, persons etc. Please, it's too serious. Of course, I said it wasn't a civil war. But I'm less interested in what various officials outside Croatia say. We also have a formulation of civil war at Croatian universities. Some teachers have the same formula. We're not looking for anything, we're looking for a debate and the facts are being respected. In particular, therefore, people who are bothered by the fact that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is doing a review, even asking if there were even professional people there for this, practically, having the same thesis that there was a civil war in Croatia. Major Tepic, who is asked the question here, and that is interesting, you have no content in this reader and you do not have a date that is very important for understanding the history of the Homeland War, July 18, '91. year, decision to withdraw JNA from Slovenia. So the question arises, whose interests does JNA work for after 18 July? Whose interests Major Tepic defended by blowing up a warehouse in Bjelovar. These are things that are neglected, which are very important. The answer to the question about the work of the center and books in English is very clear in our report, we have ten bilingual books since 2016. Here, we have 2 new ones in English, including Mr. Mate Arlovic's book, so we take care of that too. As for capacity building, I am grateful to the Ministry of Culture, because we have obtained the possibility of hiring 3 new people in state archives. One is already employed in the State Archives of Slavonski Brod, because it is very important that we have a relationship with people who will only deal with the Homeland War. The Slavonski Brod area is very important for both the Bosnian Posavina and all these processes that are being conducted now and for the Croats from Orashje. And of course when we talk about expecting a second-degree verdict, I can only repeat what I've been repeating all these years when I've been giving a report, and I'm talking about facts I can't and I won't comment on the legal aspect of the verdict. And of course none of us have ever protected or justified the crimes committed, but talking about the joint criminal enterprise of Croatia is the thing that is in the thick collegiate with facts. If it hadn't been for Croatia, there would have been no Bosnia and Herzegovina. I just said why. The book of Jadranka Prlic speaks of the functioning of Herceg Bosnia and Mate Arlovic of constitutional and legal justification for the establishment of such a community that was not outside the borders and aimed at preserving the Croatian people in a situation where the central government in BiH had no means or opportunity to protect Croats. And if the Croats hadn't organised themselves, if they hadn't prevented Serbian aggression in the Glamoc, Grohov area, from Glamoc and Grahov to Livno, what would have happened to the south of Croatia and what would have happened to that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is where the media is mentioned. Unfortunately, you could never read in the media in Croatia that Croatian forces were only '95. More than 5,000 km2 of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been released in years. And when we talk about the legal aspects of punishing individuals, then we have to be very specific. One is the responsibility for participating in the rebellion and the organisation of the rebellion, and the other is the charge of war crimes. It's a matter of justice that can prove it. The people mentioned here doubtless were the organizers of armed rebellion and were involved in an armed rebellion. And the last answer here was the question of the defenders of the Serb national minority, and I agree that these are people who should be particularly highlighted. President Tudjman is a member of the Croatian Parliament in '96. In January, he mentioned approximately 9,000 defenders of Serbian ethnicity as participants of the Homeland War in Croatian Army and police units. We held a meeting in Opatija for teachers of history, i.e. this year as a special guest, we had a defender, a Croatian defender of Serbian nationality from Vukovar, the precious Misic. And his words at that gathering were very warmly accepted. Therefore, we should take care of all those who have defended Croatia regardless of nationality. Here's the thing about all these questions, I'm at my disposal any time. I'm sorry I didn't have time to read a dozen, fifteen points from that reading book. But why should I read it to you? So that you can understand what can happen if Croatian history is especially a modern history for which few people are engaged on the basis of a source, and we keep the original material that is trapped in the operations of Flash and Storm there is no dilemma about it. And what it could lead to if we had a review, this isn't about outcomes and some methodological nature, it's about the contents of that curricula. What would this lead to if foreigners reviewed our Croatian history? I deeply hope that this will not happen, and I'm actually amazed that there was a question at all about it because it's a matter of self-respect for every country. Thank you for your attention. I think I've managed to answer all the questions you've asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55500	Thank you. We have three replicas. [[Applause.]] First of all, he's a respected colleague of Pernar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55501	Dear colleague, you said that historical auditism is at work and I agree with you. However, the work is not only about historical revisionism related to the Homeland War, but also about historical revisionism related to the role of HDZ in the subsequent destruction and satirization of our country, in the destruction that led to the escape of young people and old age, families with children who led to people digging through containers, to people waiting in front of the lines for the soup kitchen, to the fact that in the privatisation that HDZ spent as in war wind, more jobs were missing than in war wind. And I'd like to look back on your words when you say we're not looking for anything but just a discussion and the facts are revealed. However, thanks to the outdated interpretation of the Supreme and Constitutional Court, no war profiter who, while others spilling his blood, will be punished by millions. It turns out neither Ivo Sanader will be punished, former HDZ president nor Anto Jelavić, president of the HDZ BiH, nor Djuro Gavrilovic, nor any other tycoon and privatisational actually profiteers. That's one big shame. Unfortunately, there's no such thing as shame here. We are constantly coming back to the Homeland War, and in Croatia today we are fighting another kind of war, a hybrid war in which we are attacked by vultures from America, united with domestic collaborators and who are planning to quickly squeeze big money, while Croatian workers and Croatian companies will be cut off. About that kind of war that's war I'd call it a new time that wasn't conducted by weapons, but information and money, unfortunately, in your speech, was not a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55502	Thank you, colleague Pernar. This wasn't a topic. The theme is the report on the work of the Memorial Documentary Center of the Homeland War. So, fellow Nazor all that he did and wanted to talk about the Homeland War and what was connected to the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55503	Here's to what the President of the Parliament said, I'll just point out that I wasn't talking about revisionism, I was talking about distorting the facts, about relativating responsibility when it comes to Vukovar. And otherwise review is something that is desirable in science, because science is not a water stand. In accordance with the new documents, we are obliged to review history and these claims we made today that I may have told you in five, ten years we will have to reconsider if new elections come. In that sense, as an audit, I don't see anything negative. However, it is necessary in the scientific process.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55504	Thank you. Another replica, dear fellow Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55505	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Nazor, I don't understand, but I'm actually aware that in this country of '45. Until the 1990s, there was a history that corresponded to that time, to those communists who wrote false history, and we had to learn a lot of things that weren't true. However, this continues from the 1990s to today, so I wonder who these historians who are not in that reader you mentioned saw these mistakes and saw that it was not a civil war but a war that we know where it came from and how it came from. My suggestion is that young historians who have been from the 1990s today have completed their doctorate in history begin to write history true, not those who have completed their doctorate in that former Yugoslavia, which most people today regret. And you're actually writing all the lies and they actually want to spread the lies and deepen further the way they were. Because they were never interested in the truth about Croatia and the Croats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55506	Okay. You've got to take this. You should take this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55507	I can only say, I have nothing to add here. We're not even going to call ourselves here personally. I always speak in principle, but I will take the opportunity to thank all of you for the support you've shown this year with the work of our center. Because here are the media, and some are very persistent that this center should be abolished. Their argument for abolishing the centre is that we are the agi pro official state policy that has the task of defending some state truth, and all those others are progressive, advanced and free. And we even go to that level to say that what we do should be accepted in the international public and even in Serbia. So I use the opportunity to answer to all of them that what our centre was doing, the books that we published specifically after Gotovina and Markac's first conviction that he accepted that from the court in The Hague, that the facts that we presented were also accepted in the International Court of Justice, and even in Serbia by scientists who have courage, had to talk about the process from the beginning, from the cause through chronology. And the late Srdja Popovic, let's say his references to the breakup of Yugoslavia, to everything that's happened are actually identical to what we're saying. Well, I took advantage of the opportunity to thank all of you and simply to those who speak in this way without reading or considering the sources, to look at some literature and judgments of the International Court of Justice. We are talking about Croatia's ruling against Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55508	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55509	Thank you very much. Mr. Nazor, you answered a number of questions that I asked on behalf of the club and individually and indeed the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War should be the basis for scientific history, to write the truth about the Homeland War. Thank you for talking about curriculative reform on the Homeland War issue. The fact is that it is expected of the Republic of Serbia to celebrate and to twist the truth in particular what is being done at the head is Mr. President, i.e. Chetnik follower Vukic. But as you comment, that's what I asked you, I'm going to ask you a question that Prime Minister Plenkovic is silent on my question in the Parliament, at the statement by his fellow coalition partner Milorad Pupovac, who compares the hero of the Homeland War, General Janko Bobetko with Slobodan Milosevic, Slavko Dokmanovic and convicted criminal Milan Babic. You didn't answer that question. I'm talking about the first man of the Croatian government this House has chosen. The time has passed for us, too, when the Homeland War was muddy to court European officials. Unfortunately, however, Serbia's pre-accession negotiations did not report that jurisdiction is legal over Serbia, on Croatian defenders, that the aggressor and criminals will judge Croatian defenders. It's a matter of national security. Please answer this question in front of the Croatian public and once again I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic to respond to these accusations by Pupovec against General Bobetko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55510	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55511	Your Honor, I'm sure Prime Minister Plenkovic will answer that question for you. I can tell you my opinion that General Bobetko is not a criminal. I can also tell you that sources clearly confirm where the aggression started, which is the role of Slobodan Milosevic and the Serbian leadership in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. That's clear, so I don't see what you can say more clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55512	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I join the compliments on the work of Director Nazor and the staff of his institution, however, I would like to add one appeal. It's not enough for me, I don't exclude myself from that criticism. It's not enough for us to tell ourselves how important it is to spread the truth about the Homeland War. We must produce much more, encourage scientists to write more about the Homeland War in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and include institutions in the world. To include foreign scientific centres in writing the truth about the Homeland War, and we have opportunities in the academic community to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55514	Your Honor, I have nothing to add. That's what we're working on. I will remind you once again that the English - language center has managed to respond to perhaps the most important points that were then. It is related to the first-degree verdict of General Gotovina and Markac. In English, we also published a book that is related to the, that is, the attack and occupation of Vukovar. We also have a book on Storm. And here is thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which you once led and Mr. Stier we managed this book by Mr. Doctor of Science Mate Arlovic, which I find very important that the world would understand at all these constitutional and legal positions and the nature of the establishment of the Croatian Community of Herceg Bosnia, namely the Croatian Republic of Herceg Bosnia, that these days the translation was completed in cooperation, so that this book in English will be available to all those who are really interested in this nature, i.e. the sources and legal interpretation of top experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-27-0.u55515	I thank everyone who participated in the debate. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met, and that will be within today's vote. The report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2016, submitted by the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, the debate was concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2016 is hereby accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 113 for and 3 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent parliamentary committee.
