ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25379	I thank you, Mr. President. The SDP advocates' club is looking for a break on the government's work, conflicts of interest in the government and, of course, Agrokor. We're asking for a 10-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25380	If there are no others, MP Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25381	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I am looking for a break regarding the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25382	Is there another, Agent Miro Bulj?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25383	I'm looking for the president, the MOST club is looking for a break, a current situation, a current political situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25384	Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25385	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS and HSU club is looking for a break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25386	Since there isn't, Agent Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25387	... The HDS, HSLS and HDSSB are looking for a break for the same reasons for 10 minutes. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25388	Is there anyone else from the MPs or counsel to ask for a break? If he doesn't, I'll set a 10-minute break. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. Honorable MPs and MPs, we continue to work. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Five clubs signed up for a break. The first club to report for a break is the SDP's Representatives' Club. On their behalf, the representative of Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25390	I thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Why were we looking for this break? Of course, as HDZ colleagues announced, one of the reasons for the break is the speech on the current political situation. Unfortunately, however, our reasons are much greater than that. The reasons are because we must warn from this pay phone about a network of conflicts of interest which is not only caught by Minister Maric that we are going to discuss today. We need to talk about a network of conflicts of interest that covered the entire government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. I don't know if you read the newspaper yesterday, if you've read the Croatian media, but if you haven't, I'll remind you. "National" against Mrs. Dalic is being conducted before the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. And for what? Because of the potential conflict of interest and violation of the principle of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest related to its relationship with INA. And what are the Prime Minister and Mrs. Dalic doing? The prime minister calls her to the INA Committee meetings, and according to all indications, Mrs. Dalic responds to the call and decides on the INA, although due to INA she is being prosecuted before the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest. Next, it's Mrs. Dalic again. “News” portal. We pointed out from this pay phone a few days ago that a law firm that was associated with the VTB bank first worked on making lex Agrokor, then the ministry provided us with information that it did not receive compensation, and after the extraordinary management procedure was launched, the law firm continued to work for Agrokor now under the government's commissioner. But the media are here to reveal the truth, the media came to the news yesterday that unfortunately not only did one law firm act that way, but it acted like a whole series of others. They were talking about an investment advisor who helped make the law. According to the ministry, he did not receive compensation for it, but received a prize. How? The extraordinary administration hired him to advise her in the conduct of the extraordinary administration procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, wherever you bury this government is this INA, it's the only thing that comes out that's conflict of interest and we're not gonna keep quiet about it. We will talk about it, because to all those who want to watch, it indicates to all those who want to listen what the government is about and points to who they support. But that's not all. Dear colleagues and colleagues, from this pay phone now unfortunately he is not here, I hope he will be here when he has to defend his fellow Minister Maric. From this pay phone Mr Plenkovic spoke about how lex Agrokor will save the Croatian economy, how it will help small suppliers. And what's the truth? Here it is, the index yesterday, small suppliers were forced to deliver the goods to Agrokor, and for that they do not receive compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, the boss is gone. [[Adversity President: Representatives.]] I know you regret it, but the master's habits in Agrokor remained under your extraordinary administration, under the extraordinary administration that came to Agrokor with the hands of HDZ and MOST. This government is the biggest damage Croatia has suffered over the past 27 years. [[Intruder President: Representatives I would beg you for peace!]] Unfortunately, this government is an indication that no one on the outside can do us any harm that we can do to ourselves. And that's why this government has to leave. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25391	Thank you. The next club of MPs who called for a break is the HDZ Representatives' Club. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak for them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25392	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club of Croatia sees it like this today. Croatia has a higher growth in gross social product, Croatia is an EU member country with the lowest deficit in Ireland and Denmark, Croatia is at which the employment rate is growing, Croatia is a country that is now slowly solving problems at the borders that were. That's exactly what our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic addressed in a conversation with Juncker, in a conversation with Cerer. He's provided the season with a tourist that should be the best ever. The alternative is what? Any government of the SDP, the sixth worst government in the world, the sixth worst government All the bad trends we had inherited from you [[Adversity President: Fellow MPs!]] My colleagues and colleagues, a law relating to the preservation of the economy, stability in the economy. [[Adversity President: Fellow MPs!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25393	Representative Maras and all the other MPs, I ask you to maintain order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25394	At the moment we want to preserve the stability of the economy, when I want these good economic trends to be improved, we have offered a law that has stabilised this Agrokor crisis. Where were you? What did you offer? You offered bankruptcy, you offered cancellations, you offered hopelessness to people, and you rhetorically fought for people, you offered nothing. You can therefore come here and raise a question of responsibility for any minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But what's your problem, you don't have a program, you have no idea, you don't know how to get the country out of this. You were on stage and you showed what you knew. What's important is this isn't a stage where we read the papers. This is not a stage where we will read the press reports, this is a stage where we should compete with ideas, where we should compete with programmes, where we should offer solutions to the difficult situation in Croatia. We have raised Croatia, Croatia should continue to move forward. All those who talk, there have been a lot of speeches and accusations that HDZ is protecting crime in Agrokor, people have institutions for that. There's M.O.P., there's justice, there's P.O.R., there's State's Attorney's office, and there's bodies that need to decide on that. That's not what this is all about. Finally, in the last year and a half, some others have led these resors, not led by HDZ people, and now to accuse HDZ is nonsense. What we want to say will not allow Croatia to return to recession where it was during your reign, Croatia will be stronger and Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25395	Thank you, Representative Bosnjakovic. I see that today there will be great tensions, I would ask only that by example, since the entire Croatian public is looking at you, by example, to show what the Parliament is. The club of representatives of the Independent Lists also called for a break. In their name will be the representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25396	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The debate here went the wrong way who has more reverse Croatia's SDP or HDZ, we will leave it, MOST certainly is not, we will leave it to our citizens to rule. I'd like you to act parliamentaryly, if you don't throw away, you all have a chance to say hello when there's a debate. What is focus and what will be the focus of my presentation is that the prime minister has no majority, that he has deceived Croatian citizens by protecting crime in Agrokor, that the architects of this plan, Bozinovic, Sheks and the rest of the team now realized that most of you are not there. They want this agony, this gambling, this buying of MPs to be extended until after the local elections and then put together some sort of ruling majority. Most of them are gone, last night MPs who have so far supported the ruling majority and we were among them, 15 hands, so Esih and MP Glasovic said they would not support the new majority, so most of them are gone. The prime minister should come here, apologize to Croatian citizens and the Croatian public and say that he destabilised the state, that he ran into himself, that he had listened to his mentors, made the wrong move, and that it would cause the whole country to be in big trouble. And what should and what should be fair from MPs who are now afraid of local elections, so they don't want to say their position, that they now say they want to be in HDZ's government like Lovrinovic, who goes as a living wall candidate, should give up his candidacy if he will support crime in Agrokor. He strongly criticised Minister Maric here in the Croatian Parliament, and now he's getting away with it, talking about stability. I'm curious that Agent Lackovic is not here, we should have supported him in Koprivnica-križevci County as an independent, will not have our support if he protects crime in Agrokor, will not have that support means everyone else. Regardless of how the vote goes on Minister Maric, it is obvious that there is no parliamentary majority, it is obvious that the government has no support. A colleague of Bosnjakovic, whom I highly respect, who is an honest and calm man, said we have ministries. We have ministries, but we have no ministers, a colleague of Bosnjakovic's. The ministers were removed because they did not agree with Prime Minister Plenkovic's policy, and those mentors in the event of new elections know how many votes they would receive, you gave up those who won the parliamentary elections. I am interested in how many colleagues Jandrokovic has votes, how many votes there are Bozinović, if you are honest with Croatian citizens, let's go to the polls and see how you and the architects of this plan for the protection of crime in Agrokor will go through. You've brought the state into a difficult situation, and you don't have a majority, the prime minister has deceived the citizens, and that's why it needs to be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25397	HNS-HSSU's representative club also reported for a break. In their name will be spoken representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25398	Thank you very much, President. So people, the citizens of Croatia that we should care about and who pay us to sit here and make difficult decisions sit, watch this circus and with full justification and disgust turn their heads. We've been repeating for days that we're not all alike and then very conveniently yesterday, I don't know which time I hear an angry lie again in public space, which has become a hobby of Croatian politics to falsely accuse political competitors, political rivals, and in this way we think we're going to get some points. From a person who rarely refers to the president's moral and Christian values, who, without a twinkling, lies in the camera and whose least interest is not to safeguard the dignity and self, the people who chose him, the people who chose all of us and the votes you received in this House. And I'm sure you know one of God's commands, I don't know which is, I think it's 8, don't say false testimony. Let's ask ourselves, to analyse is you moral verticals and Christian values. Don't say false testimony. Base your political work on seriousness, on a spoken word that cannot be returned and on the clear results you need to bring. I'm not going to continue who's lying and stealing, but what we've heard in the last few days, the terrible accusations of HDZ against the MOST that thieves are incompetent, from MOST to HDZ, that thieves are capable. Out of your interest in the last year and a half to completely discredit the opposition. But who cares about the country? Who today cares about the country? I don't see, unfortunately, and I'm sure they don't see Croatian citizens either. And that's why I want to repeat it again and draw attention primarily to Croatian citizens, we're not all the same, we choose differently. We choose to confront ideas and results, not lies, disgusting ones, that happen in the last few days. Apply to the thieving in Agrokor. Well, it hasn't been a long time, a few weeks, when the vote on lex Agrokor was cast, the opposition made it clear against it. We even gave some amendments, wanted to be constructive, so to try to improve it a little bit, they were rejected, well, with full right. And then the hands of HDZ and MOST who are equally responsible, both of them vote for this destabilisation of Croatia lex Agrokor. What does that mean? They're guarding crime in Agrokor? Where did the Enlightenment in 15 days take place after the passed law where I could beat up whatever I thought you were protecting crime with that law 15, 20 days ago, you raised your hand for him by colleagues from the Most and colleagues from HDZ. But I choose differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25399	The HDS advocates' club, the HDSSB, also called for a break, will speak for them by representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25400	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I rarely answer my word, however, it seems to them that it is time that we all have to think about what we are doing, where we are and who we are here for. I will begin with a proverb that says that a wise man forgets insults as the ungrateful forgets charity. A wise man forgets his insults and the ungrateful forgets his kindness. What does that mean in a particular situation? That there are people who have offended us and that there are people who have done us good. We insulted each other here and I apologize to everyone I've offended and I'm willing to apologize to him personally. But I am grateful to whoever made it possible for me to come here, primarily to the voters. And now the question is, are we forgetting the voters who chose us and why this kind of enmity here? What makes you gentlemen think we're enemies? I assure you we are not enemies, nor do I wish to be your enemy. And all that evil thought to you, may God give to me. But I call you to account, I call you on behalf of the situation in which the society, in which the state is located, is located. I invite you not to insult first, and I say the same thing to Most, personally to no one here, we started with names yesterday, so we don't mind whether someone is going to be among 76 who will support or not be, so that moral or immoral one is. With what right? With what right? Do we have the right to forget those who are under wraps, who are blocked and what are we going to get by heroizing that we are ready for the election? So who are we? Let's pretend we're ready for the election, gentlemen. But if we look into the truth, we'll see that it doesn't suit anyone. I now sign here that I will not be in the next Parliament, that I will not run but maintain this Parliament. Keep it. Because every, every, every discontinuity is a danger to the most dangerous in this country. To be content with the fact that we're here to be filmed and in the comfort of this position we forget the others we're here for. I assure you we will be returned in an ugly way both personally and collectively. We're not taking care of our own ego. We take care of what the benefactors who have given us trust and what makes him behave like this. Dear colleagues, take care of yourself in a situation where you are in a position to take care of others is a moral betrayal, a moral destruction. Politics here as strange as it looks to you is in a different plan. I would support you, support every majority and say I'm leaving Parliament. But this really doesn't make sense. Thank you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25401	I am looking for a break in the Parliament on the delicacy that will be held in Zagreb at 12:30 sharp.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25402	I'd just ask Agent Pernar if we don't have a problem granting a break after we've solved the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25403	The problem is Mr. Petrov, this is a very important thing for these people because they're going to fly into the street while they're there banging their propaganda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25404	I'm approving a 10-minute break. MEETING IN 12.25 HOURS I ask MPs and MPs to take their seats. We're going back to work. Representative Pernar requested a break on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u25406	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Bozo Petrov, in these moments on the Pestnica, means exactly 12.30 p.m. is scheduled to perform an act whose execution is likely to take place. It's an apparent blurry thing. I'll read you the conclusion. The Republic of Croatia, the Municipal Court in New Zagreb, Turinina 3 says this: The municipal court in New Zagreb according to the court, Maria Karadjole, as an individual judge in the executive affairs of the Zagreb executive Ivanka Radić, represented by Ljiljana Mandek, lawyers in Zagreb, against the performer Ante Arbanas from Zagreb for the sake of the decision. What is controversial in this case about what is the executive means Ivanka Radic is a deceased person. So, we have a case where the deceased, so according to the court's ruling, is bringing people alive to court. How can I ask you, Mr. Maric? Plenkovic unfortunately left, so the deceased could be a party in the process and actively conduct disputes. That's not clear to me. He says this: Implementation of the solution for the execution of the municipal court in Zagreb, business number OVR-158/14 of 1 August 2014 for the eviction of the executors from the three-bedroom apartment, Livadar road 50 consisting of one room, an upgraded hall with kitchen and toilets and sheds in front of the apartment is set for 3rd May 2017 at 12:30 p.m. That's right today. Implementation is being ordered by the court executive, Ljubomir Svalina. It is called upon the executive to provide for those day and time workers who will carry things from the apartment, transport for the performer's belongings, locksmiths, presence of adult witnesses, etc. How can an executive who is a deceased person ensure these conditions? How? Can someone explain it to me from you experts from this government? He goes on to say: “The executive is warned that unless one of these conditions is provided by points 1 to 5 for the implementation of the exercise that the procedure will be suspended if it does not meet.” But I ask you again how can the deceased be a party in the process and carry out someone’s dissuasion? I don't know how no one sees this legal absurdity and that HDZ and their criminalization of the entire state and criminalisation of the judicial system leads us to one severe, deep legal uncertainty of all our citizens who can end us today or tomorrow on the road, or even in such absurd cases. I'll read on. He says: "The executive action will be carried out with the participation of the members of the MUP PUZ Department of Public Order." Itd. etc. etc. No legal remedy is allowed against this conclusion. I repeat, the address is Castarski put 50. So, at these moments on the Livadar road, 50 takes action for an executive who's a dead person. There you go, gentlemen. Dear citizens, tomorrow you might find yourself in a situation like this gentleman I was talking about. The man's name is Ante Arbanas from Zagreb. That's our legal system. Maybe one day this is how they'll read your decision on dejagging, you never know. Because with the HDZ government, which is only credible in lying, manipulating, in making false promises that he doesn't keep, you can expect everything. And it's sad that there was a man sitting here, now he's gone, he's cowardly escaped, and all the while he's showing up as a brave man, who claimed to protect the only real estate from the execution. Here's how it protects her, the only real estate. So he's deposing people and doing it in a deep legal way. And here you see, in fact, that the system doesn't work, that it's nakaradan and that this government is leading us nowhere, that its time is up, that it's 76 hands gone and that it has to go as quickly as possible for all of us ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37529	We're going back to work. The first point is - The proposal to launch a trust issue for Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by 46 MPs and representatives based on Article 125. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate will be held in accordance with Articles 125 and 126. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials into the boxes. The government was very clear about this proposal. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. Representative Davor Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37530	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister of Finance. Today, a proposal for the resolution of the finance minister has been sent on the agenda by the signatories of parliamentary deputies. My colleagues and colleagues, I remember Croatian citizens in the 1990s and that national enthusiasm and words that still ring out in my head "O God, what a country it will be". Small as Switzerland, yet so many times more beautiful, independent, a country that has such natural potentials that can feed 30 million people, a country where everyone will want to live. And I remember this mild look and my father's deep voice, which pushed me around like he wanted to calm me down when he went to the Homeland War and said, "It's gonna be okay, I'll be back in 40 days." Years passed, days passed, times passed. But what was passing was the human fates, the human fates that became people without work, the pensioners without protection, the ranks for black bread. It's just that we've been pinched, a frequent wheeze of BMW tires in the late 1990s reminding us that some things in Croatia didn't go well. That the conversion and privatisation took hold, that the Croatia that was wounded in the Homeland War was put salt on the wound. Today, 20 years after this scenario, the foundations and such Croatia are rocking. I went into politics as a child because I wanted to fight injustice. I saw the injustice as something that we all need to fight together and we need to make it known within us that Croatia must become a country of equal opportunities. And only when every child in Croatia has the same chance will Croatia have a chance to succeed. Politics is for me work and denial, work 24 hours a day, work in the service of citizens, work for the interests of our country, and not for individual interests. Denial. Renouncing privileges, giving up privileges, giving up easy lifestyles, giving up if you want those privileged things such as credit or other privileges that can unfortunately be obtained in Croatia. Things were looking good yesterday in Agrokor, and that's what needs to be said. We were looking forward to the acquisition in the region and Serbia and Slovenia. I was happy when Agrokor bought Mercator, I was happy to watch some companies grow on good grounds. I was happy to see Croatian success, the success of Croatian agriculture and Croatian people. And we as a country, as humans, must rejoice in our successes. We must look forward to all those who are able to create value. But can't anything in this country go without a lie, no fraud and no deception. And today we have come to that lesson that we can read, which is that there is no long-term success and no long-term happiness through other people's sweat and money, money from Croatian citizens. He can't go wrong, he can't cheat and he can't lie. Today, this model has been known since the 1990s if I stop falling, the peri-poly of the then policy "who has pitted, pitied" threatened complete Croatian stability. Because at the moment Slovenia has also brought the Lex Mercator. At this point, the payout money and suppliers may have until 31.5 and not enough. At this moment, the resolution of this burning Croatian problem has been delayed to practically beyond the local elections. All decisions of this government have been postponed by the government for tomorrow. The ransom of the INA, the commission to face the past, the educational reform, has been delayed for tomorrow, as our people would say, a little tomorrow. But what was brought yesterday urgently, it was spotlessly lex Agrokor, with the assistance of law firms in an open conflict of interest. So it can be when great and strong interests are in the game, much stronger than Croatia's interest, even much stronger than the interests of the HDZ itself. I'm sorry about that. What about those little juice producers, potatoes, if you want a wish, whose hands are bad and who have been raising loans to finance the debt, with which these people smiled today and the prime minister himself but those who feed their family and those who care about human dignity? What about the workers and workers in Konzum? What about workers and workers and other related companies? Do you have at least a little responsibility for them? Here was the thesis you want enmity, no, we want successful Croatia, Croatia that understands problems, Croatia equal opportunities, and we can't achieve this until the laws in Croatia are equal for all and we can't do it unless you see it next to healthy eyes. We called for dialogue five months ago in the interest of our country and I am always and at all times ready for dialogue. Let us sit down, see how we can enable educational reform in Croatia, see how we can decentralize the country, that more money remains where this money is created, to see how we can defend Croatia's energy independence, to see how we can make business easier for entrepreneurs, but also to protect workers in Croatia, to raise minimum wage in Croatia, to make in Croatia workers, regardless of the depth of their pockets, to pay their children for education. I called for dialogue from the dialogue there was nothing. Even during the previous government, hence HDZ and MOST a year ago, some of the first laws to be postponed were the factoring law that hid billions of kuna duties in the large Croatian company, now in major problems in Agrokor, but one of the first moves was also an attempt to abolish the Tax UskoK. We need to remember that if someone wants to defend themselves by working, then we need to remind ourselves of the work. If it hadn't been for reason at the last minute, if it hadn't been for the media pressure, remember that a year ago, the Taxskirt working to detect tax evasion and extract funds for personal gain would have been abolished, a billion kunas of Croatian citizens' money would have been saved by that move. The government's first decision was also to expand social inequalities, it was a tax reform that allowed those who had more to have more and those who had less to have even less. Then comes the great chain of responsibility in the case of Agrokor and everything that has been going on in the last few months with Agrokor. The chain of responsibility in which today's finance minister was involved, which is less important here in Parliament today. What is more important is the issue of responsibility, the finance minister who worked in charge of financing in the company. And the question arises that if he had a big salary there that's being talked about, 60 thousand kuna, 100 thousand kuna, how is it possible that he didn't know anything about that company, how could he not have known what was going on in Agrokor? Isn't that what makes him a little uncomfortable? Here is not a matter of criminal responsibility today, this is a matter of moral, human and political responsibility. It is not important the minister I have known since 2008, 2009 while working as secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance, where we met here in the Croatian Parliament, here is an important principle, whether there is any responsibility in Croatia, whether you respect your institutions, whether we respect our country, whether we love our people, whether we want to be an example of our children. A week ago, I was in Beliss, where a Belissic resident told me with a tear in my eyes that he had to hurry home so he couldn't be around anymore because he had to go talk to his grandson on skip, a grandson who was along with his son in Dublin. And that is this sad Croatian reality. And that's why this isn't a matter of shift, this isn't a question of Maric, this is a matter of face and responsibility. Do you have a responsibility, do you have a face? If you had a cheek, you wouldn't say you were right next to clear evidence. But if you had a responsibility, you'd go on your own and help Plenkovic and HDZ as well. This is the real question, why did you bring the entire HDZ into this situation and bring Prime Minister Plenkovic, the man who gave you confidence? You'll look for the answer yourself. But what is evident is that there is a much stronger interesting relationship that protects one man against the principle of Croatian interest even from the interest of HDZ. We'll vote tomorrow, but it's less important how the vote goes, but it doesn't matter. What we'll be able to see tomorrow is who's there, who's going to defend the principle and who's going to defend the interest. Croatia will be a successful country only when the country has equal opportunities. And we can't, like I didn't, neither of us chose the place of our birth, but we can choose the country in which we live, we can choose the country where our children will be born, and in which our children will live. We can choose the country in which our entrepreneurs will create. We can choose the land in which to work, build and serve the people. That's the kind of country we can choose. And only when the laws in Croatia are equal for everyone and not just for some, will Croatia be a successful country. Only when every child in Croatia can be educated no matter how deep the pockets of his parents Croatia will be a successful country. And only those who produce, build and work will work under the same conditions in Croatia as everyone else, Croatia will be a successful country. As SDPs, we saved Croatia twice, removed it from a severe economic, moral crisis, financially exhausted and stolen and recovered it and put it on the path of growth and development. We are ready to return the future to Croatia for the third time. And there's a difference between politicians and statesmen. A politician is more important than his face. A statesman's face is more important. The politician is referring to the next election and the statesman is referring to the next generations. And that's the point. And that's why I'm sorry that today I can find out that the prime minister is, unfortunately, just another politician because wherever we turn in this HDZ government, we're facing a conflict of interest. It's the personal identification number of this government. And gentlemen of the HDZ, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen from all other Croatian parties, I invite you if there is only one Croatia don't do this to her.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37531	Representative Miro Bulj, first responds to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37532	My colleague Bernardić, I would like to agree with your first part of the exhibition where you instructed that in the Homeland War the Croatian State was created in the community. However, in this second part, you forgot to say that the case of Agrokor was not only the case that was during the HDZ but it was in 2014 at the purchase of Merkator when SDP and your prime minister at the time, then Mr Vrdoljak Minister of Economy, the praises sent about the great success of the Croatian economy, in fact it was the end of the Croatian economy and... in the last few months as the great friend also said to your leader in the past term, who said that since 2012, everyone knew everything about Agrokor only knew not the finance ministers at that time, Mr. Lalovac, Minister of Economy, Minister now Finance Mr. Maric, everyone knew everything and apparently they knew nothing and brought Croatia where they had brought them. As far as privatisation itself is concerned, yes, you started privatization of the INA, HDZ finished, as far as telecommunications HDZ has started privatisation, you are finished. And that, however, needs to be interrupted. And I agree, as far as I'm concerned, MOST stopped the IRS last year to cancel the IRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37533	reply to the replica, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37534	Only after severe media pressure has been stopped is the suspension of the Tax Jump and only after a major action and reaction by the SDP and other opposition parties, that should be said clearly. And Mr. Bulj, in Croatia no one must run from responsibility, from any party. I look forward and look forward to every Croatian success, every Croatian company, every entrepreneur who manages to create something. But if there's a responsibility that it's done in the cross, that it's done in fraud, that it's done over the back of those who are, who are financing our country, then it's a responsibility that needs to be established. And I am absolutely to shed light on everyone in Croatia, everything and all the details but you yourself know that the biggest responsibility of HDZ and MOST government is the last year and a half in the whole situation that is happening around Croatia's instability and around Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37535	Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37536	Thank you very much. I'll look back on the part where you said you were a happy man when Agrokor bought Mercator, a good firm. Do you know when it was? When you were a representative and Zoran Milanovic was the president of the SDP government. And you say you're unhappy today. Why are you unhappy? You are unhappy that you have managed to offer as head of the opposition, as head of the SDP three solutions. First, at the vote, you offered the bankruptcy of all those working in that corporation, including these cashiers you're talking about. You offered them to go out with that bankruptcy on the streets, to lose their wages, to keep suppliers from getting their money and thus to catch SDP by what political point. What else did you offer them? You offered them a free phone on Ibler where no one answered, and you offered them the fact that you could just do the most for them by taking pictures of selfie with sour desire. This is your contribution to solving the crisis in Agrokor. What I think, I think, as head of the opposition, you can do better than that. Because there really is a potential in every man to show both right and wrong about himself. I don't know why you insist on this other one, because the fact is that you make decisions you don't know and that's what your colleague Grbin told you once at the club. You have made the wrong decision, you have called off one of the best ministers in the Croatian government who has arranged public finances and are asking me to choose between the knowledge of Zdravko Marić and your knowledge or knowledge of some of your skills. Personally, I will always choose the knowledge that the current finance minister has. Because it contributes to the stabilisation and contributes to the improvement of this country. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] And HDZ is always in the football dictionary for SDP That's what I'm saying. [[Adversity President: Representative Boric is out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37537	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37538	Well, I'll tell you very clearly. Yes, we immediately offered a solution to how to immediately pay for small producers, how to protect Croatian agriculture, how to enable all Croatian farmers to be present on the shelves of all trade chains. Yeah, we told you that. You didn't even listen to us! But, Mr. Boric, you may have shown most so far how much you care about Croatian farmers. So you make fun of Croatian desire, with producers of herbs, potatoes, with people working in the field, feeding their family. You're making fun of them. So how come you're not embarrassed? If you don't already have cheeks and responsibilities, why don't you at least have a little morality?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37539	Tomislav Klaric answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37540	Dear colleague Bernardic, I was at construction sites on Saturday, road asphalted, workers pulled that asphalt, it was +40. And today I listen to the leader of the opposition party who says his father gave him up, who talks about talking to his grandson in Dublin, about the tears in the eye and how there is only one Croatia. And here the minister calls, here he calls the government, and he doesn't suggest anything. At least your predecessor felt strength and attitude, here I felt nothing. I haven't seen any argument here for this request you're looking for for a minister's shift. You're still saying this is a matter of principle. What are your principles? Do you think that that worker who's paved there at +40 is interested in this all that you've said here as head of the opposition party or interested in us having a stable government, having next Saturday or next week some new construction site where he'll work, where he'll earn his salary? I had the Pevec bankruptcy. I've seen what it means when people stand in front of buildings, they keep that building and the goods inside, and they don't get paid for months. What did we want with Agrokora, with thousands of people? You're the leader of the opposition party, it's your right to demand the shifts of ministers, governments or I don't know what. But show some firm attitude, convince us here that we are now in a position that you are a strong opposition. With your speech I heard here, I didn't feel it. And how you said your father gave you a hard time when he was going to the battlefield. When I was leaving, I was holding the kids in my arms, they were one and two years old, and I was wondering if I'd ever see them. But are these children now interested? What you were saying or wondering if we had a stable, solid government. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] who can lead this country into a better future. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37541	Representative Klaric is out of time. Reply to the replica, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37542	So why didn't your father like you? What did your father beat you? So I'm asking you? I don't know why such trauma. Look, Mr. Claric, if you can't be convinced in this situation, I can only tell you, God can't help you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37543	Representative Grozdana Peric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37544	Dear Mr Bernardic, your exposure was full of pathetic and demagogy. Here's what my colleague Klaric said, and I was just thinking about it. So we've all been through a period of war and after a war in conditions that you've never even seen before. And don't talk about what you don't know. Also, when you spoke about calling for dialogue, what my colleague said, you must show your attitude, and this government and these ministers are the ones who need to bring solutions together with the prime minister. So they give and offer solutions all the time to get out of all of this properly and as painlessly as possible whether it's Agrodor or any other company in this country. So all of these measures that have been made in the last half of the year are just helping to make all of us more expensive, more stable, more normal, living and working, and we don't need the pathetics that you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37545	Replication response, MP Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37546	Well, first of all, Commissioner Peric, I'm sorry that it's pathetic and demagogy for you that the whole Zadar of the people you come from has moved to Ireland and Canada, and I'm sorry that it's pathetic and demagogy for you. I'm sorry it's pathetic and demagogy for you that make potatoes, desires that can't pay their obligations, which are convulsing in debt and who wonder how they'll feed their family. I am sorry that there are thousands of workers and workers in Croatia who do not receive their salaries and whose jobs are at risk because of what we have on the agenda today. Look, the only thing I can say is, if the sad fate of these people, Croatian producers, farmers, workers and workers for you is pathetic and demagogy, then I don't know who you represent in this Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37547	Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37548	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bernardic. It's important, so I didn't want to miss it, so I came back to apologize. The people of Sladojevac knew Joseph as a valuable worker of the Latin company Klasje in bankruptcy and a good neighbor, ready to help everyone when needed. ... he came home from Klasja on a fatal afternoon, where he and his colleagues were on strike for unpaid pay. He complained that the company said that next week the workers would be fired. He had coffee with his wife, went into the house and killed himself. This is the fate of our people. I agree with you, we are not talking about Minister Marić today, we are talking about a model that is real during the Homeland War, which are creators, I am sorry that the creators of such a model are coming out of the consultation today, they continue to implement such a policy by protecting those who have become rich during the Homeland War and this is the problem of this country. And actually today, when it comes to Minister Maric, it's actually about whether we're going to continue or not. The only time I disagree with you is when we talk about pre-nuptial deals, about lex Agrokor they perform when money has already been drawn, when companies have been robbed, and until then no one has done anything about it. And that's why I think keeping every job is very important, so as you can see, and in this case, it can end with fatal consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37549	Reply to the replica, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37550	Well, thank you, Mr. Sagar. The day before yesterday I was in your county and in Slavonia I'm practically every other day. And it's usually said that the hungry don't believe it, the one who doesn't leave, who doesn't see it, who doesn't feel it, who doesn't have it in the family can't even figure it out. And you see what today is the main debate and the main argument, that some opposition president is painting and advertising Croatian product. So you see, as far as we're in Croatia, do you see all the misery of arguments, the misery of politics, I'd say the misery of morality that's trying to show itself here. It should be our task, too, to encourage Joseph of Sladojevac and such examples to give what is best of themselves, and that will only happen when in the laws of Croatia they are worth the same to everyone, not just some.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37551	Representative Blaženko Boban answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37552	Dear colleague Bernardic. This exhibition of you reminds me of the one in Croatia, unfortunately, the syntagma that says, makes it harder for you to succeed than your own failure. Indeed, it may be a pain in the Croatian people. I'll tell you two words about lex when you're already talking, you're closing the door to the dialogue at times when it really is necessary and when you were invited to discuss the proposal of the Lex Agrokor law, but arrogantly and arrogantly you bring up the lex Perkovic which you and almost closed the door of the EU at that moment. And then Mr. Plenkovic shows up and opens that door and now he opens the borders to make the tourist season work. Your failure, Mr Bernardic, is justified by demagogy and politics, you are clearly unable to resolve the situation and situation in your own ranks, while this government reduces the debt charged to the maximum by four years, reduces the deficit, brings tax reforms. And you don't even know the most basic mathematical collection operation of up to 76, so the press has to help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37553	Just before Mr Bernardic, before I allow a reply to the replica, I will warn you, although no one has raised a staff for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, do not belittle the parliamentary representatives and I would ask all the clubs to do so. I would pray that today we have a dignified debate and show the Croatian voters what we hold to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37554	Your Honor, Agent Boban. It's a different saying for you, and that's to keep no one out until someone's dead. And if one door was opened by Mr Plenkovic, he opened the mayoral candidate door for you in Split-Dalmatia County. After the Golden War affair where you wanted a symbol of Croatia, Croatia's salary, the most beautiful Croatian beach, the pearl of the Adriatic, sell, leak, inn and act after media pressure, after the organisation of the people. After Croatia and Croatian people in Dalmatia said no, he did it in the only possible way. So if someone's talking about opening the door, you're definitely that person.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37555	Representative Ivan Celic reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37556	Dear Representative Bernardic, four years ago you were an unsuspecting candidate for the mayor of Zagreb, and then you were decapitated by the summit. Now you're hiding from the back of former Minister Mrak-Taritash. As longtime president of the Zagreb SDP, you were unable to give the candidate. Now, which is quite legitimate, you want to be mayor of Croatia as your political mentor Milan Bandic often speaks. For the past four years in the City Assembly, I have listened to your speeches like this in Tokyo, as it is in Kuala Lumpur, as it is in Johannesburg but there is no solution. You're asking here based on some insinuations, you're questioning the status of Minister of Finance Dr. A healthy Maric who has a career behind him. And it's obviously a sin in Croatia if you're working in some big firm, and then after that, you can't even work in any state institution after that, you're a criminal right now. I think it would be perfectly legitimate for you to resign as president of the SDP of Croatia, I think it would be best at the moment, especially if there will be new elections. And I still want to give you some well-intentioned advice. The squirrels are very cuddly animals but they can also carry the disease. Beware of squirrels and if you do not know what squirrels are ask former predecessor Milanovic who they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37557	Reply to the replica, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37558	I see you pushed into the Zagreb story, I only have one question for you, Mr. Celic. Who do you support in the elections in Zagreb, Mrs Bruno Esich or Mr Drago Prgomet? I just wish you'd answer that. I just wish you'd answer that. When you tell me honestly who you support in the elections in Zagreb I will think about everything you said and until then I will not spend a minute on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37559	Representative Branko Hrg is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37560	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bernardić, I don't know if you should have been replicated at all because you've been replicating yourself from the very beginning. What it is,...... No, I will, I will, I will tell you what I disagree with in your presentation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What you mentioned, you were talking about some BMW pinch in the '90s, and then you connected it to happy times when Agrokor was buying during the SDP government, he was developing. I will join here in the opinion of my colleague, Boric, and say that I was not very happy at the time because I could not be happy when Agrokor bought a cross miller at the time and buried it, destroyed it. And then I made it public, loudly said that I disagreed and that it was the wrong policy and you were happy, then you raised your hands as the ruling majority, here in the Croatian Parliament and supported it. You were talking about small producers. So remember the policy, the policy of your government that you supported, it systematically destroyed small producers. Remember your Minister Jakovina who has been working on a rural development programme to help the big and fat ones. Did we forget that? That's the policy when you were happy. I wasn't happy. The only thing I can agree with you here, you said a politician thinks of new elections and the statesman thinks of future generations. I think you're a politician and Prime Minister Plenkovic is a statesman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37561	Reply to the replica, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37562	Your Honor, Mr. Hrg, as you said I was replicating myself, then I remain in the presence of your own replication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37563	Representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37564	Your Honor. Dear colleague Bernardic, I was expecting arguments, facts, exact data. And I have to admit that it sounded absurd to listen to this because instead we got a general literary paper of which your 30 minutes you had for a total of 28 minutes you devoted something that sounded like a task force of a very gifted young man and the other 2 minutes were really dedicated to the subject that we're all here for today. That's absurd. So much for arguments. But Mr. Bernardic, I'd like to ask you, there were finance ministers who over-indebted the state, who were making rebalances on rebalancing, who were doing more damage than good, and then no one asked for the replacement of these and such ministers. On the other hand, we now have a minister who is very competent, perhaps of the most competent and who could really benefit and who could stabilize the financial system if you had a chance to do so and you're now looking for his shift. Are the reasons really a concern for the welfare of the state or are there other reasons? And I know what you're going to answer me in your reply to the replica, so I'm going to beat you to it because you answered me last time, that HRID and HDZ, but why? Well, because on the same principles of democratic values, concern for man and the same principles of responsible approach to work and fighting arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37565	Replication response, MP Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37566	First of all, here's a thank you for complimenting me on this gift, I really thank you. The second thing, you mentioned that the minister would stabilise the financial system. So, don't you see that the complete situation of the confidence of the Minister of Trade of the Three Most Ministers of the Government has just destabilised Croatia and destabilised the Croatian financial system. Can you not see that? And secondly, the question is of course for you because somehow I always want to know which one of you are strangers now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37567	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37568	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about ourselves or when we send a picture to the public or via Facebook, we always put the most beautiful picture or the most beautiful rival or friend, friend, girlfriend, mistress even next to ourselves and go public with the fact that we admire how beautiful, blue, tall as some of our colleagues. And those fears so that someone doesn't find out who we are and who we are, we keep it deep inside each other, we all know it very well. And that's how we attack the other side of each other, you're like this, we're the same or they're the same or they're gonna be. But we're forgetting our past again. We didn't all find ourselves here at the birthplace, in a kindergarten this innocent, beautiful. We all have our own ways of life and history that we draw for ourselves. If each of us turned around and looked around, he'd see someone missing in this society. When I turn around, I see only one or two friends here that I remember from my past from bloody ways while we were defending ours and liberating our country. And when you turn around, then you will see that he lacks some ministers, colleagues who were there with you and who agreed. The price of wood will be so high for the energy in Babina Greda, and over there in Stroshinci we'll shut down that there are no cutters in the woods, we'll take their woods. So they don't have it anymore. Then we'll go to Babina Greda and we'll open up a school hall for them, it's just a cornerstone, and then we'll do a lot more, a lot more in Gunja, and wherever we go, we'll cover it up, and then we'll forget that he's gone, too, and we'll talk about little OPGs to be saved, and he's the main oppressor of it. So I'll ask at the end Minister Ranko I'll stay if you're here, you locked me up, and Orepic you're not. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37569	Agent Culey, thank you. Representative Bernardić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37570	Thank you, Mr. Culey. You said it all right. Not you, but many other bloody underpants walked around Velebit to steal and destroy Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37571	Representative Marija Jelkovac responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37572	In your discussion, you showed a lot of desire, you called for the creation of idyllic in Croatia metaphors and poetic figures. But unfortunately you did not offer as well as when SDP was ruling in Croatia solutions for problems, mechanisms how to achieve these wishes. Of course it is easy to call out from the opposition's corner, to call for responsibility, to accuse Minister Maric today, tomorrow of someone else, and forgetting that it is not responsible. You invite all of us here to be responsible, and in fact you're not acting responsibly because you're looking for the replacement of a minister who's a professional, who does his job legally, whose only sin is that in his résumé he was once a worker, an employee of Agrokora. You didn't bring out a single agrument in your debate. I have to tell you that this morning a fellow citizen of mine told me I'm not a member of the HDZ, but don't give me Maric. You know why he said that? Our fellow citizens don't need instability, they don't just need nice words, they need jobs, they need people who know how to run the country, and they need responsible people who will stand behind their spoken words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37573	Thank you. Replication response, MP Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37574	... a poet figure. [[Specially enabled.]] You really have a strange literary taste, that's all I can say. Yes, will you be part of the solution or will you be part of the problem? When we established a conflict of interest, we proposed a solution, very clearly. What's not responsible? It is not responsible to comply with the laws of this country. You don't think that's responsible? No, exactly the opposite. That's the answer. When a conflict of interest is established, it is responsible to resign, it is responsible. Instability. You mentioned instability. So who initiated the instability? Is that SDP? Is that me? Or last week, three ministers who have had Croatia going through a major political crisis for five, six days. And you'll get the answer. So, instability was initiated by your president and you, your party. They initiated instability in Croatia and thank you on the other hand for listening carefully to my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37575	Representative Ljubica Lukačić answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my dear colleague Bernardic, on several occasions, you have mentioned the same opportunities many times in your presentation. I’m especially sensitive when other people mention equal opportunities because they naturally refer to people with disabilities. You said you wanted equal opportunities for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, I can't believe it, and do you know why? Because twice when your party had the opportunity to equalize opportunities for all citizens, then to people with disabilities it didn't happen. During the time your party's authorities the rights of persons with disabilities were reduced in principle were lower. This government has finally begun to restore dignity to people with disabilities. I hope you're watching this, because I know you're going to tell me now that we've known each other for a long time and we've been trying to solve things together, etc. But to equate opportunities, you know what's important, you know that? It's money. Minister Maric is exactly the man who said if we can do something or can't. And in these six months, it's been done more than backwards for many, many years. And you know it. So don't talk about equal opportunities, I can't agree with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37577	Reply to the replica, MP Benardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37578	... based on our work, if you will in the city hall where we have allowed equal scholarships to people with disabilities, where we have allocated additional money to adapt all facilities in the city of Zagreb, where we have allowed people to finally create and initiate the elevator here across the street in the City Hall so that they can have equal opportunities in the roof institution. So what I can talk about can talk about me living it. But if you are so much to say, if you have a great desire to show us how SDP did everything he did, it was bad, and HDZ did everything that worked well, then why did Croatia under HDZ not, for example. Switzerland today. You know why? Because we ended up in the worst sink and the worst recession in 2000 and 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37579	A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37580	Dear President, dear colleague Bernardic. Mr. Borić mentioned the tic toka, you have entered a tic technique here where there is no specific argument, it is time for concreteness, it is no longer a fashion tic, Juventus is in fashion, Manjo is in fashion, in fashion is concrete and argument, so I will finally focus this debate on not talking about the rights of persons with disabilities but on the responsibility of Minister Marić. I ask you all to return to that topic, and I will specifically now ask you all one question here, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and all parliamentary deputies. Is it logical that the finance minister in one regulated country proposes in tax reform to reduce taxation means that the rate of taxation of disproportionate property at the lowest rate that exists in the EU at all is 36%? I'm the only parliamentary representative who warned about it here during the parliamentary debate, my colleague Lalovec remembers me and I asked for the rate to increase because we can't send a message to our citizens who've been bailing. After that fierce reaction, it was changed for the final bill, the rate increased to 52%. But you know what wasn't done, in the previous law, we had a deadline for checking it out by 2005, you know what Minister Maric suggested to reduce to the last six years, and then there's no tax returns from 2005 to 2010. Is it the interest of the Minister of Finance, is it the interest of the Prime Minister, that I also called Minister Marić at the time we spoke on the phone about it, is it not an interest to fill the state register and that the state register is just filling up on those where there is no disproportionate property That's what you're talking about, Mr. Bernardich. Focus. [[Invader Petrov: Time, MP Nikola Grmoja timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37581	Reply to the replica, MP Benardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37582	Well, these are things you can read in an explanation. So he's not here to look at me today he's just as uncomfortable, I'm uncomfortable here because of Mr. Maric I've been seeing for the past few years, but this isn't a person, this is a matter of face and responsibility and principles. And that's what we have to shed light here today, from the factoring law, from tax reform, from the tax system, from the Agrokor balance sheet, from the exemptions in the case of Agrokor to the re-determination, those are the things that put a big spot on this whole process. And that's what I said, and that's what we wrote, and that's what everyone in Croatia is clear about. If it's not clear to anyone, he'll never be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37583	Representative Petar Skoric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37584	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Bernardić, in your opening statement on several occasions you mentioned that you should save Croatia as you have saved it twice so far and you have moralized us here and talked about who destroyed Croatia. I would underline and say here because if there were a party to democratic changes whose successor you are, who voted against Croatia's independence, which has done everything to disarm Croatia, Croatia would never be. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Directors of the 1990s privatized companies while workers were on the battlefields and returning from the battlefields to their jobs ended up at the Employment Office. We can talk about the starting point because we know whose political flock was owned by Ivica Todorovic's father, Ante Todorovic. So we know where the outcome is. However, dear Mr Bernardic, you can climb out of the stained veins, trying to talk about the alleged conflict of interest of the most capable finance minister to date, but this will not help you regain the SDP rating. The SDP today should not be afraid of HDZ because while you are at the head of the SDP, it is the beginning of the end of the second largest party in Croatia. That reminds me of the situation in the '80s when the beloved leader, Comrade Tito, died. When Yugoslavia fell apart, the death of Racan began the SDP and after the departure of Milanovic and the arrival of you to the SDP authorities disappeared from the political scene It's related because here in one way it's trying to create a climate and use the situation for pre-election purposes. [[Accompaniment President: Representative Škorić, I would really ask, this does not in any way refer to the exhibition held by MP Bernardić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37585	Air conditioning? I'd like to ask you to refer to the exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37586	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37587	Before MP Bernardic has the possibility of responding to the replica going to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Jovanovic asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37588	Mr. President, my colleague, Mr. Skoric, injured Article 238, demeaning and insulting the entire Club of Representatives of the SDP. There are no colleagues here now, Opara, so ask him, so 1990 to '92. In this House, only my colleague, Oprah and I, and what you've said is a lie that keeps repeating in the media. The SDP never did what you said, and you can be ashamed. And your party destroyed 400,000 jobs in the '90s and ruined Croatia. And this is today the result of the privatisation organised on the basis of the HDZ model and 200 families.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37589	Thank you. Representative Jovanovic, thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37590	Dear colleague Škoric, so I see you're the only one who's caught on the hook. Who destroyed Croatia and here comes Škorić. So why did you feel called? Is there anything we don't know? Answer my question. Is there anything we don't know, that we don't know, that we need to know? Well, you're the only one who found yourself called on that sentence. Tell us, you have to explain. On the other hand, you must be attacking me because you're optimistic. Otherwise I wouldn't be attacked. But what I must tell you, you have come from Split probably by car, thanks to the Zagreb-Split highway built by Prime Minister Racan, and that should be said loud and clear. 10, 11, 10 years you've been in opposition, you haven't even started your work. You now drove from Split with the highway made by Racan, connected Croatian north and south. It was a historic Croatian project. Why did you find yourself called, I really don't know, I hope you didn't paint the tunnels.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37591	Representative Angelko Strick, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37592	Comrade Bernardiæ, you are in your discussion the instructions of so-called The reasons that you think are enough to launch Minister Maric's shift without giving a single statistical indication that the arguments will be strengthened. You were talking about ex-governments, people without a job, minimum wage, job losses without presenting any single statistical data. 4th was held last Saturday in Varazdin. A trade fair and in conversation with craftsmen, the craftsmen themselves say the most craftsmen have been shut down at the time of the former SDP government and about 10 thousand. And now we can only imagine what number of jobs this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37593	Representative Dragica Roscic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37594	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Comrade Bernardic, do you realize what your duty is today, as leader of the opposition? To prepare for today's debate. When I listen to this debate, it seems to me like a colleague of Maras or a colleague of Peja Grbin, that they are the leaders of the opposition. When we discussed the law passed by systemically important companies, it seemed to me that Mr. Lalovec was the leader of the opposition. So it was your duty today to read, that the disproved what the government wrote in its statement that Mr. Maric did not mean in the conflict of interest, that he was not in charge of the financial reports of Agrokor, that it is not unprivileged, means that he did not illegally raise a loan in the HPB and that there was no delay in the application of the regulations to accommodate Agrokor. If you want to talk about desire, energy efficiency, decentralisation, we can also reason on it clearly and clearly. But today we have prepared for this topic and I ask you to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37595	Representative Bernardić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37596	Dear fellow dear, I see you know very well what the opposition leader should do, so perhaps one day you too will be the leader of the opposition. But what I have to tell you, it seems too much to you, so it seems that Minister Maric is not in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37597	Representative Gordana Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37598	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In your debate, you called HDZ to account. Hardly in the same sentence can go HDZ and responsibility. Because if that were the case, if HDZ had responsibilities, if the prime minister had responsibilities, then last Wednesday wouldn't have been a majority, we have most of them and yesterday Mr. Reiner most of them are irrelevant. So we here have a message from HDZ that it doesn't matter if there is a parliamentary majority in Croatia, the only thing that matters is that HDZ is in power. And that's the message sent by HDZ people, that's the stability that you're talking about, stability in the Croatian Republic, in Kosor, in Dodig, at parties that can fill eleven in Zagreb with their voters. On that stability? I ask you not to put the HDZ sentence and responsibility again, or the word responsibility and HDZ in the same sentence. Because if it had, if it had at least this many responsibilities, then Prime Minister Plenkovic would have done as Prime Minister Racan did. Came in with 76 signatures and showed. When he broke his coalition in 2002, he showed his signatures and went to the new government over and over again. This is plotting, this is instability and this is what Croatia does not need. Croatia does not need petty scheme and buying representatives what is happening at the moment. Croatian citizens' trust needs to be earned Not shopping under the table. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37599	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37600	President-in-Office of the Parliament, what my colleague Maras just said hurt Article 238 If they'd listened, they'd have heard me say 238. [[/Incursion President: Representative Djujic, please! Take it easy. Representative Reiner.]] Yeah, let your colleagues hear it. [[Adversity President: Representative Djujic, by article please repeat that everyone hears.]] 238. In fact, my colleague Maras was talking about a subject that wasn't even here today. And therefore, if we continue this way, and especially by insulting other MPs, I don't know whether their membership fits into one tram or not we won't get far. I think it's below the level we should discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37601	Thank you. I will first warn the HDZ Representatives' Club if it wants to call the SDP club, although I agree with you, that you sit together nicely, agree on exactly what you proposed to the SDP club, which I would also suggest not only the HDZ club. We stick to the SDP club and all parliamentary deputies, but we all have to stick to what you're proposing. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37602	I think it's more than evident here that my colleague Reiner broke Article 238. That's what everyone sees in this assembly because that's exactly what your colleague Reiner is doing, that your government, your majority, is offering no stability, that most of them don't exist, that it's spoiled. The only one I insulted was tram number 11 because it would be half empty, it wouldn't be full. [[Adversity President: Representative Gordan Maras.]] So I'm the only one who's offended the 11th, and I'm the one who apologizes to the 11th. [[/The Incursion President: Representative Gordan Maras I thank you. You cannot use this.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37603	Representative Josip Djakic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37604	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bernardic, in his exposé that you submitted to this House on the replacement of Minister Maric, it is evident that you have not shown any argument that you would really prove that he is in some kind of violation and aversion, especially in the conflict of interest that you tried to say something about. You've again experienced one debacle on the public scene with this submission that you didn't need. Debakl equals the one you experienced the other night on the show on N1 when you did not know how to count the representatives in the Croatian Parliament when the host had to help you. And then after all, when you have no arguments, you want to offer the Croatian public and Croatian voters that you saved Croatia twice. You are certainly not a person, and SDP in particular, you are not and cannot save Croatia because you only knew how to borrow Croatian people for a hundred billion new debts at large interest, 100 thousand of those who had to leave Croatia for your time. If that's what you're thinking of saving, please don't. And don't bother the Croatian public on this political scene with these political pamphlets, but first learn to collect and subtract.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37605	Representative Bernardić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37606	Thank you very much. Fortunately, you will teach me. You had some that didn't even know till five. And what I'm going to tell you about the arguments. So I'll remind you that the minister himself was also the prime minister last year at this time, the prime minister of Karamark's government. So the arguments – an excellent director, he didn't know, a professional mandater – failed. And an expert minister, he's made an exception. So do you need more arguments than that? You're attacking me like I'm running the country because you're aware that the Prime Minister is no longer leading it. And I just have to tell you Croatia can't be happy when, instead of between, Croatia can't be happy when Djikic and Djakic choose Djakic instead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37607	We're moving on. In accordance with Article 125, the Government's representative may give reasons. If the Prime Minister will speak for himself instead of the finance minister, then it can be done to split the time. Does the government's representative want to give an explanation? Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37608	Good afternoon, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, today the topic is another SDP initiative to vote against another already a member of my government. We went through a similar exercise a few months ago. Today, it is on the agenda to try to vote mistrust with Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. In his opening letter, Bernardic explained a certain view of his responsibility, but he did not quote a single single line of written request that you sent to the government, so we are talking about a metric. In the measure of your request there are four points, one alleged zero proven conflict of interest, another giving credit by the HBOR for several companies that are in the Agrokor concert system, the third return to the 2010 event on a loan then a member of the supervisory board of the Croatian Post Office of the State Secretary Maric received and the fourth alusia of not some of the regulations which he allegedly granted to Agrokor, even without stating what regulation that request refers to. Therefore, the Croatian public must know these are three and a half points of demand for a vote of no confidence and this is today the subject of our debate. First, about my colleague Maric. Kola Maric is a man who has received my trust to be Minister of Finance, his colleague Maric has also served as Prime Minister Oreshkovic in the government, was in the government of his colleague, Mr Petrova, who was then Deputy Prime Minister, was in the government a very close and good colleague, it was quite obvious with Minister Dobrović, and with Minister Šprlj, and with Minister Orepić collaborated on all legal texts, making budgets, tax reforming a number of other topics where this co-operation was excellent. Personally, at no time would you have sent an observer to our meetings, coordination, a narrow cabinet and consultation and that you do not know who is who in my government would not know who the HDZ minister is, who is by the way not the party minister Zdravko Maric, and who is the minister of MOST and your three colleagues know very well. And I am now saying this in order to understand both in this house and in political parties and in the Croatian public something called the elementary political alphabet. The elemental political alphabet means that the opposition has its role, its mission, it uses the moment, release the request right before the local elections. Let's see how this government will manage this partnership right now when the local elections are going, and my colleague Petrov and I agreed in September before this government is put together to go to the polls. I think we can manage national government together without a problem, and at a local level where we are closest to the citizens to try to gain confidence independently. And that was the deal I'm holding on to, I'm holding on to today. But the government is not a debate club. The government isn't some association where people find themselves on their own time, they argue a little bit, one says his own attitude, another his attitude, someone like this, someone like that. No, that's what the public needs to know, that's what Croatian citizens need to know. The government is the most executive body and institution of government in the Republic of Croatia. There may be a vote in the government, there may be different views, and there may be a raise of hands, and there have been in this previous government in technical time around some legal solutions, we can even say that about some law of sectoral character. But there are these fundamental past, key issues that come down to trust, loyalty, loyalty, humanity, if you will. You can't sit in the same government and as gladiators in the arena live on television tell a colleague who sits with you every day trying to make Croatia's GDP grow, that the public debt is smaller, that the budget deficit since 2002 is never smaller, that employment is growing, that credit ratings, the prospects are negative to stable to talk to international financial institutions so that he knows what he's talking about and knows what he's up for and that he's priced and respected, and then that same man at the moment, watch out for the moment, is the moment when the government adopts this document here that says the obvious of these four, three and a half points,... about these three and a half points No, no, no, there's no comedy. [[Intruder Petrov: Just keep going and don't make a comedy.]] This is a serious policy and a serious crucial moment for everyone to know what this is all about. So, at the moment when we're reading about the SDP request then at that moment, colleagues in the government ask who's for, who's abstention, who's anti-involved and as in the arena gladiators show their finger down, the man with whom they should go to battle for Croatia's improvement. That's what happened to my dear public, dear colleagues and colleagues. Now, in my government with my political principles, with my integrity without my colleagues, the Grmoys' advice, and remember that well, without anyone's advice, will never happen and will never happen. Why are you nervous? Oh, yes, it is, for four days, you've been flying like wasps, mosquitoes, and maybe flies, oh, yes, yes, you've been stabbing nothing, because you don't have anything to stab. So if you have such a situation and if someone shows such a degree of dishonesty, you knew that if you were against Minister Marić, then the co-operation that it is now is over. And that's the political story that happened at the government's public session Thursday. And that's where I put the dot. And that's where the public needs to see who's who. You know, in a crisis, people get exposed. In a crisis, they show their true face. In the crisis, the political partner we have chosen on the basis of consensus in the party because we respected the ethics of the vote in the 11th 9th, in the crisis, this political partner does not even allow my colleague Maric here to say something to me here against the arguments of the opposition but rather without debate, without the autature et alter pars, publicly in the government, we will not sit here with you anymore. That's not working. At any cost, it's not working. So we have a situation that is very political, however, which is quite simple. All the 3.5 points you've listed and you haven't referred to them, they don't stand. We're going to have a debate today that will turn into a classic amalgan of everything. The model of Croatian economy, the model of privatisation. What I want to say is that as president of the HDZ and as Prime Minister here, I would like to respect all the good wishes of both the SDP and the MOST and the HDZ and other parties as a function of the well-being of the Croatian people and that of a completely clean hand without one single one, without a single stain on which in a space called media political space comes people without arguments, have some dark forces, have some interest groups, have some secret camels that affect something. But no, they don't, they don't exist, they're not there, they might affect someone else, but not me, not me. And the public needs to know today. Zdravko Maric, PhD, worked at the Economic Institute, was assistant finance minister, was secretary of state, was in two government finance ministers. Do you have the impression in the Croatian public that this man has done something wrong or at the expense of Croatian finances, Croatian economies or Croatian ratings? I don't have it and I see it every day. I don't think they did anything wrong in terms of content or coworker Kovačić or colleague Dobrović, or colleagues of Šprlje, or colleagues of Orepić, I could work with them and work with them for 10, 15 years. And I will never say a single word against them, nor against the President of the Parliament of fellow Petrov, nor against any of the representatives of the Most because everything I have done I have done with full conviction of partnership, correctness and the minimal relationship of humanity among colleagues. And that's where I put the dot, that's where I put the dot. There were local elections 21st, there were parliamentary elections tomorrow, I'm ready for them. But in the legal procedure and in the rule of law, the burden of responsibility for mistrust is not on me, it's not on me, it's on those who want to tell him no, we don't want you to be Minister of Finance anymore, so let them find 76 and not be impressed by the names of the new revolutionaries, Mr. Grmoja. What you do will be seen by the people. Your pulsism and your nervous demagogy won't do you any good. That's for sure. And that's why this is the time to expose and keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37609	Representative, thank you to the MPs. Minister Maric, you still have 3.5 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37610	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Vice President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, right at the beginning, despite the dozens of times I stood behind this assembly in front of you, defending a number of laws and budgets never in my wildest dreams thought or imagined that I would stand and have to say this first sentence that I would say, which is that, at first, I want to reject everything that stands in the motion to vote my mistrust, to me as Minister of Finance, as completely missed and unfounded, and that is why the Government was manifested, now and the Prime Minister, and I will personally say something in this short time, and surely, in the course of the debate and through my submissions to the word and replications, will be sufficient. In particular, I reject any thought that in the conduct of public work, by any procedure or action, I have favored or put any private interest ahead of the public. As for the alleged conflict of interest, given the fact that I worked in Agrokor for four years, I hold that this does not mean automatic disqualification for the conduct of certain duties in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and so does the office of Minister of Finance. However, I think working in the private sector has gained an additional valuable experience that has helped me and helped me to understand better and more comprehensively in terms of economic and financial problems. After the appointment of Minister of Finance to me and Agrokora, only concerns the stability of the economic and financial system of the Republic of Croatia. I am not a shareholder or a participant in any of the companies in Agrokor. I don't have a contract with Agrokor that would allow me to return to any part of the concert after the term of office expires. And I'm going to say one more thing, although I believe and hold that it's not crucial, but in view of beyond every level or below every level of human dignity, the insinuations that have been placed on my family over the past weeks and months, none of my family, nor my extended family, are employed by the companies in the Agrokor system. So I don't have any private interest that would tie me to Agrokor concert and that would condition my favor to Agrokor. But starting from the imposed and completely unfounded perceptions of a possible conflict of interest after the entry into office of the finance minister, I repeatedly made clear and publicly communicated that in possible concrete decisions concerning Agrokor, led by a self-exemption culture, I would exclude myself from making decisions precisely because of the fact that I spent some time as their employee, as an employee. I was the executive director of the strategy and the capital market in charge of making macro-economic analyses and projections, representing competition management, operating companies for their medium-term plans and budgets. Presenting the same investors, rating agencies and all potential partners. I received financial reports when they were finished, when they were audited. About the situation in Agrokor over the past year and a few days I've had knowledge of publicly available rating indicators from rating agencies. By January of this year, rating agencies pointed to certain financing problems, i.e. refinancing in Agrokor's commitment. But never before and not even in January of this year when they crashed the credit rating of the Agrokora rating agency did not question Agrokor's liquidity in the next 12 months President-in-Office of the Four-Sents Parliament, I'd like to ask you nicely if you'll excuse me. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Fully clean consciences confirm that I have done all the work dedicatedly, responsibly, and honestly in accordance with my professional, intellectual potential. [[/The President's incursion: here you go.]] I'm proud of everything I've done in my life, all the jobs I've done from student days to this honorable duty of the Minister of Finance. I can accept a critical debate about the results of my work, but I cannot take it lightly to question my professional, human honor and honesty. That is why in the end in front of this honorable House and the entire Croatian public because of myself, and even more because of my family, friends, colleagues and numerous Croatian citizens who support me once again, I reject all unfounded accusations and eat at my expense. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37611	I thank the Minister of Finance. I'd like to ask for order in the assembly. Djujic, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37612	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister Sanader has injured Article 238. He started talking about another subject he didn't get a word for. Namely, in this ten-minute address, the prime minister did not stick to the subject with a single sentence, and the topic is the confidence of Minister Zdravko Maric. He did not dispute any argument to the opposition in any word why Mr. Maric must leave, but rather talked about his relations with the Most. And I think that because the replicas are moving now, that we should direct the debate and that you as president who are still the president for a short time like Mr. Prime Minister is still a short prime minister, you need to direct the discussion in this House to stick to the topic, not to talk about the relations between the Most and HDZ, and we think that, personally, it is enough that the relations of the Most and HDZ are terrorizing Croatian citizens and creating instability in this country. I'm just asking you to hold a session while you have the chance. Here, thank you very much, as you should.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37613	Representative Djujic, I believe that the Prime Minister probably felt that this argument was an argument in this debate with the Most. Ivan Pernar answered. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37614	Dear Mr. Parliament President, MP Djujic has injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure states that by its conduct, it deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. I think he, as a parliamentary representative, should know that the Prime Minister's name is Mr Plenkovic, not Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37615	Thank you. I'd like a representative, please! I'd like to continue. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica. They're following the replicas to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37616	Dear Prime Minister, you said Minister Maric was a good minister, but Mr Plenkovic, I don't know which country you live in. You may not know, Mr Plenkovic, that there are over 330,000 citizens in Croatia with blocked accounts, that Croatia is the only country in the EU where public notebooks carry out enforcement decisions instead of courts. You may not know, Mr Maric, that the debt of the Republic of Croatia is invaluable and that in this year alone, Minister Maric intends to raise 45 billion kunas of new loans. Where's that coming from? Who's gonna pay it back? That system you're defending, Mr. Plenkovic, is unsustainable. The milkman, Ivan Haxhasia, who you pushed into your government's loans earlier blew himself up with a bomb, Mr. Plenkovic. Marian Budden from the Council also hung himself for credit in the Sesvets. Every once in a while, people kill themselves for credit. You told Mr. Plenkovic that you would protect the only home from execution. That was your promise, that was your credibility. Instead, we witness suicides and conjectures. It's a credible HDZ policy. You may be ashamed that you have no face and honor and that you are here as some successful prime minister, and you lead 100 percent of the Croatian people into disappearance. And not just in Croatia. The same policy of destruction of HDZ is being implemented in neighbouring BiH. And there HDZ destroys the Croatian people. The only thing that matters for employment in your HDZ Croatia is membership in HDZ, Mr Plenkovic. Whoever isn't in HDZ has no place of work and has to move out. You may be ashamed. [[Applause.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37617	Thank you. Replication response, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37618	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar, I don't know how much you've been involved with the subject that's here today. It's about the Minister of Finance's trust. Everything he does in his tasks of fiscal consolidation, the stability of our financial system, the improvement of macroeconomic indicators, the creation of an economic climate, the financial atmosphere that will result in a reduction of interest among other things. Well, that's the prerequisite for political stability and economic growth we have. Look at the GDP, look at the employment rates, look at the reduction in unemployment rates, look at the indicators. All the macro trends, I don't have to tell you myself, you have this on the website about EUROSTAT's methodology are positive, are favourable. Maybe it's not just the work of the Minister of Finance, the Government, maybe it's the Croatian economy, maybe it's the manufacturer, maybe it's the exporter, and maybe it's the overall perception that the direction we're going is good. That the direction in which those who are watching us with a rather extensive dioptria, which is important to us and measures the apothecary scale, might work well. If it doesn't work well for you, and if you have to say something against HDZ all the time and every time, this time I'm hearing about HDZ in BiH for the first time, it's no longer an argument, it's a fixation, it's this continuous pulsism, a continuous demagogy where you build your political space. You can do it, advanced technology allows you to do it, but at the end of the day People see the difference. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] People see the difference, Mr. Pernar, keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37619	The Prime Minister is out of time. Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37620	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, a little well-intentioned advice to the Prime Minister not to be fooled by clapping on the other side, they also clapped on Karamark, and he knows himself that Karamarko was not a skilled speaker. Secondly, which I absolutely agree with, the crisis is a time to show the public who is and what and how he offers. The Croatian public expects you to now say which 76 MPs support you as prime minister of the Republic of Croatia. Tell me, don't fool around. Say and name those 76, you don't have to name names, give the club representatives just tell us which one you have most of them. It is a responsibility to the Croatian public, to Croatian citizens. And it's not with a smile so easy to remove, if you had responsibilities I'd say I have a majority and they're those people. Tell us the names, show me the numbers, show me the numbers, that's what we want to hear here and that's what the Croatian public expects of you. Stability, security because the state is there for stability and security. It's not about you being prime minister, I don't know if you understand. Our citizens want security and stability, not this kind of tension and uncertainty and simmering. Do we need the Prime Minister to propose representatives to the Croatian Parliament yesterday to support him? Does Croatia need or does Croatia need political security and stability and citizens' trust? I could show you this politically, that's the way Andrei behaves, show us the numbers and tell us who supports you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37621	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37622	I think now that your Twitter, facebook and other social media engagements will rename you to Jerry Maquire, nor Cuba Gooding Jr. mentions so many times show me the money, show me the numbers. Well, you see, there's no substitute for fellow Maras, I'm a lawyer. I know the Constitution, I know the Rules of Procedure, I know the laws you show me the numbers, come on. It's in your interest... No, I don't care what you want. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Maras, you show me the numbers, topic today whether you have 76 against the Minister of Finance. I see that the opposition is good for you, you're slang, you look nice, you're funny, you're cute, you quote movies that's all good, but you answer my question, do you have the numbers because of the initiative you started, which you should be in a position to have so many people raise your hands and say we were wrong. You show me the numbers, come on, let's see, let's get them up. You will, you won't, you won't. When my theme comes to order she'll come whenever I want, then we'll show the numbers. And the question is, is that in your interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37623	A representative of Maras's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37624	Thank you very much. Article 238 of the Prime Minister Plenkovic has been injured, all sorts of things. Mr. President, can I get a word out of these original HDZs?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37625	Here we are waiting for the HDZ club to calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37626	'Cause they're jumping up there like little children, look at them. Are you having fun, Djakic? Yeah, yeah, it's funny. The Prime Minister doesn't have most of you laughing. You don't care. It's fun. We don't need them in the election. We don't need anything. We'll rule until we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37627	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37628	In 238, the injured article means the prime minister mentioned some of the issues related to movies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37629	Excuse me, HDZ Representatives' Club, I'd really like to ask the MPs to concentrate on the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37630	The Prime Minister quoted some... of the films that I can accept to be in favor of the opposition, when I have such bad authority, it can't be good for me. But every compliment I won't accept but... On the other hand, Andrew doesn't care for you, you were much more likable in the opposition. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37631	Thank you. You can't represent Maras, you can't use no... /The speakers speak at the same time./... thank you very much. You can't use... Agent Maras, I had to turn it off. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I would also ask MPs Maras and all other MPs not to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure for Replication, replicate when you have the opportunity. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37632	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister. You were talking about personal integrity, morality, that stability is a priority, after all, you got citizens' trust under the slogan "Reliable". And that's what tickled me to ask you next, how credible this is and how many of the MPs here have déjà vu. Namely, I will quote to you the report from the General Assembly of the HDZ on 28 May 2016, which says: "A representative in the European Parliament, Andrej Plenkovic, told today from the HDZ General Assembly that the party cannot be held hostage to the political fate of any member. I quote: "I don't want to go into the measure of the case we've been talking about lately but it is open to say that the current political crisis in the government and the upcoming vote in the Parliament on trust and the first vice president of the government and the president of the HDZ are a bad signal from the government and for the party," Plenkovic said in a debate at the parliament. He stressed that party loyalty should be preserved and that the whole case should be enlightened by the competent authorities. He reiterates working statements that the stability of the government and parties are most important, that the ambitions of each individual must be in another plan. I quote: "Modern politicians are expected to meet the highest standards and transparency and accountability of integrity, which is a prerequisite for credible political action," the end of the quote said. It is on the party, noting that it analyses political connotations and situations. And again, I underline this, "I don't think the party can be the hostage of any member's political destiny," Plenkovic said and warned that even if the circumstances could remind the HDZ of events a few years ago would certainly be harmful and reflect future elections. Do I only have déjà vu, Mr. Plenkovic, or is it yours again, but the whole state hostage of one man no matter how professional he is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37633	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37634	How good to hear this when the young international secretary of the SDP so carefully quotes my speech at the HDZ meeting. It can serve you as a political inspiration. I'm glad you're studying it that way. You see, unlike your colleague, who I don't know exactly what his last name is, sits half a foot from you, you quote everything, you know what the Prime Minister's name is, you even know what it's called in the European Parliament. And that's good, so you're informing yourself, that you're looking for arguments, that you go to the details. I sign all of that, my dear colleague, all of it, until the last. But also in this situation that is not comparable to last year's situation, it's not even comparable... No, it's not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This situation is not comparable because my colleague Maric received my trust in what we discussed very closely and very thoroughly about everything that you put together on three pages without even stating what regulations you mean, without stating in the first point about the conflict of interest which is proof that his colleague Maric, who worked in the company today, is in some particular conflict of interest. Do you know that between 2012 and 2014, in the same procedure of credit committees, administrations, supervisory boards and your ministers gave consent to the loans to Agrokor companies? As those who voted in this vote, including colleagues from the MOST, agreed under points 2. So, dear fellow, I'm glad you're studying what I said last year, and I'm behind everything I said. I stand behind what I said today and stand behind the integrity of fellow Maric, his expertise and his work. And that's why I'm here, and that's why I'm defending him because you didn't give me any evidence that would convince me otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37635	Thank you. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37636	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Plenkovic, you're introduced, quite insolently saying that this is the second exercise that the SPD is doing here with the recalls of your ministers. So it's not any exercise, it's a responsible job that the responsible opposition has to do. Responsible opposition, and the SDP is a responsible opposition, will support any good proposal that comes from the ranks of your government but will also point to all potential problems that reduce the stability of the government and prevent the greater quality of life of our citizens, which is the job of your government. Unfortunately, at these times, you are making Croatia the most unstable. So your predecessors, Sanader, Jadranka Kosor, have always used this Assembly as a voting machine. So all that mattered was the argument of strength, the number of hands. The strength of the argument was never valid, it was never heard coming from the ranks of the opposition, the proposals of the opposition were not respected. And while we pointed out to you the problem of a plagiarizer who has reversed Croatian science, the reform has been stopped and made it impossible to develop an education that would ensure a greater quality of life in Croatia, you also did not respect the power of our arguments. But then you had an argument of strength, the number of hands that provided for that minister to remain. You are today making the instability of Croatian society trying to convince us that you can rule Croatia even though you no longer have a majority. So, Mr. Plenkovic, you no longer have 76 hands. You're down. Your government practically doesn't exist anymore. And what you're doing, is there a difference between what you did yesterday and what makes my colleague Zeljko Sabo go to jail?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37637	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37638	What was I doing yesterday to get me to jail? What do you mean? ... And what, say it specifically? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37639	I don't want you to, the Prime Minister has the right to replicate for two minutes, please, say what you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37640	Look, this is Parliament, you have immunity, you can say whatever you want. But the esteemed and esteemed representative Jovanovic, you tell me everything you did yesterday is the same as your colleague Sabo, which is why he ended up in prison. And that's not how it works. If you have any argument that would point you to something that I did anything illegal that could lead to me ending up in prison, here I invite you here in front of the public, the Croatian Parliament to say it. If you have nothing to say, and as far as I know, the two of us didn't even see each other yesterday, were you in my room, were you with me for coffee, were you in my office? If you have something to say to me, say it. You can't go as a politician elected from the people to the public and say everything you did yesterday doesn't work for you now you could end up in jail, i.e. Yeah. You can't say that. You can't say that. You have no right to say that, because you have no argument, and I know what I've been doing. My colleague Jovanovic, I certainly didn't do anything that could be illegal in my mind. And that's not good and you can't do that. When I said practice, I didn't mean anything dirty, but I repeat to you one more time what you know very well. To vote non-confidential to any member of the government on anyone who initiates this initiative is a burden of proof. From the substance evidence you've shown zero, and from the numbering evidence you'll see when it's voted. That's it. And don't accuse me of something you don't even have a gram of arguments because it hurts you and even my opinion of you. I would never expect you to say such a thing and so easy, so easy. Don't do this! It's not good for you or for the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37641	Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37642	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, you said you liked to talk about the metrics, that you liked to talk about professional matters. Well, here, we can talk a little about democracy. In fact, democracy is a system that implies that someone has 50% plus one vote so that they can put together a government. The moment you kicked the MOST out of the government, three ministers, four of you were supposed to come to the Parliament and renew your government's confirmation, because it became clear that you no longer have it. Mr Plenkovic, you received 36% of the Croatian people's votes in the elections, and you do not have 76 hands in the House. The elemental decency and seriousness of a prime minister would mean at that point, so if you showed the public, you would prove that you have these 76 hands. You haven't done it until today, and you can turn your head on me and sigh as much as you want, but you're a usurper. And she won your party in the 40,000 vote more than the SDP. The SDP got 34%. With what right are you prime minister now, and that's not someone from the SDP. They don't have 76 hands either. So, Mr Plenkovic is asking for Mr Petrov to move because he doesn't have a majority in Parliament, and you don't move at the same time and you don't have a majority in Parliament either. Prove first of all that you have a majority, and then after that talk about Mr. Petrov, Mr. Maras, Maric, Pernar, Bunjec, whoever you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37643	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37644	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, did you say anything about today's debate? I don't think so. I don't need Mr. Bunjac to teach me the principles of democracy or procedure, I don't need any. The one who set out to destabilise the government is the one who raised his hand against fellow Maric not me, there is no replacement thesis. There is no substitute for the thesis, Mr. Bunjac, and there is no substitute for the thesis in the Croatian public. Consistency, correctness in partnership. Here are the three legislative proposals the government made after certain points went to the agenda. Law on archival construction and archives, Law on CNB, Law on HRT. Is there one guarantee that was in the space of the agreement between the two partners without HDZ having realised it? Is there one deal that HDZ hasn't realized it? Is there any move that would be considered a foul in a sports dictionary in an attack? There isn't. And you, Mr. Bunting, are telling me today that I'm showing something. No, no. Today is the day when if you think so, others who want to show that they do not want the finance minister in this government to be Mr. Zdravko Maric to show it. Today's the day. And today that burden of responsibility is on you if you think so and show it. Here's my show the numbers, says Mr. Maras. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37645	Representative Tomislav Klaric asked for a replica. Excuse me. Mato Frankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37646	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, how constantly someone has a deja vu today would be good to remember a statement that was not so long ago. "I think it's a good thing for Croatia and the spread of Croatian production. We will all benefit from that," Mercator Agrokor said about the sale three years ago, exactly 26.62014. Dear Prime Minister, whether the decision was good or not today at the time when your government, our government should be saving the Croatian economy in the biggest crisis so far. The reason why Mr. Milanovic thought only three years ago that the decision to take Mercator was good may lie in the fact that just ten years ago, his brother was working in Agrokor. This was accidentally forgotten by colleagues from the SDP today. Because as you said, it's time to expose Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37647	Representative Ivan Vrdoljak reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37648	Thank you very much, President. Prime Minister, Vice President, Minister. So today we are not going to discuss neither the investigative committees nor the past of fellow Maric, I really don't know him personally and I don't know his historical work. I can read the résumé and we won't think like others we know everything, we don't know. Whether some today will try, even personally discredit Minister Maric himself, neither is that our goal nor did we vote for him when he entered the government for the first time, nor did we vote for him when he entered the government the second time, nor are we surprised today, nor will we be surprised if there are people who will vote for him today, as the President of the Parliament has voted twice for the same man. But the same attitude we had a year and a half or two ago, so half a year ago, we're taking over today, and that's two very specific reasons, so we're not going into some kind of... radio, aunt, total chaos of debate, two particular reasons. 26.1. After the fall of the rating, Minister Maric calmed the Croatian public with a statement, there is no risk I am aware of the situation because I worked there, the company is in good shape and will not come to a crisis. It's a complete failure because it's 25.1. Moodys knocked down the ratings, the complete failure of a man who really didn't, it's not the difference in weather forecast whether it was semi-cloud or sunny, it was a tornado coming, and then we all needed to get our heads together and then I called to meet up and talk about it, but there was no echo. And an even worse procedure is to exclude yourself from the decision-making moment when we need a determined finance minister. And secondly, the loan he received from the HPB according to all the regulations, I respect it, but it is a political burden, something similar to what the president of the Parliament tried to get one preferential loan from APN for his brother and sister-in-law and it is a political responsibility enough to leave both.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37649	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37650	As far as these loans are concerned, as I understand them, it is legal loans, in accordance with the regulations at the time when fellow Maric was very, very far away from his duties today. We talked about this, this information is in his property card, so he was equally an obstacle in January 2016 and October 2016 and I don't see any correlation between a subject called Agrokor and that quote in the request of a number of opposition MPs for his mistrust. So it was all legal. The other thing you said in the end, I wouldn't comment. But back on January 26th, Minister Maric said at the first indication, which at that time says one of Moody's credit agencies and a statement on Agrokor. His statements at that time are based on the data he has on the Moodys report and the evidence of Agrokor. All of our communication that came from the government in full consultations with our partner MOST and with the President of the Parliament and ministers was agreed to be calm, peaceful, not to generate panic. The time was used to find the only possible legal solution behind which all the relevant stops that enabled the company's fresh liquidity enabled salaries to be paid to employees, the payment of suppliers, the payment of the OPG, turned through an extraordinary management restructuring process with the most reputed advisory house and, most importantly, a thorough audit of financial reports. And if it is in them something that's wrong that's going to ask for responsibility. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37651	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37652	And that's all that's important about Agrodor right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37653	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37654	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, are you, as prime minister, familiar in the first month or 12 months with the situation in Agrokor? Have they met all the ministers who gave you confidence when Minister Maric, whom I respect as an expert, and this is an even more difficult circumstance for not warning you, all the ministers, and he has deceived you about what he did not warn you about the situation in Agrokor. At the 12th month 300 million kunas went into the wind. He's an expert, but I'm curious as to how it's possible that we have in the most difficult financial crisis of people who are exempt, the financial crisis and the economic exception are made from making decisions? It's like there's a war, and if the general says I don't want to take part in that battle and after the war, continue the battle. He must be the finance minister, as an ordinary man, guaranteeing financial stability. Governor Vujčić said since 2012, everyone knows everything. Well, he knows every man, every man that the finance minister worked in Agrokor on high duties, not taking it for... but he had to know, he had to know with his abilities as one of the most professional people in Croatia. If he doesn't know, who could know? He didn't inform those of us who supported him, I didn't vote for the budget for the other reasons that you have support to you, too. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] You are not God on earth, and you are not Pharaoh, and we have raised our hand for you, Mr. Prime Minister, and in this way you could not behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37655	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37656	Comrade Bull, you say everyone knew everything. How do you know now the internal data of any private-owned company, how do you know that what is publicly available is correct? No, I'm asking you. You're a parliamentary representative, I can tell you slowly, you're a parliamentary representative as you know it, how can you know that if you don't get some paper on the table, credible, verified, checked, determined everything that's what it says there. I've worked very, very long to check what comes to my desk, what people tell me, what I share from the towers, insinuation, some coffee comments and what are facts. And I first base my decisions on anything in life on very precise facts, on very precise facts. In 12 months, you are alluding to the HBOR decision and to lend credit in the planned programme and to the Bank for Exports for four companies in the Agrokora system whose numbers, whose data, whose rating if you want to meet all the criteria for them to receive these loans. For such a decision, the decision was voted by counterpart Dobrović along with other ministers. Do you think, do you, excuse me, do you think that as a fellow Dobrović as an extremely healthy man, a university professor, an extraordinary man, that he would raise his hand for something and that at that moment on the table in front of him, there would be documentation that would say otherwise? I don't think so. Do you think he would or wouldn't? Answer me that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37657	Time's up. Thank you. A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37658	Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, without the support of the parliamentary majority, I see you're very nervous, you've directed your exposure to the MOST, to me personally, about how we stab like wasps, we obviously make a good guess. But you thought you'd talk about loyalty, you thought you'd profit and you missed the field completely, you went out on the wrong ground. I didn't want to deal with loyalty, humanity, or anything else in today's debate. But I would remind you of this, Minister Maric in the past government played the trust of Tihomir Oreshkovic, the prime minister who gave him full support to all people, I did not then sit here, who supported the government in which he was a minister and gave him support and tried to draw up a majority with Tomislav Karamark. Do you think he asked us? Do you think he's told people what you think about it? How about I take down the prime minister who gave me the full trust I've been working with. You're talking about the loyalty of the Minister of Most. You say that by voting against the government's collapse, but it could have been done to the prime minister without the support of the parliamentary majority in a different way. You could have told us if it was so that it would happen. You didn't have to tell the government bus like that to make you look like some kind of leader, to let the media, to write you that we finally got a new Sanader, you could have done it in a nicer way, in a more human way when we're talking about loyalty. And no matter what those beautiful flossules coming out of your mouth you didn't answer my question about the disproportionate property.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37659	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37660	So you're talking about your question about a disproportionate property you didn't refer to me, but you're replicating your colleagues, Bernardic? ... That's what you'll ask him when he speaks. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37661	I would ask you to stop the replicas and replication between, the Prime Minister has the right to speak for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37662	So as far as the loyalty that you are talking about and about correctness, my colleague Petrov and I talked about, it was quite clear if there was a decision by MOST that unlike the solution that we found together when the situation with counterpart Barisic raised his hand along with the opposition that the co-operation so far as it is could not go further because it was for me the previous question, it is for me the previous question. It's a decision you've made and there's no colleague of the Grmoi replacing the thesis. First, the government didn't fall, it's number one. Secondly, slowly, secondly, the one who started the process of destabilisation and functioning of the government certainly wasn't me, but those who made the political decision that they were willing to work with, which they may have asked for some understanding of some of their programmes, some of their laws, some of their policies were ready publicly on television without having to do so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's the key. It's a spark, it's a moment, it's a trigger. And I will now tell you something from my colleague Grumoja and all the representatives of MOST, if my colleague Marić was MOST's representative or the MOST's minister, I would equally heartily defend him, equally heartily and with equal arguments, and I'm not sure that you would do it for him or... And there's that difference. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37663	Time's up. A representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37664	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, I see that you are in a little bit of stress, which is normal and logical, but let's say that you become a statesman should actually know the difference between your minister's subjective and objective responsibility. I'm going to be very clear, so that's an important difference. Why are we calling off Mr. Maric? Five is the important thing. The amendment of the Accounting Act and the abolition of the final plan with application 1.1.2017, I will read your argument, says it explicitly states that the purpose of the amendment and the addition is to particularly reduce business costs for entrepreneurs in vertically integrated management systems. There aren't many in Croatia. Two, again I say you're making a difference between objective and subjective responsibility. Number two, approved credit to Agrokor. Of course, we're going to be subjectively exclusive, but where's your objective responsibility? Prolongation of the factoring law, prolongation of the application of unpaid claims forms again for a year. Just facts. And, of course, recklessness, I'm not going to tell a lie that Agrokora is all right. So it's all been happening in the last four months. Mr. Prime Minister, you were now defending your minister that by law everything was when he took credit in the postal bank of Croatia. Do you know where the then director of the Croatian Post Office ended up? In Agrokor. You know the company that is? Multiplescard. It means another argument. And you know who was so defensive and who was so defensive in history that it was legal in order in '45. And '46. SS at trial. It's your principled responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37665	Replication response. I'd like to beg!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37666	So I have to admit that for a member of the government at whose time the regulation with the legal force extends the deadlines of the factoring law, counterpart Hajdas Doncic Parliament is meeting. You're making a regulation with a legal force. As a lawyer, it wouldn't occur to me to make regulations with legal force while the Parliament is sitting, alive and well, and you've been doing it like it's normal, like it's a routine procedure. You can't do that. This is the last thing you said, so are you in your right mind? I'm very private. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Are you self-obsessed?]] You are alluding counterpart Hajdas Doncic to the situation of whether someone as State Secretary in 2010 in a situation completely unrelated to today's debate received a legal loan with a comparison, listen, with a comparison of '45. And '46. About SS [[The Incursion President: Representative Hajdash Doncic.]] Wait, but how many creations in your thinking do you need to say something like that? [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: That's how they defended themselves.]] Now I have to ask myself what's going on with you guys? You're doing this for me? [[I'm doing it for you!]] [[I will, I warn you. Don't go into replicas, I'll have to make a warning.]] So don't be so generous. I would recommend to you for your sake, for your sake, Comrade Hajdas Doncic, you were Minister of Government, you were Mayor of Krapina-Zagorian County not to say such a thing. If you're going to go to the election again, don't say it. It's not good for you. I strongly advise you. Watch out for any arguments you use and what comparisons you make. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] That's not good. It's not healthy for democracy. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37667	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37668	... Last time you said that, [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[/Intruder President: Can you just say what is concrete. Excuse me, Representative Hajdash-Doncic. Please!]] 238th I said. [[Accompaniment President: Representative Hajdas Doncic, representative of Hajdas Doncic, you did not specify correctly.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37669	That is true, but you did not specify exactly what was wrong in Article 238. Thank you. We're moving on. Agent Reiner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37670	Dear President of the Parliament, I expected you to react while your colleague Doncic spoke. You didn't do it. You don't have to, I see you're not responding, you're very selectively responding, probably because of your current position. However, you had to warn your colleague Doncic about what he said, because we haven't heard anything like this in a really long time. Well, to compare someone to the SS, etc. and especially the Prime Minister. It's your failure. You had to warn him that he couldn't speak like that in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37671	Thank you. Representative Marko Vesligaj answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37672	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister, I will agree with you that the minister is an expert. But of course as Minister you know it well he is also a politician, and as such he bears responsibility, responsibility for the political decisions that I believe we will all agree should lead to a better and better life for all of our citizens. However, I think the current finance minister with his ties to Agrokora has crossed a line with his former employment that simply doesn't exist. I believe that is what most MPs in this Croatian Parliament know. The citizens know that, and I believe you know that in the end, too, but you won't admit it to yourself yet. Look, I haven't supported this government's policy since the beginning, nor have I supported the minister. We also had discussions here on tax reform which, unfortunately, favored the richest, tax reforms through which local units lost more than a billion kuna, tax reform where you, as HDZ's majority, supported that MOST proposal to abolish that company tax and still lost local self-government without compensatory measures in that part. At least I have to, I'm going to commend in that part of the minister that a promise has been kept for at least a part of the compensation measures. However, local units have lost funds precisely because we now have economic growth. The state is increasingly centralized because of this despite your promise to decentralisation the state. I won't support you either, nor in the policy that will soon follow, which is to abolish and set up tax administrations in smaller areas. These are all the political decisions you, as most of you, have the right to make, and we, as an opposition, will not, of course, support them. But this thing with Agrokora and this case Unfortunately, it is a line that has been crossed and a line on which Mr. Maric, unfortunately, cannot be a minister. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37673	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37674	Thank you very much. Your Honor, counsel. I still didn't realize from your presentation what it was... which is offside, which draws, what did my colleague Maric do wrong? What he was doing, making his bread, what they said in a private company if he was a doctor of science, if he works at the Economic Institute if he was an assistant minister, the secretary of state, and maybe he could contribute something to us. Is that a crime scene? Or here's a colleague, Klisovic, is here behind you and he worked at the state administration, he was a prominent diplomat, he was head of the Office of President of the Republic of Grabar Kitarovic when she was foreign minister and then, at one point, he worked part of his career in a private company. I, I think that's good, I think it's very useful and would tomorrow be in some hypothetical case if he came into a position to be a minister one of us should say, and Priory he's guilty. The man worked there, he certainly knows everything, he certainly knows everything today that's going on somewhere he doesn't work, and he works as a finance minister. So, these more difficult and so easy to conclude that someone is guilty of something, and none of you are in front of the Croatian Parliament, gave no concrete tangible evidence that there is some responsibility of Minister Marić, and you are talking about some conflict of interest. I have carefully read your initiative several times, and I have not found in it a minimum of elements that could convince me that your initiative is supported by evidence. That's what this story is all about. And that's why I call this story an exercise, and you have the right to do it,.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37675	Thank you. Representative Marko Sladolev reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37676	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Prime Minister. I will repeat the question from Nikola Grumoja since you have not answered his question about Mr. Maric's loyalty and humanity towards Mr. Tim Oreshkovic. So I was there a year ago when Mr. Tim Oreshkovic was thrown out with all kinds of attacks. Mr. Tim Oreshkovic chose Mr. Maric as minister among several ministers, so he had more suggestions and Mr. Oreshkovic chose him precisely after Mr. Maric turned his back on him, voted against him in the government, listened to the insults that Mr. Oreshkovic was experiencing there and then offered himself as a non-party prime minister. So was that a loyal human being just asking for an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37677	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37678	A colleague of Sladolev, I have a very good opinion on Tim Oreskovic, we spoke several times before the handover of the authorities and during the handover of the authorities and several times afterwards. I absolutely believe that in those and in such political circumstances as they were after the November 2015 elections, man made a rare move. The move worth respecting not only as an expert but as a move worth the respect of all Croats outside the country, all people who have proved themselves in professional career terms by building their business, career, life path in circumstances where the filters of the competition in the corporate world are very thin. And only rarely manage to reach the positions he was in and he expressed his willingness to come with his knowledge, help solve a political collapse at that time and agree to be Croatian Prime Minister. What later happened to him during that term must have been something he neither knew nor expected nor could have expected. And I think in time we'll realize that his efforts were positive. To get out of my optics today in the relations that existed in the then government in terms of trust and mistrust between the then HDZ leadership, then Prime Minister Oreshkovic, then a partner in the MOST government, is not the subject of my interest. The point of my interest is the relationship of trust that I as Prime Minister have with my ministers, with my colleagues, with my partners, and I lead them on the basis of basic principles, and that's all and that's it. What matters and why I stand behind my fellow Maric today. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37679	Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37680	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. So what I've noticed and what you've pointed out, you've defended your minister a lot here to say it heartily, and it's only in itself understandable and okay. You may have used words that are a little too heavy, you were talking about gladiators in the arena who enjoy the inaccessibility and immorality of colleagues in the government who were supposed to show themselves more and should have shown more humanity and then you added, that it's not good to talk about the privatisation model here. But you know what makes us and what makes me still talk about the privatisation model? Well, it's Agrokor. We wouldn't be here today talking about Minister Maric if everything was okay, but in this country, it's not all good. What people often say, I believe that you've experienced it, and people are the most disturbed that institutions don't do their jobs, and above all I think about the judiciary. Look how long our disputes last, look at Prime Minister Sanader's trial. I'm not saying you're responsible, but people don't believe in institutions. Citizens live in a difficult situation, because of their small debt, they are being taken away from their property, and here I am now going to tell you exactly what bothers me with Minister Marić, whom I think I agree with you, an extremely capable man, belongs to that generation together with Boris Lalovec, let's say in some new generation of politicians, what bothers me. Minister Orepic was removed and Minister of Police and Minister of Justice Sprlje, we have a criminal statement from Mr Petrov against Mr Ivica Todorovic. Minister Maric said in time that there is no more serious tax debt for Agrokor. After the first private company released the blockade, the tax administration suddenly launched a blockade. Now I'm worried, are the changed ministers actually being replaced by the fact that someone really doesn't get into Agrokor and see what's going on there? Here's my particular question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37681	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37682	Thank you, President of the Parliament. They're not, they're not being replaced because of it, and it has to be clear to everyone. So this one thesis that is, here we go now to the main topic of a political debate that lasts for the last four days. Do me and my government protect crime in Agrokor? Do you think anyone in the Croatian public thinks that I personally, members of my government, anyone who has and a grain of political salt would put themselves in a position to protect some crime? Do Minister Orepic, Minister of Sprlje, Parliament Speaker Petrov have the right to his political position? I can express my suspicion, I can say I need to process something, I can, I have the right, as politicians, as citizens, as party members. But there is a fine shade, a subtle feeling of what you do as a citizen and what you do when you act as an important duty in the state. It is a fine, subtle shade in which I distinguish between the standards of the Croatian rule of law in 2017 and the tasks of the police, the DORH, the USKOK, all those who need to investigate all irregularities under their official duty, process those who are responsible and the courts will decide who is responsible. We're not in the Wild West, we're not in a country where the Priory condemns someone, in which someone's scalp is sought, I don't agree to that, to this kind of discourse in public space I don't agree to. And surely the decision that they are no longer ministers has nothing to do with taxes, tax oversight or investigations, on the contrary, I want them to be investigated until the end. But without insinuating with political... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37683	Representative Ines Strenja-Linić answered the line. Agent Pernar, come in. We're moving on with our work. Representative Ines Strenja-Linić asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37685	My replica was sent to Mr. Prime Minister, so I guess someone will pass it on to him. But first, I'd like to say something to Mr. Maric. I like you very much, but the truth is a lot more to me right now, which is it. Well, here he is, and Mr. Prime Minister will hear. So, Mr. Prime Minister, so you're talking about loyalty but here's the question of who to be loyal to? Whether to be loyal to the one who was aware of everything that was going on and what should have been known about Agrokor because it is also the fact that we will actually hear today, and we have not heard them yet. I don't know why the debate went so broadly about everything, about our childhood, about war and everything, and we didn't talk about legislative bargaining for certain companies, which is all evidence of concrete insight into the concrete changes in the legal proposals and regulations that Mr. Maric was in charge of, about selective competence and hiding certain data that should have been known to be hidden. And you're talking about stability, whether it's stability when we talk about how to cover up the malfeasances that were in Agrokor or you talk about stability, about thieving and moving young people, etc. from this country. It is that Mr. Maric not only said Mr. Vrdoljak in the 1st month and 15.3. said no phenomenal forms that would indicate some extraordinary situation, etc. The biggest earthquake from that resignation we heard when Sanader read to us when he was leaving as prime minister. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] So Mr. Maric Okay. [[Intruder Petrov: Time's up.]] So despite the fact that it was Agrokor Maric completely misjudged the situation in Agrokor and not only from the 1st month and from the 12th since he assured It's all right, it's all right now. So how can you actually... /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37686	Representatives of STRENJA-Linić. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37687	... Mrs. Strenja-Linić, so let's go distinguish a few topics. [[Specially enabled.]] The first one is the one that's constantly going through and alluding to the protection of something illegal, so there's no such thing. No one in the Government, no one in the Croatian Parliament, no one in any Croatian institution, not in their own sense, nor in any confusion, can stand behind the policy of concealing anything illegal or give God the protection of any crime. I'm the last one to do something like that, and I assure you, I wouldn't let anyone do it. So that thesis is untrue, incorrectly fabricated, and it drags on to get some kind of impression. That impression must not be gained because there is no reason for it because no one does. Croatian police, the Croatian State's Attorney's Office, investigators have all the freedom and independence in their work and there's a point and they'll do it, whether it's what some prime minister wanted, whether it's what some opposition leader wanted, whether it's a parliamentary representative or anyone else, we won't influence it, we can't. And I guarantee you Croatian institutions will function legally. As for Minister Marić, therefore, I explained in a previous replica of the situation since January, our agreement, political agreement and rhetoric, and this was known by your party president and the president of the Croatian Parliament that in public communication when there were more indications where the situation came from in the company, none of us at the smallest moment, let alone the public. Well, that's rule number one, so you're not gonna make yourself an earthquake in the house, you're gonna use time to find a solution. And we found him respected representatives of Strenja-Linić MOST and HDZ together, together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37688	Time. Thank you. Before it continues with the replicas, since you said something in my account I only have to say that the statement spoken of by Ines Strenja-Linić was made before we set out to solve the situation in Agrokor. Representative Davor Vlaovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37689	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister. In your presentation, you used two words that stretched out and responded to this assembly room, which is responsibility and burden. Who's the responsibility? Well, the Parliament has legislative responsibility, the government and the ministers are executives, which means law enforcement, process management and process control. Whether it was process management and process control, unfortunately we were told by foreign institutions that it wasn't. How is it possible only after warning foreign credit rating agencies and other financial institutions to find out that Agrokor's financial reports have been finned, as possible, I have already asked you, that the bonds without coverage in goods and money have been issued, have you not told me how many, on which they amounted to even the deadlines of the same. I ask you on behalf of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, farmers, whether in the last two years there have been controls in Agrokor companies in the Agrokora system there have been inspection, tax control, and we see that the elements for it have been known that our craftsmen are daily burdened with various inspections of controls and that if a hundred kunas of debt to the state occur immediately the system intervenes. Why didn't he react here? Who's responsible? And the one who was supposed to control and carry out these processes and control them. Is it legal to do business, and you asked who the burden was on? Well, first of all, the burden on the government is that we have a stable state and that citizens have confidence in this government and in the state and in the institutions of the state. But unfortunately, this time the burden will be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, young people from Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem. And unfortunately, again, I see nothing of the Slavonia project, none of the new jobs because you've put everything at risk with this government crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37690	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37691	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vlaović. A colleague from HSS here are several elements and several arguments. First, Agrokor as the largest Croatian company falls under treatment when it comes to the Tax Administration of those companies called large taxpayers. I am no expert in the work of the IRS, but what I am informed is that the interaction between the IRS officers of that department with a company like Agrokor and others is practically on a daily basis because only in such a way and through such intensive communication can the law be respected and all the obligations of that society as a taxpayer can be respected. As it was in the details of today, so let's go back years, it's very difficult for me to know, nor is it my responsibility. What is the responsibility of the Government and which we have shown in the case of the Emergency Administration Act in trade societies of strategic importance, I repeat once again, we have jointly established this in the Government and I think that even in the debate when those who wanted to talk about the law were behind it, we have explained that we have found the only possible solution that has helped farmers and OPGs and suppliers and that through an extraordinary commissioner, through dialogue with banks we are also working on a solution to what is called exchanges, regress bonds, exchanges for delivered goods. But what's the point of this moment? I think that's where we all agree. It is a transformative moment for the way in which the Croatian economy operates, in accordance with the law, without addiction and without additional obligations. That's the point and that's the goal and that's the main product of our common effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37692	Representative Miroslav Simic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37693	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, today we have heard something in your speech that you have been talking about for the past few days, which is collegiation and then responsibility. In doing so, you call MOST and MOST ministers that they were not collegiate enough from your perspective. I think that MOST has shown an extraordinary co-ordination and that you knew about the MOST's position, that we would not support Minister Maric a month before the business deadline for the debate on the subject. That's where we showed our collegiation. How much did Minister Maric show his co-ordination in a situation where, as the executive director of Agrokor, for a year and a half, the finance minister does not communicate clearly with his colleagues, in which problems are Agrokor? How much did you show collegiate when you spoke to the presidents of the opposition parties before the cabinet meeting today and invited them to create a new majority of whom you are still trying? And I'd end up with college and I'd call myself responsible. I think that MOST ministers showed responsibility at the government's meeting above all, did not follow some subsequent public advice that they could answer the phone or I don't know how to go to light a cigar and not be at that session of the government but have shown responsibility to Croatian citizens, according to Croatian taxpayers and have made their position clear. Clearly, as you said, the government is not a debate club, I agree with that, but the government is neither you nor the government has to vote unanimously. We had a situation where certain ministers were acting collegiately in the former governments and silently and we know where these ministers ended up. I mean the government of Eve Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37694	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37695	Are you fellow Shimic implying some kind of criminal responsibility? ... Come on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37696	I'd ask it not to be a replica. The Prime Minister has two minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37697	A fellow Simic to imply such a thing, you surprise me. You're a lawyer, we're the same generation, you were a member of HDZ youth, one of the key people and founders at that moment of what the HDZ youth was 25 years ago, and I appreciate it, and I respect you very much. I think now the dialogue we had was very good. This is like a compliment to you. This is like a compliment to you. But let's go back to the scale of your exposure. As I realized, about a week before the cabinet session, that MOST would be against Minister Maric so I made it very clear that such an attitude means that relations as they are today cannot go any further. There was no dilemma in that formulation. Maybe I was in a conversation that was regular, structured, was rather nice, too clear, maybe we're not in a parliamentary debate, so I have to make it clear that this is A, this is B, but I've been clear enough to understand that message. We had a situation with Minister Barisic where we are a whole catalogue and a host of possible ways to stay politically in one's position and not to harm what is the minimum cohesion of the political partnership, so if you want coalitions to solve. And that's when we found a solution. And here there was a way. It is not the same to vote in the Government and take a stand in the Croatian Parliament. These are two different institutions, in the end line and different people. And what I think is the point, and even some of the kind of political pedagogy, can't be two governments in one. That's not working. There can be only one government, an integrated government, a cohesive government with one Prime Minister and loyal ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37698	Thank you. Representative Andro Krstulovic Opra requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37699	Dear Prime Minister, this morning I spoke to saleswoman Dinko at the bakery who told me, there are a lot of unstable politicians and politicians who have no idea, they want a determined government. They want a government that has its own goal and is against politicians who are scoldingly holding onto their chair. They also expected reforms of self-called reformers that we saw no reform of local self-government but we saw the reform carried out by the finance minister because it stabilised, stabilised state finances, increased credit rating, we actually raised exports and production, we prevented the destabilising of Croatian economies by introducing lex Agrokor. It can only actually be a strong and stable, credible government. And its main feature is determination, uncompromising against chaos, and wandering in attitudes that we have heard in the past few weeks. It is clear that the government cannot function with the ministers voting for the SDP proposal. And that's what Dinka and I are telling you. The Dinka who really wants to do something less on television than we have seen in the last few weeks, which are definitely not serving the goal, is to reduce the government you run to 0.5% in 2020 when Croatia holds the EU presidency. After all, a stable government and a stable economy here is also a European issue of interest, as I said. And... [[The President's incursion: Time.]] but also the entire Croatian public [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I'm using this opportunity to explain [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] To the colleagues that with what they've told us now, mixing all sorts of... [[/Adversity President: Opara's representative has run out of time. I think he was quite enough.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37700	You're out of time, I'm sorry. You're welcome. Representative Marko Vučetic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37701	Here, Mr. Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to your exposure by trying to find some reasonable argument as a man who has no previous expectations or previous decisions. The only thing you've offered is false arguments. The first pseudo argument is, the pseudo argument of calling for authority whether you are calling for someone else's authority, you have not done it now, whether you are calling for your own authority which can only be founded in this interim position of the prime minister. And the argument you used then is certainly fleeting. The second pseudo argument rests on the creation of this audience, applause, applause to rebuild an important argument from the audience. And what's not fake here, and the only thing that's true is that we don't have a capable minister. Many parliamentary deputies have said that we have a capable minister. We cannot have a capable minister if he is exempt in 30 or 40% of his decisions, if he is exempt, and should act as minister, then it is a minister who is not capable. Is he incapacitated because he's incapacitated by another or is he just disabled now is of little importance. But it certainly is a man who is deeply interested in the political position, which we have seen, for the political position of the minister in the previous government, prime minister in the previous government and minister in the current government. We can talk about the policy of the turn door. She's 2011. Monty brought Italy to power. We can discuss, exchange literature on political topics and arguments errors. But what's undeniable is that you don't have a capable minister and that's that you didn't bring it, you made no argument. It's just a pseudo argument or a lie. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37702	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37703	Dear colleague Vučetic, what do you think when you say pseudo is that about 30.40% of the Minister of Finance's activity. What 30, 40%? Which decision can you list so that 30, 40% of the working volume of a finance minister from which he can call himself a 30% to 40% percentage according to your so firmly-founded actual-checked source of credible arguments, and everything I said or my colleague Maric is a pseudo, quasi that we are clearly false or untrue argument. Give it to me from your presentation to explain a little to the Croatian public or to your colleagues who listen to you. What lie is that? What's the lie? What is wrong with what I said, what did my colleague Maric say? It's not there. There's some fam that the finance minister who's careful how you say it easily is an incompetent assistant, State Secretary, Doctor of Economic Sciences, Minister of Finance, Executive Director of Agrokora. It's nothing negative, it's a plus. All that, yeah, that a colleague of Thunderbolts didn't take you? Do you think that's bad? Is that all Mr. Maric did in his career makes him incompetent? By whose criteria, according to which table of values, by whose logic you so greedy colleague Vučetic say that Zdravko Maric is incompetent. I see by my standards, and I'm sure I'm not the only one thinking the exact opposite. I think it's very good quality. and a very good minister. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] And I haven't heard from any of your club members. To this day, neither did a fellow minister think of anything like that, let alone said it. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37704	Thank you. Representative Allen Prelec has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37705	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr Plenkovic, I listened carefully to everything you said and all along you say that MOST ministers were good ministers, especially here in that former government of Prime Minister Oreshkovic. That's good, though I don't know how you know they were very good and that they worked very well with the then government you spoke to Prime Minister Oreshkovic. All right. You're talking about the fact that even now they're exceptional ministers, you're talking about them in praise about how good, competent they are. But you're so cold-blooded, you've easily replaced them. They replaced ministers who were good and who worked well for Croatia. Is that a coincidence with national interests? Well, it's not clear to me that you've changed four good ministers in your government with a single minister who's here a complete Croatian public thinks you should step down. I don't get it. So is something going on in the background that we don't know, and we don't know much, because the government doesn't have a direct transmission like the Croatian Parliament does. So give us a little bit of an explanation of how you got rid of those four ministers so easily and easily and kept one that was the most unpopular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37706	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37707	Comrade Prelec, your exposure is in the domain of these fantasies, dark forces, mosques, special interests, nests that cannot be touched by underground deals. What are you talking about? I repeat myself, and once again I will tell you about my colleague Kovačić and colleagues Orepić, Šprlja, Dobrovic, you will not hear anything from my mouth because I have no reason, because I am not, because it is not necessary because they have dedicatedly done their job. It was a decision that falls within the scope of the previous political issue, a decision that belongs to whether you are part of one project, one team, one agreement or not. You can't be in the same boat and then say this here we'll throw it out, let it drown, we'll watch it still push it, we'll throw it first and let it melt. Well, I won't. There is nothing spectacular, there is no great economic interest, there is no protection of crime, there is no personal, family, private, taboo connections, there is nothing colleague Prelec and the entire Croatian public..., there is nothing but the fundamental principle of trust between partners, the fundamental principle of functioning in one government where you can't be if you don't trust your colleagues. If you don't trust your colleague Maric and raise your hand that something that hasn't even been discussed yet and not even a chance to come to the MOST club, the SDP club, on the board of some, here but without a debate you say hops, you don't have any more. I won't give it, I won't give it, I'm not that kind of man and I would defend the MOST Minister in the same way as I defend Zdravko Marić today. And there's all the point, there's nothing secret. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] There's nothing secret about a colleague named Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37708	Thank you. Representative Lackovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37709	Thank you, Mr. President. I thought I'd give up. So I wanted to make one observation to the prime minister from one position not the party council representative, ideologically unburdened, and I think that's how the vast majority of the audiences who are monitoring the work of the Parliament sees it. I think that your efforts to point out the argumentation or need to justify the debate are in vain today, I think that no one or a large majority of the parties here, and then the MPs of Parliament respect neither the political nor the economic moment in which our country is located. I think that the insult at a personal level has taken on really degutant proportions, and I think that this is all our citizens rightly condemn, and I think that your moment should be at this moment, whether or not with this composition at all, I'm going to call it a dysfunctional assembly because you don't have to find yourself here, I'm not going to offend anyone now, but two smart people to start dealing with things in our society. We have a classic pre-election campaign here, and it might be best to set a day of new elections to coincide with local elections and simply give in to all those who are here chasing the collapse of the government who feel that there should be a big overrun in the direction of those seeking the resignation of Minister Maric, I think it is best that we go to new elections. Here's my advice to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37710	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37711	Well, I don't think there are two smart people in the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Lackovic here has a lot of smart people and a lot of responsible people, people who aren't here by chance, who are there by their work, by their pawnage, by supporting voters, by supporting Croatian people, and we're all here because someone has given us confidence. Do we do important things? I think we're in business. I think all the points in the government that were important on Thursday are that this large pile of material that is now waiting for me for a narrow cabinet is very important because it will bring new legislative proposals to the Croatian Parliament. I also think it is not very important that I speak to Donald Tusk for an hour in this context to explain to him what a strict provision of the revised Schengen border code for the Croatian economy means for Croatian tourism is. So then he talks to Slovenian Prime Minister Cerar the next morning, and then at the EPP leader's summit, explain to everyone what it means to fight terrorism in a flash picture at that time on the i-ped state of traffic on Bregani. And then you come to a meeting with Juncker and Cerar and you explain it and you agree that it's legal to implement that regulation in a way that you move from systematic to targeted control when you see that the rows are longer than 15 minutes. Then I think I'm doing something useful and good for Croatia, for you, for me, for people who go through Croatia, for our tourism, for our economy. Nothing's holding me back from doing something good for Croatia, and it won't hold me back. And that's the point and that means that we have the capacity and focus to work and function well. I'm not impressed by the public internet media space that it's a drama, that something doesn't work. What's not working? Is the Croatian Parliament working? Is it the government? It's working. Is there some kind of chaos? Are we? The Lex we brought in to prevent the economic collapse? [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] We did. ...now it's just the responsibility of all of us as far as we go. And I'm here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37712	Thank you. The following replicas were sent to the finance minister. Representative Ivan Pernar requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37713	Dear Minister of Finance, Mr. Maric. Why don't you tell the Croatian public that this year alone this year you'll raise 45 billion kuna loans? SDP colleagues said, i.e. from the HDZ that SDPs have raised in four years 100 billion kuna credits, you have raised i.e. You're planning to raise 45 billion kuna in this year, Mr. Maric. I'm curious about when you're going back and whether your plan of endless borrowing and sale of assets essentially comes down to the same thing you did in Agror? Because Agrokor worked the same way as the Croatian State. They were raising bigger and bigger loans that they weren't returning. You too, in the same way you acted in Agrokor, are now leading the Croatian state to ruin, and the Croatian people to disappear. That's your future, Mr. Maric. You've got nowhere to get your credit back from, and you're aware of that. And this whole circus needs to end as soon as possible, and you leave this place because you have no legitimacy, because of you Mr. Maric and your failed policies we vote here today on you, on trust you because of you the government has fallen apart. But you think it's better if everything goes south and Agrokor and the state and there's a new election just to keep your chair safe. That's your policy, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37714	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37715	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will, of course, refer to the first part of the public debt policy when I say and announce to the Croatian public, so I have already done so many times amongst other things in this House. That Saturday, a long-standing debate on the vote of the state budget for this year. It is very clear then that the two of us in one more informal, not this official part of us also discussed this topic. So the figures that come in terms of total maturity, credit, binding and them very clearly, very transparently shown in the state budget, on the website of the Ministry of Finance, I personally spoke them, all the way right. However, while you are already calling me on results, I must confess and thank you for this because you have actually given me the reason that I am already apostrophe of something that is very often not to be said in some way, and this is the fact that for the first time, despite what you are saying about the loan and the loans that have been raised for my mandate, that is, the same bonds have made the following fact. First, for the first time in our recent past and history, we managed to reduce public debt by 500 million kuna, so also nominally but in share in BPP by some 2.5%. What makes me particularly happy, especially in 2016, is that if you compare me to 2015 precisely from this smart and determined public debt management policy we have reduced our interest expenditure, so what we all together as taxpayers and states pay to different creditors, whether domestic or foreign by 763 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37716	Representative Branimir Bunjac, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37717	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. Minister Maric, as you know, we from the Living Wall have never raised a hand for you, so we have no reason to even raise now that it is your impeachment. We suspected from the beginning that you were a good finance minister for a number of reasons and one of the main reasons is that you worked in Agrokor from 2012 to 2015 when the company did extremely negative business. So all the results of Agrokor during that period show that the company is sinking and moving towards the collapse we're witnessing right now. I see no reason for the minister who, therefore, has no good reviews behind him as a responsible person to be in an even more responsible position such as the Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, your entire profile shows that you do not sympathise with the people, that you are not as solid as your boss was. Because you build castles, you buy Audi A6, you're full of stock, you have a bunch of real estate, savings in euro, in dollars, in kunas at a time when people dig through garbage, while people act, while children at school have nothing to eat. Such a moral profile is not suitable for the government of a country in deep crisis. So I repeat again, you're here primarily because of yourself. You're not here for me. My fate is as irrelevant to you as the fate of Croatian citizens. You've come here to work, let's just say, under the quotes of your career and you're ready for your own breakthroughs and egos, here's what we see the whole country keep in stalemate while time goes by inexorably. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37718	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37719	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Thank you very much, first of all, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. So I was created, born and raised by two of the most honorable people I know in this world, these are my parents, and they gave me basics as well as any other child their parents want to make possible, which is a decent education. I've tried that opportunity, and I'm still trying to make the best of it. You've read my property card now. I'm telling you again, I'm not hiding anything, and I've shown everything transparently and openly. I've earned everything in a fair way and I've earned it. And all you're saying is that it stands, and I have absolutely nothing to be ashamed of. However, as I said in the opening speech, all my jobs and I worked during the student days, I was a university student, I worked different types, if you will and physical affairs, then I went into the business career of the Economic Institute for 5 years, Ministry of Finance for 6 years, Agrokor for 4 years and again the Ministry of Finance for a year and a half. You keep putting me on the Crimean Agrokor. I repeat once again, every job I've done I'm extremely proud of. I'm proud of everything I've done and all the results I've won. But if you're already comparing me with competences, compare that I've spent twice as much working time in the Ministry of Finance as I have in Agrokor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37720	Representative Kresho Beljak, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37721	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Maric, do you remember when I told you that you were not a politician but an accountant? ... And now you see that I was right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because if you were a politician then you'd know to predict this all that's happened. On the opposition parties, it's up to all of us who are in the opposition to be against it. If you were the best and you weren't, if you were the best and you weren't the opposition, you'd be against it. You opened the door to a wide population, you opened the door to manipulation, you opened everything that shouldn't have happened, and if you were a politician, you would have predicted it. You opened up the possibility for opposition parties and for parties who until yesterday were part of the ruling coalition to pulsate with or without facts, which is why the Croatian public does not know why we are also involved in politics opening up the possibility of broad speculation thanks to you being at one point in your career as an employee of Agrokor. Agrokor has cooked up the crisis, the crisis in Agrokor has taken place. Agrokor is a topic that everyone struggles over and tries to collect cheaper or more expensive political problems. You created a problem for Mr. Plenkovic who has been defending you heartily and sincerely all morning, because he has to defend you, because your fall is also his fall. You created problems for HDZ, you created problems for the ruling majority, you created problems for the Republic of Croatia. With everything I'm sure you've done well, what you're saying I won't get into it at all. But you created a political problem for the Republic of Croatia. And I'm asking you to think this through. There's still time not to push for your personal ambition if you're capable, and yes, if you're good, and you are, you'll certainly find yourself in an even better paid position in the future than it is in the position of the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37722	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37723	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I remember very well your last intervention, or ours through the replicas of the dialogue when you called me an accountant. That's when I was replicating you, a lot of people accepted it as very nice. And my college professor went straight to some files and files to check what grade I had in accounting. And indeed, one of the few fours was really accounting. And I really still don't... Me personally? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You didn't even ask me, ask me. [[Intruder President: Representative Beljak!]] As far as my career or position is concerned, or as a politician, what you're saying is that I'm not or am a politician, so I don't feel that way. I don't experience myself completely or anything like that. I'm like the Prime Minister just before said a non-partisan candidate. The Croatian Democratic Community has given me confidence in the past term, as well as in this and stood deep behind me because they recognized that there is room in the executive government for professional people who are not sickly ambitious. I'm not even sick of ambition. I don't have any problems at all, and I've said countless times, nor have I been born, nor will I forever be Minister of Finance. For the past year and a half, I've been doing my job with honor and responsibility. Here you see a few of my associates, 7450 employees of the Ministry of Finance who I am extremely proud of. I work very well with them, and I work very well with them. What they'll bring tomorrow we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37724	Representative Željko Lackovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37725	Thank you. Honored Minister, so one question. I'd like an exact answer. So, when the law was passed, I warned that the law could also be called lex Todorovic unless the issue of property is resolved, i.e. the ownership of Agrokor. I suggested that the assets be frozen, that some provisions be passed that would prevent a transaction of business stakes, because then we could at some point be saved by who knows whose company would come through the given guarantees and speculative capital to the wrong hands, and intervention would be state. So this is what I said in the introduction because I don't see the difference why you took it out at the time of the legal solution and then later when the law was passed you normally function. So either there was no reason to exempt yourself at a time when the law was prepared at the Ministry of Finance and in the Government or now the same reason exists. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37726	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37727	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, therefore, starting with a culture of self-exemption, and something we have heard about from both official statements and statements from the people who lead the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest and who actually give their own court and justice. I've made only two decisions concerning Agrokor's exemption. That was, one or two in favour of voting for the approval of loans to companies from the Agrokor concert system through HBOR, since I am acting as the finance minister of the HBOR Supervisory Board. And the second was to vote the law, i.e. lex Agrokora, where I said I would exclude myself from participating in lawmaking myself personally but not the house, or institution that I am headed. And your comments and your suggestions finally fit into the law itself, and in the session itself you would see that he was a representative of the Ministry of Finance. So these are the two only situations I've been talking about. I can refer to myself a little earlier on about me being 40% of my decisions, 30 to 40% of my decisions being made. I repeat once again, these are two exclusive and the only decisions. In this very statement, which came out of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, it was just apostrophe that in concrete cases which could possibly be situations such as debt forgiveness, payment payments and the like should be excluded in all circumstances. At the same time, however, they encourage not only me, but all others who have had any business career in the private sector, of course, to carry out public duties and responsibilities and to make decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37728	Representative Bojan Glavasevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37729	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Minister Maric, good afternoon. First of all, let me thank you for answering with one appropriate modesty in view of the situation so far. Although the Prime Minister defended you most of the time that was assigned to you. I'd have been happier if it had been the other way around, if you'd spoken three quarters of that time, and he'd only been talking for a few minutes for you. We, although the prime minister claims that this is not the case, have, therefore, placed some evidence in the motion for your recall. So we believe that before the procedure led by the committee against you was completed, you did not opt out in making all decisions. As counterpart Lackovic says, we have no dilemma that this should have been consistent, that you should have been excluded from everything. We believe that while you were working in Agrokor that financial reports if you didn't participate in their design, you should have been able to access them through and through analysis to see that something in them is not clean. In fact, Mr. Ramljak saw it very quickly. And other banks, among other things, the VTB bank, when she looked at those reports, saw that there was something wrong with them. Also, you mentioned the loan that you took in time which, well at that point was legal but in any case it wasn't moral to take it. And today, from this perspective, somehow, the impression remains that the one “who put up the pit, the pit, ” I'm not saying that that's what you think, I'm just saying that maybe you should think about whether it was moral. The prime minister asked us if we had the impression that you somehow damaged the Croatian economy, what I'm just saying is that when Agrokor finally falls, it won't be an impression issue. It'll be a matter of fact. [[Intruder Petrov: Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37730	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37731	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, so here's kind of now sending your eyes to this side of the assembly all the time I'm expecting now is going to come up with some kind of finally concrete question. Well, you said in the very obvious you counted a few specific things and we as Government responded to them. So, as far as the committee itself is concerned about preventing conflicts of interest again, I have said countless times and I think it is my duty as Minister of Finance to be primarily legalist, so at this point, and I do not want to imply at all any work, however, I am prepared for any procedure and legal order and whatever it is related to this issue is very responsible, ready and clear and public and transparent answer. At this point, there is no such thing as a procedure. But the implication is that I'm being implicated, and we've been responding, among other things. You're mentioning my credit that I raised in 2010 at HPB, so I repeat again, that loan was already then given that I was a state official shown in my property card. Also with the beginning of my mandate on 23 January 2016 in the then and today's property card, so I never hid anything. And I ask you one more time only if I can mention that famous saying that was also in this Croatian Assembly, I don't see where I am and what I've been bailing on, so it's a loan and I repeat it again at HPB. I also had a lot of opportunities when I came out of the state administration system to refinance that loan in any other of the commercial banks as well as my current account on which I receive the salary, and the credit commitment I have kept still in HPB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37732	Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37733	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Maric. Let me ask you a few questions, I'm aware that for a short period of time I'm not sure you'll be able to answer all of them, but here's the cave in order. Why did you allow Agrokor additional time by changing the factoring law or by extending the deadline for harmonisation in which he did not have to meet certain conditions, including the risk management plan, and the mandatory control of HANFA? You said that, as Director of the Strategy Department, you were not doing financial reports, but that you had received and used it in your further transactions of negotiations and sales, and you had no need to banish it. You were the director, responsible person whose signature is placed on all agreed actions with another person on the basis of these reports. Are you going to say that as Minister of Finance you sign and arrange actions you don't previously check and you don't know if they're correct? Were you as president of the HBOR Supervisory Board, regardless of your exemption, obliged to protect the HBOR institution from giving money to a company that is now on the burden of the state and we must save it? Were you obliged to at least check who was given over 300 million kuna? By changing the Statistical Reports Act, did you have the objective of covering up the situation in Agror? And as for the end of this HPB loan, I fully agree with you, you like every man in the Republic of Croatia have the right to raise a loan and I don't see anything controversial, but is it disputed that you as the finance minister representing the Republic of Croatia in the assembly have a loan in that bank?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37734	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37735	Here's what I'm going to do. I'm really going to be brief, or I'm going to answer in two minutes, but I'm sure we're going to be returning these topics again. The factoring law was adopted in 8 months 2014, automatically with prolongat in the sense of compliance between companies engaged and performing factoring services for 12 months, so by 8 months 2015 it was already said then given the situation of the then government regulation with the legal power that constitutes the second prolongat of the same law, i.e. the deadline for the harmonisation of companies engaged in and provided factoring services by 31.3.2016. I entered into force on 23 January 2016, you well know then we were under the temporary funding regime, the first step was to draw up the state budget and plan and the reform programme or convergence. Based on that, and I certainly won't, I'm telling you right now in the course of the debate, not a single decision I'm going to make on any of my colleagues, but the Ministry of Finance's professional services gave me a brief review of their discussions with the factoring industry, and also with the basis of factual facts about how many companies at that time applied or received approval for the work and provision of factoring services, it was only three out of 13. With this in mind we decided to prolongat further until 31.12.2016. In the Croatian Parliament, the law was passed by 94 votes for and 7 abstentions, no one was against. At this point, seven companies performing factoring services are licensed by the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency, and five other companies are in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37736	Blaženko Boban asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37737	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Honorable Ministers. I'm going to use this replica to ask you a question, is it an opportunity for you to bring what you have brought here today before us parliamentary representatives to present it to your fellow ministers before the government vote itself, or have they voted without this knowledge? That's what I'm asking for the public to clear up whether the government voted on the basis of knowledge and facts and your report or whether it was voted on for some other reason? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37738	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37739	Thank you very much. Your Honor. I can't say and I can't speculate and I don't want to speculate on what reasons it was voted for, but I can certainly say it wasn't voted from the perspective of dealing with arguments or asking questions and giving answers. So many times I said that with my colleagues from MOST, in the government we were ministers and colleagues, we participated in countless situations, I would never go into details and present certain cases of projects or objects but at least in those two most important ones publicly available and these are the two state budgets that we worked on together, I never showed any kind of incarceration, on the contrary, both to my colleagues from the Most, and to my colleagues from HDZ and all and as my entire government, I understood as my duty to be responsible and open-minded in such matters. I'll be a little while if you'll allow me not to injure some provision of the Rules of Procedure, but I'll tie this question to your previous question, since I haven't been able to answer. When I talk about these facts and the truth, we've heard one thing that's not true before. Why isn't it true? It was said that I signed financial reports in Agrokor. So in Agrokor, in the system of Agrokor in my four years spent in Agror two signatures I put on two papers. One was my contract to work and the other was my termination of the labor contract. It's the only two signatures I've put in at four years in Agrokor. I put 50 signatures in the Ministry of Finance every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37740	Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37741	Thank you very much. Minister Maric, just before, Prime Minister Plenkovic gave a speech on Boza Petrov and loyalty and other MOSTs. As you felt last year when Tihomir Oreskovic was the case, did you feel at that time and you were a candidate, did you then feel any suite towards the man, but the same thing awaits Prime Minister Plenkovic, you are a rather ambitious man and it is your right and you should build, continue on this, and Prime Minister Plenkovic will soon clap this left side as he clapped today Plenkovic, before Karamark and Sanader... You don't have a problem with that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tell me, why did you cut the asset disproportionate deadline? That's why I didn't, yes, well, the amendment amended the agreements here, I personally didn't vote for your tax reform, on cooperation with the Most, I didn't vote for the budget because you poured out the entire Dalmatian Zagora because you didn't give compensation measures and you promised them here from the pay phone. As for your relationship in Agrokor. If you really didn't know anything about Agrokor, then you're no expert. And since you're an expert, you knew everything. And 20.1. And in the second month, you repeated to the public, to the MPs and to the government, to your colleagues you did not give an answer, you did not give an answer to whether there was a crisis in Agrokor. And you've withdrawn from making decisions. And now we'd like to be general again. You should have, if you've withdrawn from making decisions about Agrokor, the biggest crisis, and you know it, because I don't believe you don't know, if you don't know, then you're not an expert person and I don't doubt you're an expert.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37742	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37743	Thank you very much. The state of my feelings and emotions, no matter how good it is, it's not a good idea to bring it out in public, but I'll tell you, here's the saying you asked me. I don't feel today, and I didn't feel at all comfortable last year, and I wouldn't want anyone to be in the situations I was in last year and this year. You're implying something that I can't accept at all as justified that I had anything to do with the fall of last year's government. ... I had something to do with it? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Anyway, let's let it go, I highly appreciate Prime Minister Oreshkovic both as professional and as, in the field of expertise and in the human field. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder President: Representative Miro Bulj.]] We worked together, but I've never done anything behind his back like that or any other person. I don't work behind Prime Minister Plenkovic's back or anyone else I want to work behind my back. And you're calling me for some of my ambitions, I assume you're saying them in a negative context. My ambitions are only strictly related in a positive sense, I'm not sickly ambitious and what you're implying to me, I'm doing my job as best I can, deeply aware of all the facts and circumstances that tomorrow may not be anymore. But life goes on. As for this disproportionate property, it was, we had this debate and a colleague of the Grmoys had just mentioned it. I repeat once again, for seven months we have been working on tax reform, a team at the Ministry of Finance made up of people from the tax administration, my closest associates and the expert team, an expert task force that I thank for my engagement on this occasion. The expert group concluded that in one simple and transparent way all the executive processes and lengths of the performance, or what was needed to, excuse the length of the statutes, given that we had a totally complicated system that we couldn't manage. For six years, it's enough time for antiquity to come because in six years, tax and all other authorities have to bring a word of law on the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37744	Representative Gordan Maras, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37745	Thank you very much, here's my question about something the minister obviously doesn't consider problematic but I'm going to ask a direct question. Do you think Minister Maric is morally privileged to take a loan in the HPB where the state appoints you as a supervisor, at an interest rate that is 2% more favourable than what all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia can take in that same bank? Is that right and is it moral that you did, you took advantage of the possibility that the state has given you by naming you as the bank's supervisor to take advantage of the possibility that the bank's employees might have? What's the bank's interest in subsidizing and stimulating a government official like that? And I'm asking you one more question, did you market that loan after you left H.P.B.? You understand the question? So that's what Croatian citizens are also interested in, because on the payment deadline that you have that loan in interest is 2% over 2 hundreds of 60 thousand kuna. So very simply then, Minister Maric, State Secretary Maric, at the most privileged interest rates, has benefited from ordinary citizens who came to the bank for a loan of 2 hundred 60 thousand kuna. Tell me, Minister Maric, do you think it's moral?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37746	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37747	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's your interpretation and your calculations. I'll do it again. Well, you know, I can see that you've met and done detailed calculations of both my credit and some other loans. But she finally did a little bit of work on that math on your side. As far as the loan is concerned, it is therefore approved in accordance with all the acts and laws themselves. So there was nothing controversial about it. On the other hand, what's the role of banks? To approve of the loans. So no one gave me anything and I pay interest on it and return that interest to the Croatian postal bank, the Croatian postal bank. I am sure that you are also familiar with the other detail of my property card that there is another residential credit in my property card that has been issued, or approved in one commercial bank which, by the way, is said to have a lower interest rate than this one. I'm just asking you if when you ask me that question, you're also clear enough, open and transparent not only for us, but you talk to the public and tell the public about the loans you've received, you've closed them down, who approved them both in what way and under what conditions. If you're ready for that, I'm prepared to further explicate every single detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37748	We've exhausted the replicas with this. The motioner has asked for it. Excuse me a moment. Since I haven't written down my colleague Maras, could you be patient with the exposure while we're at it, I would also like to apologize to Representative Simic. I didn't write it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37749	I had a replica of the presentation of Minister Maric. You even had a conversation whether I was right or not. Dear Minister, we have all witnessed in the past two or three months that Croatia is facing a really big financial crisis resulting from one bad business in Agrokor. I think even the Croatian public is unaware of the consequences of these crises if these things don't fall apart well, I'm afraid we'd have bigger consequences than we experienced in the Homeland War. In my opinion, this crisis is a fact of Croatian society. It's a fact that no one can kill today. On the other hand, we have a situation which is also the fact that you worked in Agrokor as executive director, which is the position of senior management. That's what you and I know well. Today you are the Minister of Finance in a state that is in danger of the operation of this Agrokor. At this point, I'm not talking about your subjective responsibility about whether or not you did something there, you didn't do it. But I'm talking about a healthy logic in one orderly country. We have a huge crisis that is due to a company where the finance minister has been working on the position of high management. Even you're that connection that didn't recognize well, so you said, as you said, you acted in accordance with the culture of exemption if I said it right. So you had a need not to participate in decision-making in certain cases, because you correctly recognized that your relationship between the company where you worked at the position you worked and these crises should simply not be acceptable. Because of all this, and I'm only talking about facts, I'm not talking about any subjective responsibility, but I'm talking about the illogicalness of the position at the position of the finance minister we have a person from the high management of the company that has compromised Financial security [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]] I'm asking you why you didn't resign. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Because all we have today, the position you're in is the consequence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37750	Thank you. Representative Simic is out of time, I apologize. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37751	I'll try to answer this question briefly. So, my resignation, my recall whatever you call it, so I personally have no problem with it. But at this point I also told you colleagues, until yesterday's coalition partners I also told me to give me an opportunity to make my arguments and my answers and we'll judge something. I am saddened not to say by many and condemned but without asking me one thing without asking me about that decision. You're saying it's not a subjective impression. Yeah, it's a subjective impression. Give me one piece of evidence. Just before I speak, I put two signatures in four years on two papers. Both of them concern me, so work contracts and work terminations, job terminations. What exactly did I do to bear that kind of responsibility? But I repeat once again, I have no problems, nor was I born, nor will I be Minister of Finance. ... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37752	I'd like to ask you not to engage. The applicant's representative has requested an address, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37753	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, after the presentation of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the opening part of the debate, I have reported to comment on certain matters, but also to return to the scale and to what we consider to be controversial with Minister Maric and which is why I am asking for his recall. You've seen it before now, so Minister Maric is unable to say whether his move to raise a loan in 2010 is moral, is unable to say whether he has marketed a loan, which means that when he left the bank, from the supervisory board like all employees of that bank do when they leave, whether the interest rate is consistent with the market interest rate that the bank gives. That's what HPB employees did, but we don't know if it's Minister Maric. He still has a chance to say that. Why didn't 2011 or 12th when he left the bank do the same thing with the interest rate what all those employees who got a preferential interest rate do? Minister Maric can tell us that. Why did Cedo Maletic, who was head of the bank there, and Minister Maric did not match his interest rate as they did hundreds of HPB employees when they left there. And that's the real question, Minister Maric used his position to get his loan 2% more favourable than that market. As far as my loans are concerned, they're also very happy to respond. No one is at the advantage of the interest rate, I still pay interest rate even though it was lowering more than Minister Maric pays in 2010 and I did not take advantage of my position and I did not acquire such property as did Minister Maric in Agrokor, who has failed today. Imagine the situation, all your life in the public sector, four years in Agrokor, savings, watches all living, and the company failed. And Maras took the loans and bought an apartment and adapted the apartment all works out of a loan, bought a car, etc. And now I'm the official here who's been asked, and Minister Maric is honest, he's the one. Why didn't you market the interest rate, Mr. Minister? Why? Do you have a right to do that? Why do HPB employees have to do this? Why didn't you have to do it? That's what we're interested in, it's a conflict of interest, and you need to tell the Croatian public because it doesn't matter if you pay 200 thousand kunas of interest more or less in 16 years. Why doesn't a woman or a man who works on a counter in the HPB have to do it in 2011, in 2012, you didn't do it? Is that fair? Say it's fair here, it's moral and stay Minister for all I care, but it's neither fair nor moral, and everybody needs to know that. And it doesn't matter if it's 2010, '16, '17. Why hasn't anyone seen 2010? so we didn't have any published data on the Internet, you could report to the commission what you wanted, it was only seen now that the Internet is available or when people have these cards on their disposition. Tell me, is it moral that you took out the interest rate of two hundred thousand kunas more favourable than what did the same HPB employee or employee who left HPB in 2011 when you did? They matched the interest rate, you didn't. As far as public perception is concerned, over 60% of people want you to leave. That's what everyone sees, you can make Prime Minister Plenkovic here as high as he wants, now he can go and forget a little smile whatever he wants, but people want you to go. These are all polls, people have a certain perception of whether you're in a moral problem or not, and don't run away from it. Agrokor, did you know or not, so who can you convince in Croatia that you did not know that Agrokor was in the problem? Whom you can convince in Croatia that Cedo Maletic did not create the problem that the CNB warned about in 2014 with bonds in HPB, as regards Agrokor and a year later he received a job in Agrokor. So give people a little sum up two and two, that's the stuff that we're talking about here, the conflict of interest, what's wrong and what's to be discussed about. And he can't tell me Plenkovic tells me the numbers, ha, ha and ha and go, let him answer these questions, whether it's weird for him. I'll show him the numbers, here's 77 so many people tell me it's Minister Maric's recall. We'll see tomorrow at half past ten how they vote. Show me the numbers, 77, here we go. Look at Plenkovic and get back to him and get your eyes on it. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37754	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras is out of time... /Speakers speak at the same time./... I'm asking you not to produce incident situations. Thank you. I'd ask you to really stop if you're in hypoglycaemia soon we'll take a break, wait a minute. Five MPs reported for replication. Representative Goran Aleksic was first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37755	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Maras, I've spoken here a dozen times in an illegal way of changing interest rates, but you still don't seem to understand what's illegal in that. Namely, when you spoke about marketing, if the bank did so to Minister Maric, it would be illegal, so the banks unfortunately did so to their employees. But such a change in interest rates is not legal, so marketing is not allowed. The interest rate agreed at the beginning of the contractual relationship may only be changed on the basis of the parameters agreed if agreed. If no interest rate is agreed, it shall not be changed. That's exactly what I blame Minister Maric the most. I don't blame Minister Maric nor his relationship with the MPs, nor his relationship with the job, I resent him for only one fundamental fact, after a year and a half of the talks we had several times on fixed interest margins that are unlawfully determined in Croatian citizens' interest in manipulating interest rates. So banks today manipulate interest rates, the finance ministry is competent to propose a law that can be amended, the law has not yet been proposed. Unfortunately, that's why citizens paid a few billion kuna interest too much, it has to stop. Minister Maric received a proposal from the law on the table, what he said was against the retroactivity of the law. He's been telling me lately how he's really into the law, but on condition he's not retroactive. Well, Minister Maric should have told me that sentence before, he should have told me only one sentence. My colleague, Alexic, I am in favour of the law, but this law cannot be retroactive, and in that case we would discuss whether such a law can be passed without being retroactive. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37756	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37757	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexic, you haven't clearly understood the meaning of what I was saying. So I was saying that there were HPB employees who were at the same time that Minister Maric took the same loan, when they left the bank of Cedo Maletic, the management, they had to sign the annex and raise interest rates, Minister Maric obviously did not do so. That's what I see the problem with. Because you realize that there is a different treatment for the secretary of state which the state there has appointed and which was obliged to oversee Chad Maletic and now the story can be opened further. So how much did Cedo Maletic pay his bonus in that period while Mr. Maric was there head of the board of supervisors? Is that why Mr. Maletic missed doing what he did to other HPB employees? That's what I'm telling you, it's a conflict of interest, it can't be done, that's what we're complaining about. That's what we want to change. That's not right. No one who works on the counter can pay more interest than a state official sent there to oversee the work of the Post Office. The state and the supervisor must monitor and not use the opportunity to make use of their own benefits and make a privileged interest rate. If Minister Maric had a 2% interest rate, he would have paid the interest. The same way he could answer me as he just answered me. If it was rate 1, so I pay 1% to the Croatian bank, what are you asking me? But thousands and thousands of people who were also in that position there in the HKD don't pay 1. Those who left pay 2% more than what he paid or paid in 2010. That's the problem if you don't see it. I'm not talking about the problems of people who've been raising loans, I'm talking about the one who took advantage of his ability and didn't put himself in the same position as everyone else. Here's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37758	Representative Bozo Ljubic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37759	Thank you. Our colleagues and colleagues today are discussing the opposition to the recall of Finance Minister Maric, who is also joined by the MOST club. So, most of the clubs that, or the debaters who discussed doubtless confirmed that Minister Maric is professional and competent because of the references behind him. Domestic statistical agencies, international rating agencies, credit agencies have shown the success of Minister Maric, the stabilisation of public finances, the reduction of the budget deficit, the reduction of public debt, increased credit rating, reduced interest on borrowing, etc., etc. I'm asking a question here in the assembly but the same to any citizen who may have listened to this debate today. Where can a successful financier come from in the government to be Minister of Finance? It can come from a big company, it can come from a financial institution, it can come from a university. I as a university professor but also as a clinician, a doctor, a practitioner always prefers that person to come from the real sector. You have made no argument in favour of Minister Maric's shift, the only argument is that he worked in a small part of his career in Agrokor. I ask the question to each of us here and to the citizens who listen to us, is it better to have a capable minister from the real sector who proved himself and proved himself or from the employment office that the ministers in the government were coming before Mr Milanovic who left the country in debt with an increase in the budget deficit, with an increase in unemployment and a recession? So, Mr. Maras, I won't name them because you know them much better than those ministers who came to SDP's government from the employment office.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37760	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37761	Mr. Ljubic, you're a little confused, I won't blame you, you've probably come here today, it's a long way to go and you're tired. And you got confused because no one came from the employment office in the former government that I was in. And on the other hand, you're confused in a certain logic. I don't know if you went to technical school, high school, math school or something, if you had a logic then you'd see that it's not possible to say that a successful minister from a failed company came. How does that measure success? The duty thing? Well, at least if Minister Maric didn't sign the reports, then he probably took part in the borrowing of the concerts, in the raising of capital, bonds, so did..., executive director for the capital market. And now we're saying that the borrowings were unfavourable and that that's why the company got into trouble among other things. So how is it possible, then, that what you said exactly if he was so successful in Agrokor, that Agrokor was partially and because of the unfavourable borrowings he had fallen into the difficulties he had come into. So try, here, rest overnight, try to think about it, and tomorrow morning at the vote, I believe you'll make the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37762	Representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37763	Thank you very much, Reverend Maras. So you're wondering how Minister Maric got a preferential loan at the HPB bank. Well, things are actually very simple for someone who just wants to think a little bit. HPB's chairman, Mr Cedo Maletic, had the right to pay 17 thousand kuna, Minister Zdravko Maric, then state secretary at the finance ministry, allowed him to have the salary of 44 thousand kuna. He allowed him, among other things, to be in that position in the first place even though he knew that Mr. Cedo Maletic was legally convicted of withdrawing money from Imax Bank and that he had moved from the same Imax Bank to HPB along with his people from Imax Bank. Well, he's got debts to pay back. He's doing him a big favor. If it hadn't been for Mr. Zdravko Maric, Mr. Cedo Maletic today would have been on the job market as well as most people who are legally convicted of malfeasance. And it's perfectly logical that there was only a convenient moment to pass a year that Mr. Maric had a very concrete financial benefit from that. And that as long as Croatia was in recession of -8%, that such wages were paid, such preferential loans, while everyone's interest grew, while people in Swiss wars increased from 3 to 6 thousand kuna at that time, so the HPB administration had a 150% increase and similar HDZ interest rates were lower by 50%. That's the way Zdravko Marić worked and now he's spraying his ashes and for the hundredth time he says no, no, I didn't know it. I'm very proud. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37764	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37765	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I would like to see although I am not in a position to see how then the ministers among them and the minister of the then-Maric were obviously in the HPB, but also Minister Dalic in some other institutions, what I happen to know of the information, imagined how to bypass the pay limit set by the government of the Republic of Croatia, then Jadranka Kosor. It's not just the HPB, there's other institutions. We can really talk about this, although I shouldn't be able to talk about some things because I was a member of the Supervisory Board, so I learned that information in that function. But I do know in particular, here is for Minister Dalic that in some situations she has found ways with administrations to make people pay more than the government has defined by a decision. And that's something you shouldn't be doing. And let me tell you, here we are now talking to the Croatian public whether you think there are links between Mr. Maletic's departure to a company that worked very nicely with the HPB before that at the level of the exchanges, the regression notes, what is now also a problem. Over average compared to other banks when viewed by active banks. Can you imagine if this has anything to do with it? Why exactly the HPB had an average exposure through the bonds compared to some other much larger banks that still held it at a smaller level. You've got it all here in the CNB reports. Let the minister get it, let the minister get the records of the CNB and their objections. Well, you can't convince anyone. You can't convince anyone that it's not related to each other, that's what this is about. Mr. Maletic had to cooperate with Mr. Maric and Mr. Maric had to know as well. It's very simple, because he couldn't have been president of the Supervisory Board and he didn't know anything there either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37766	Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37767	Dear colleague Maras, you've done well in this loan. If we were Switzerland, the finance minister would probably resign afterwards, after it was seen that he practically used one privileged status and after he stopped being a secretary of state. But I wouldn't deal with that question, I would deal with this responsibility and commitment to Agrokor himself. On no question I raised here, Prime Minister Plenkovic avoided the answer. So I asked a very simple question why the finance minister of a country whose interest is to fill the state's register and exactly on the back of those who have, where the disproportionate property is shown. Why reduce the rate, try to reduce the rate if I hadn't intervened here in the Croatian Parliament it would have passed and we would have the lowest rate in the EU. And why would a finance minister whose interest is not known to my mayor in Metkovic be interested in filling the city's register, I guess it's the interest of the finance minister to fill the state budget, why would he go to reduce the time limit in which the existence of this disproportionate property means for the last six years, where every year he eats a year, and not how it's been since 2005. Why didn't it get into the tax scissors? From 2005 to 2010, we're trying to create a new tooth that's been clapping here, the same ones that were clapping on that jackrabbit, while Miro Bulj was telling him the bandit will come to you at the end of the sonic drink. And the same team clapped to the great leader. That's the key questions. The key question is, I don't know how long it is, I don't have time, I have a lot of specific questions for Minister Maric, but during the debate I will ask them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37768	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37769	I agree that the credibility of the Minister at Agrokor is questionable. I think no one in Croatia, meaning you're asking now, to stop anyone on the road and say that you're asking him if you believe that Minister Maric knew nothing that probably no one would answer you, he didn't know anything. Because what I'd say is simply not possible. But I really wanted to show you on a plastic example. People can feel it. Everybody's got some credits. So is it fair that someone at a privileged interest rate gets 260,000 kunas less cost than that of any other citizen of the Republic of Croatia? It's not a question of Switzerland, it's also a question of positions. To come back another time in a similar position, you'll do the same again. Well, I guess there's got to be some moral standard you can't make under which you can't go. Two percent interest today, tomorrow could be anything. So it's just a matter of giving you a chance. And it doesn't have to be illegal. Who's talking about illegal stuff? The issue of morality and illegality does not necessarily have to be linked. It's simple if you're in a position as minister to do some work, so you can't take whatever you want. Grab here, grab there. You can't do that! People have to trust public officials. And that's why this question is for me, believe me, this question that you've opened around Agrokor can be debated whether he knew, didn't know, who told him, didn't tell him. He signed it twice or 16 times, but he signed this. Now we haven't even heard the answer why he didn't market. We haven't heard or heard, he can't even tell the minister if it's moral, if he would do it now. Maybe that's when he didn't think. I wish he had any explanation, he says it's wrong. That's when it'd be okay. It's not right now. I wouldn't do it now. But we didn't hear "A" either, which means this particular topic is very important. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] And the shortest explanation is for the reasons [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Look how it's explained. [[Adversity President: Representative Maras, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37770	Thank you. Thank you, too, for your support from the HDZ Club. Representative Marija Jelkovac responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37771	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, you said that only now did you respond to this fact of the privileged loan of Minister Marić for the reason you didn't know about it before, because it was not evident that property cards were only now visible on the Internet. That's not true. It was visible a year and a half ago since the minister was also a minister, but then that fact was not interesting to you, it was not in your focus of interest. At the moment the results of his work in this government began to be seen behind Minister Maric then he became in some way a distraction to you, I think. So then Agrokor happened, and that worked out great for you because, look, he worked in Agrokor, let's construct the story and here we are. It's all about construction, and there's no argument and we're talking about the responsibility of the man who has the results behind him, who's an expert, who works under the law. I don't know how long in this country we'll be looking for the responsibility of those who work, who know, and we'll simply defend those who are loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37772	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37773	Thank you very much. Look, Mrs. Jelkovac, I don't like to say that I don't check out deep people, it's not my job, I just happened to find out, and when I found out, I acted alone. So on that side, I don't know what this is supposed to mean to you that I should have known about that loan a year and a half ago. Well, it's like I'm looking at all the property officials' cards now. Honestly, I don't care. I'm not looking into it. But when I heard about that information, then I had to react. But look at the government's response please nicely, now I'll read it that everyone hears meaning after what the government has written about all the other things, this is only in two paragraphs, very grossly that it is not illegal for the regulation to be made by the bank, means either the supervisory board or the one appointed by Minister Maric or the supervisory board where Minister Maric is sitting, so these are the two bodies that could have made that decision by the bank's internal acts, so they have set their own loans. On the other hand, it says under the same conditions as employees 4% and other members of the supervisory board, there are four more in the entire mandate probably no other official who has used it in the last ten years. But then comes the highlight of the reasoning, during which period the citizens who were 33 years old had then the minister of finance, they were able to obtain loans at the Real Estate Transport Agency that would be about the same interest rate. It's about a full interest rate. Look what that means, what kind of explanation is that? What, 4.5, 5? So let us calculate how much more favourable it is or not more favourable it is. Maybe the man's still in harm's way, maybe the state should be refunding him. What kind of explanation is that? As soon as he explains it to me like this, I know there's no argument about it. So it's about the same interest rate. Kunski credit in 2010. Go a little bit to the CNB you'll see everything is very simple to compare. It was a privileged loan you probably wouldn't know now that the interest is now lower because employees have reduced interest rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37774	Thank you. Time's up, Representative Maras. Since we have just come to the presentation or, or have completed the presentation of the motion, then I am opening the debate at this time by asking that, since the first Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA I will set a break of up to three hours and 15.00 hours, we will begin at 15.00 hours. Thank you. A meeting at 14.06 p.m. We're going back to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The first club of MPs to report for participation in the debate is the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club. The first to speak is the representative of Bunjac, after which MP Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37776	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister Maric, you said that you were basically proud of everything you've gained in life and in some way a man should be proud of it if he acquired it in a legal way, if you're legally rich, it's okay. However, you really need to explain a lot from your property card, and you should also explain why you changed some laws that went after the question of assets, such as the reduction of the limitation period and the like. Because you have about a 10-year internship in the state service, you've acquired four properties, Audi A6 new, you have shares very valuable, you have savings, hundreds of thousands of kunas, euros, dollars. And you have a loan war of $12,000. So let me know the moment you were secretary of state and had a salary of 13, 13.5 grand who could grant you a loan where the monthly war is equal to practically the amount of pay. And what did you live on anyway? From the air. What did you eat? Who paid you for the directors? How did you manage to save for Rolex and Audi if you had such a high credit war? Can you even explain what you needed a million kuna loan if you have a million kuna savings? So isn't it logical to pay cash if you have it without taking credit from banks where you'll pay extra and interest? You say that you have become truly rich and we see that this is not so, that all those who have become rich in Agrokor have become rich in the sweat and blood of the Croatian people, in the destruction of dairy, farmers, fruit farmers, winemakers, vegetables. Is it okay to build castles and buy Audi A6 and Rolex until suppliers were paid for their efforts and you paid them far below the price of monopoly cartel terms? How much did you give? 2 kuna for a kilo of pepper and 1.80 for a liter of milk. That's not how getting rich is moral. And that's one of the reasons why you can't be a minister in this government. And now not to mention these moves you're making, be careful, so you've abolished the flat-rate tax for small trades, you've abolished tax breaks, you've even tried to lift Vukovar's tax breaks, you've led the caterers to the fact that they have to close successful companies and businesses, you've abolished VAT on importing machines. So what do we need next to our domestic companies that survive on the market yet to lift VAT on imports? So what's the logic? And this measure you announced three days ago, that you would be cutting pensions for 500 kunas to pensioners who had been doing their job with honor for 40 years. And now you have them, and a pension of 3,000 kuna, and you allow them to retire for 500 kuna and to have 2500 kuna. And that's the measure you're offering to this people. Well, if you had done nothing else, under quotes, that's all you should be responsible for as minister to this Parliament and your people. Is that not the wrong policy, Mr. Maric? It's a crime against the Croatian people. To lower pensions for people who live and barely make ends meet and cannot afford basics such as treatment, travel, shorter and even food. Everything you know, and I told you that when you were bringing in the budget and forever borrowing me personally, my children and my grandchildren who would have to pay off the results of your budgetary and financial policy. The same thing you did in Agrokor, it'll happen to Croatia, it's only a matter of time before exactly. How did you know in Agrokor that the situation has gotten out of hand so you know that the situation will get out of control with Croatia but of course it does not worry you too much. Because you simply think in the worst banking mentality described by a brilliant Croatian memoryist Ante Ciliga and I can do whatever I want but in the end it will all end well. You see, Mr. Maric, not everyone who wants to know, who wants to think a little bit knows that the results of your policy are devastating and that you are not like being a finance minister. As we did not vote for you, neither during your appointment, for the first time or for the second time, so the Living Wall will not give you support this time because you simply do not deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37777	Now they're going to speak to Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37778	Dear colleagues, we are at a serious moment in Croatian history. However, while currently discussing the fate of a man who apparently holds the whole country hostage, like the former Karamarko, my desire is to say a few other things, which are essential things. What did Minister Maric do as Minister of Finance? He introduced a real estate tax. It's a key thing. So from 1.1 next year, citizens will be paying real estate taxes, too, will be paying construction rent. So their mid-stakes are going to be even bigger than they are now. 330,000 citizens are blocked. What did Minister Maric do for 330,000 blocked citizens? One big nothing. He's in pain. And you know why? That's what my colleague Bunjac explained. There is a big difference between the average citizen and Minister Maric. Minister Maric has a savings in three currencies, and it has a million dollars. He's got a limo waiting for him in front of the Parliament. It's got, his watch is worth 50,000 kuna, I don't even have an hour or so. etc. And now that you're telling such a person there's a problem, that people have nothing to pay the directors from, that they're digging through the trash, that they're being extricated from Masons like Hanžekovic, he's going to say what I care about. That's one general irresponsibility. And what did this government, led by Minister Maric, do as Minister of Finance? Ask yourselves. They've collected tolls, electricity, gas, everything's going up, ladies and gentlemen. The caterers raised Maric's VAT to 25%. Why isn't that what you're talking about? So there are no positive actions of this government. In the plan, how does Maric repay his debts? He's raising new loans, that's his program. As it used to be for the boss, credits were raised to get back to the old man. And now what's going on? Although MOST is now against Maric, unfortunately MOST is the one who has been supporting Maric's policy all along. So when the key moment comes, except for Mr. Mira Bulj, I take my hat off to him. When voting to increase VAT, MOST's hosts gave up their hands. When voting on the introduction of real estate taxes, MOST was in favour. And now what happens? The Most falls in ratings, his voter support falls, people see that there are no reforms for citizens to profit from. And now they're looking for Minister Maric's shift, and he's been good to them twice as a minister and they've backed that policy and HDZ. I have warned them from day one that HDZ is leading the Croatian country to ruin, and the Croatian people are disappearing from these areas with their policies. They did it twice anyway. Why? I ask my MOST colleagues what have you achieved in these two years of coalition with HDZ? What? Is there another positive shift that's been made in these two years? I'm afraid I don't see him. The only thing I know is that when I go into the assembly, I have to sign up with a card, but I don't know what the benefits of our citizens are. In other words, here not only means one man's problem, but also politics, and in essence MOST and HDZ have shown during these two mandates that they essentially share the same policy. Their politics are the same, only people are different, and that's the biggest tragedy in the whole story. Gone Mr. Maric or the rest, what about the real estate tax? He stays. Gone Mr. Maric or stayed, VAT hosts still 25%. However, although Mr. Maric and his policy do not support the vast majority of citizens, that is to be said publicly. So ask people if they think the country's going in the right direction. Most will tell you that he doesn't think that the country is going in the wrong direction will tell you. Ask most parliamentary deputies, they will tell you that they do not support Minister Maric. And the question arises why he is so barbarous about this chair from the most primitive motives. He does not care about the stability of Croatia and the well-being of citizens. It is a cruel and raw struggle for his chair in the same way that he defended himself and copied former Prime Minister Tim Oreshkovic, whom we sent to the castle of history. However, what is crucial, which connects Oreshkovic and Maric, connects them to the fact that they did not have the support of the Croatian Parliament. The parliamentary majority was against them. And then Oreshkovic defended himself, saying that the charges were false, that they were set up for him, etc. And then he said that HDZ was setting him up, and today you're saying not that everyone else is setting you up and HDZ is telling the truth. So ask yourself, Mr. Maric, what are the motives of the HDZ to keep you in that position if they know it's a risk, i.e. the government's fall, the new elections, and ultimately that you will never act again. Because with your knowledge and your experience that you have brought to the Croatian government from Agrokor, what good is that? What have you achieved for this Agrokor? So we see where Agrokor ended up. The company where you were executive director has failed. If you were the CEO of Enron or Parmalat or any other firm before the crash, would that be a reference to any government in the world? No, you wouldn't. But it would be in Croatia. And you know who supports you other than HDZ? You are supported by Ivica Todoric. I guess he's the only man who thinks you should stay. If you don't believe me, ask these young people, walk down the street. On the internet polls, 90% say you have to leave. So if reason serves you, ask people, walk in the square of Ban Jelačić, ask them, do you think I should go? And when you see 9 out of 10 people telling you to leave, you've done a lot of damage. Then will you leave? You won't because you have no shame. And unfortunately, those who are now speaking against you from the Most until yesterday were holding the lottery. Same thing as Karamark. At first, everything was great. When it came down, the Most fell on polls suddenly the Most turned against Karamark. However, Mr. Maric I invite you to, despite your pride and desire for position, power, function, all the privileges you have as minister, so you are now as a protected person, you have a driver of your 24 hours at your disposal, or several, etc., official card and whatever. I invite you to resign immediately and end this agony that will last until early morning. This debate will go on in a long time, people no longer have patience, and we no longer have patience. You think Mr. Maric can get us here to discuss you? We are tired of both you and HDZ, and unfortunately from the MOST who installed you in that position and who, together with HDZ, was celebrated and celebrated together, unfortunately. MOST's sitting with you right from HDZ, gentlemen, and together with them, celebrate and celebrate here until the next day. And now you're like angry enemies. It's all a farce, it's all a circus, it's all a game that can and must end as soon as possible. And I therefore call upon you to the moment the next day when there is a vote, when you see that you do not have the majority to acknowledge defeat and to honor your position as prime minister and call on the Prime Minister, that since there is no majority to call new elections and that finally this rotten policy of yours is over. And why is Plenkovic so afraid of new choices? Well, because he knows he doesn't want to co-ordinate with HDZ anymore. No colleagues from the MOST you double-crossed or us from the Living Wall. And whatever your result is, you don't have most of it, so be aware of it right now, you don't have a majority. Not that you don't have a majority, so your own people in your ranks say we don't support Plenkovic and that policy, to support your own people wouldn't be in that situation. But even your own members who have been elected through your HDZ list say that's a failed story, that's crazy, we won't support such a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37779	Thank you, Agent Pernar. The first part of the replica goes to the representative of Bunjec. Pedja Grbin's representative asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37780	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bunjac, I listened to your debate and you spoke at first about something that intrigued me a little, and that's what you were saying about how someone could pay off a loan, how someone could get a loan under these conditions. And I Googled a little bit, and I checked my resume, not the one who got the loan, but the one who gave the loan. And do you know who led the HPB the moment Mr. Maric sat there on the board of directors and got a loan that didn't belong to him? Mr. Cedo Maletić. And my colleague, Bunjac, I'm going to ask you now, do you know where Mr. Cedo Maletic is employed after he left HPB? You only have one shot. Of course in Agrokor at the boss's. Well, isn't that logical? But aside from all these interesting indications, indications and strange links and coincidences related to the career of fellow Marić, who will be removed tomorrow. But I'm going to talk about something that illustrates his work. HDZ colleagues have been jumping around this pay phone today, yelling about growth, development, etc. Last week, the government sent us a National Reform Plan that envisions certain macroeconomic tendencies for the next four years. They boast of the growth they achieved in 2016 and 2017 with which they have nothing because of the trends they have encountered and do not talk about what they projected and planned for 2018, 2019 and 202, and do you know what they planned? Every year, it grows smaller and smaller. Now, that's the growth of you HDZ gentlemen and of you, Minister Maric. Every year since you took the helm of smaller and smaller growth Not my word, but yours. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37781	The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37782	Thank you very much, Reverend Grbin, for giving us this useful information about Mr. Ceda Maletic because she needs Minister Marić because he usually knew nothing, and then here we are now taking the opportunity to inform him about what was going on. He knew nothing about it, of course, but he's very proud of everything he's done, no matter what he didn't have knowledge of. He says he's a doctor of science, and here's what he doesn't know. Well, now we could have informed him a little bit about all that. And it's logical that he ended up in Agrokor but he's not the only one who's moved from state service to Agrokor. Here we had the best banker in Europe, Governor Rohatinski, who sold all Croatian gold at eight times the value and now the only gold Croatia has is our wedding rings, and he became an adviser to Ivica Todorovic. And here's such a great man, he was his advisor, and the company failed. So how is that possible, all the great people in Agrokor, geniuses, and the company from year to year is getting worse? I don't know whether it's a problem in people who work in public services or is a problem in Agrokor or is obviously a problem in some ignorance that's constantly being mentioned, but the average citizen seems to have a very expensive connection. So someone has a 90% loan war, and someone can't get a war of credit higher than 1/3 of the salary without two guarantees, no bonds, no insurance policy, no mortgages and all other insurance instruments, so if Minister Maric got a loan of $13,000, his salary was supposed to be 39 grand. At least he didn't have that kind of salary formally on paper in his life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37783	Representative Marko Vučetic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37784	Comrade Bunjac, you have touched two problems in your presentation. The first problem is the individual résumé of Zdravko Marić in which we cannot and cannot enter, because that way we would institutionalize even monumentize his individuality and his individual truth is available to him. But what we can do, we must and we must enter, and that is this public biography and biography of the Ministry that he is headed. What he's been doing in his life I can't research and there are bodies for that. And cross that line of legitimacy to do so. But at the same time, it is quite clear to me, if we want to preserve the legitimacy of the parliamentary representatives, that we must warn the public that in the ministry headed by Minister Zdravko Maric that this is the ministry that has just been in an unauthorized contact with a systemically important company, Agrokor. She was to us a month ago, two depicted as a company whose future depends on the future of our economy. And that's why the minister is no longer in a legitimate position to behave in the ministry of duty. When I brought this Lex Agrokor, I was guided by the ethical principle, which is to help the workers. It was clear that these ethical principles had been conducted for the past 20 years so that the company would not fail. Whoever takes care of the workers and doesn't keep the workers at 2.5, 3,000 kunas he takes care of the future of this country. There was no concern about the future of this country, lex Agrokor was a way, a mechanism, or an instrument to prevent a failure of the economy and since there is there Minister Zdravko Maric no longer able to enjoy the public's trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37785	The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37786	Thank you very much. Your Honor, it is legitimate to question the property of politicians. For that reason, there are property cards. We get money from the state budget, big money, high wages from individual citizens, and it's normal for these property cards to be published and questioned by the public. If someone has a monthly salary of five thousand kunas, for example. and spends 50 thousand kunas monthly citizens have to wonder how he did it. Is it, maybe it's a magician and let him show us that trick because we'd like to spend 10 times as much as we make. So that's a question legally, no one of course the minister will ask anything about his private life as well as any other parliamentary representatives or politicians. And as for your handlifting for Lex Agror, what rots simply must fail. Mr. Todorovic had 30 years of opportunity to save the company, he had absolutely all the preconditions, from state support, from the support of the judiciary, from media support, from what is called all sorts of guessings. Here he had such top experts as Minister Maric and Governor Rohatinski, and if he failed to do business in a way that the property of Agrokora was bigger than the total debt, then the absolute problem is in him. And you simply had to let him fail or rescue workers only and only provided the boss moves and you, as you know, he is still a 100% owner of Agrokor and after a 15-month lex Agrokor he will return to director. This is what you in no way should have allowed, you had to set perfectly clear conditions before raising your hand for this shameful law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37787	Time's up, Mr. Bunjac. Representative Grozdana Peric answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37788	Dear Mr. Bunjac, when you are already checking your blood cells and everything that Minister Marić acquired and gained during his work, can you answer how you lived on your salaries, given your loans you have or is so normal that you with much lower income and with a profession that cannot make a lot of money can achieve so much property and he can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37789	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37790	Mrs. Peric, distinguished MPs, speak from the mouth of the HDZ that someone counts the blood cells simply sounds drowsy. So your party is the one who counts blood cells and hates all possible minorities in Croatia and generates all possible incidents that are filled with all the world's media and all the monitors that all the embassies are talking about. You really didn't need this kind of comparison. And as for the question of property, so you named Agent Pernar here for a bike, you called him for an apple and for his shoes, and you don't allow anyone to call for his Rolex, his Audi A6, for countless properties and savings, for loans that cross the salary level, which is done by a person who performs, beware now, no less than the function of the finance minister. So what kind of message does he send us if he can't calculate that his credit is higher than his salary? So God forbid the citizens follow that example and that they are in debt in this way. So can you really believe that someone who's so in charge of himself is able to save the state from debt, or not introduce the state into new debts? 172 billion kuna is the government's task plan for the next 3 years, 172 billion, so this would not support Austria's economy, let alone Croatia's economy. Such a budget, such projections will indeed be not only a doubt but a deep fear and mistrust. And we really need to ask ourselves whether it's time for us to move on in this country at all or whether we all run away together for hundreds of thousands of people who have already escaped.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37791	Thank you. Representative Bunjac, time's up. Representative Maria Jelkovac, has requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37792	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Bunjac injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure say that everyone at HDZ is so insulting that we all here hate national minorities and everyone else and we count all the blood cells, and therefore I ask you to warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37793	I honestly didn't hear that part, I may have overheard it, if that's what Mr. Bunjac said, then really the representative of the Bunjac doesn't have that right. If you have the opportunity to use it through both the Rules of Procedure and the appeal. Representative Petar Skoric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37794	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bunjac, listening to your exposure here, I can't come to myself from the amount of pulsism you bring here, the way you attack people who do their job. And on the other hand, the question of what you're offering as a political option, how you act. It turns out that anarchism is the only feature of your actions. So, here's where are your frames? How do they work? Why are your people running away from you? And obviously, so you act as one private party, a group of irresponsible anarchists. And in this way, hitting on a man who does his job is extremely irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37795	Representative Bunjac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37796	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Škorić, you are truly involved in saying something without having any content. In fact, it seems like you've been sitting on your ears in this House so far, and it's really no wonder, because we haven't seen you around here in the first place. Because if you'd come here, you'd know very well what the Living Wall program is about monetary and financial policy. So our programme is to take over the Croatian National Bank, weaken the exchange rate of kuna to increase exports, and reduce imports. The change of course of Governor Vujčić and therefore the release of sufficient cash into circulation to make the loans payable. And as for your demeaning that we don't have personnel, so here we have, in our coalition of the former Dean of the Faculty of Economics, we have Dr Vuletic, who is an expert in international law. We have in Osijek-Baranja County and the city of Osijek a docent of science, university professors for our candidates that you can meet in the upcoming elections. I'm also a doctor of science. I don't know how you're so confident that you claim that we're a group of dilettantes who don't know what they're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37797	Probably Mr. Bunjac forgot about the executive law, I guess in the program. The following replicas refer to the representative of Pernar. The first representative to report for the replica is Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37798	Dear colleague Pernar, you have been talking about how the Living Wall has been since the beginning against Minister Maric. I expect to see it tomorrow at the vote. Your candidate for mayor of Zagreb wrote one status on stability. I don't know now if he'll be against Minister Maric and will you give him up as a candidate if he doesn't come and vote tomorrow. The man on your list, Ivica Misic, has already made a statement that he supports the meaning of Minister Maric, that he is professional, that there is no speech about his need to be exempt from anything, that there is no conflict of interest. Practically your whole club is as far as I see it. Is there anyone besides you who will vote against Minister Maric? You're giving us something. When we make some kind of decision, we stand behind that decision, all of us. I'd like to see if tomorrow the SDP club will be unique in the motion it has launched? Will all MPs come and vote? Will your club vote for this? What's gonna happen to the other MPs? Here I see now colleagues from the IDS who attacked also lex Agrokor and everything else. And you know what happened when there was a vote on lex Agrokor? They shut down, they pulled the cards. I got all kinds of letters about IDS and Mr. Todorovic and all kinds of jobs in Istria that were going on. So, and Mr. Vrdoljak, who also constantly comes out with some kind of attack. Well, let's remember, it also means his connections to Agrokora and everything he said. Tomorrow, as the prime minister said, there's going to be a big disclosure tomorrow. And the disclosure has just begun.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37799	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37800	Thank you, esteemed colleague of the Grmoy. So I agree with you, the hardest man to experience is when his back turns to the people who were with him. However, I can say that even in our club, the Living Wall is currently four people. A colleague of Bunjac, Sincic, Alexic and I. The four of us will all appear here tomorrow, we will all vote for the recall of Minister Maric. Also, counterpart Ivan Lovrinovic from the partner club Change Croatia also said he would appear and vote for the recall of Minister Maric. And here I asked my colleague Schibol, he said he'd act on his conscience. And acting on your conscience, I assume you know that means it's also for impeachment. As for my colleague, Misic, I am sorry that he stepped on the dark side, I am sorry that he decided to support crime and corruption but it is his choice and that is why he will answer to his voters after the next election. As for fellow Lovrinovic, if he did not appear tomorrow at the vote and would not be a shift for Minister Maric's shift, I would be the first to ask that the coalition break up at the level of the city of Zagreb. Because I expect no less credibility from my colleagues and partners than I expect from myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37801	Representative Miro Bulj has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37802	Thank you very much. Representative Pernar, here's the whole time you're saying whether MOST did something or didn't do it. Of course, whoever takes responsibility, the responsibility to have thousands of mistakes, the responsibility no one can throw a stone at another. However, did you forget, when Vice President Martina Dalic announced the sale of HEP here, I immediately publicly objected, and it was obvious that it was a national issue to energy at this point, these are the dark sides that essentially managed this system and wanted to take over HEP. So here's you attacking MOST and in the case of the last government, you're talking about ratings isn't true, I'm when I'm talking about conflict of interest nothing less is Mrs. Dalic in conflict of interest than Mr. Karamarko or her husband is in the board of directors of the INA is just a different form, is there any consulting service here. So I always talked about it, warned, and MOST was the one who was trying to get all that stuff out. Nothing would come out about Agrokor, and I would still pump money into the system, and I'm personally talking about the CNB as the biggest problem,... criminal charges 21.4. against Boris Vujčić, his deputy and six other vice governors, criminal charges for bonds that were free of cover were essentially released, and governor i.e. has destabilised the entire monetary system and financial stability in this way. So we tried as hard as we could, but we're a small group. And I hope you recognize if it wasn't for MOST, you also have to know, you can talk about the ratings so that you wouldn't be in the Parliament today. We could shut up, raise our hands and keep everything going as it goes on. And now it was that former term, and you wouldn't be in Parliament right now. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37803	Time's up. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37804	I'm not saying you didn't do anything positive. There were some good initiatives, and that is undeniable, but what is essential is whether you held a ladder to the HDZ government all this time, means whether you were the famous quorum keepers and handlifters at the government's vote, when voting the budget, when amending the Tax Law or introducing taxes on real estate, increasing VAT to the hosts to 25%, etc.? And the answer is that 90% of you are and that's what's problematic. And you didn't object. If you'd said gentlemen of the HDZ then we disagreed with the real estate tax, we disagree with the fact that the electricity collects, that the highways collect, that you said then, we disagree with these wrong government policies, we're not gonna support it, I'm not gonna take your hat off. However, you are hypocritically supporting this wrong policy all the time, and then you are looking for the replacement of that man who carried it out. And he spent it how? Well, he didn't do it himself, he didn't Maric Palle himself in the world, he was doing all this stuff that I listed worse, like amending the Accounting, factoring, etc. With your help, with your hands, with your support. And now you want to put the blame for all that failed politics on him, and unfortunately, you yourself ran that policy together with him. You personally may not, but your other colleagues from the club did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37805	Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37806	counterpart Pernar, Minister Maric is not the cause of this farce he is only a cause because the same minister, Maric, did not mind the MOST when he was elected twice by the government, once in Oreskovic, the second time in this Plenkovic. It didn't bother them even when they voted Lex Agrokor, and it bothers them now that they should enforce the law they also voted. Twice, MOST entered the coalition with HDZ and came out twice. One time because of a conflict with Karamark, the second time now because of a conflict with Plenkovic, both times with the same reason, HDZ encourages crime. Well, we've known HDZ in the SDP for 25 years, and we've been saying it for 25 years. Well, look, kittens look up after three to four weeks, and MOST never sees through. They do not insist with HDZ, insisting on those who encourage crime and insist on encouraging crime. And now what happens? Maric will fall, this government will fall, there will be no majority, there will be elections. Petrov will again sign a statement with the public notary that he will not be with HDZ, the result of the elections will be about the same as it was and then because of the authorities and those chairs that are allegedly so disgusted, again in the HDZ and MOST coalition. All the problems in this country are caused by the two parties, one that encourages crime, and the other that finds that this is the only one that promotes crime when it comes to chairing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37807	Mr. Šipic's representative is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37808	Your Honor, Mr. President, we've heard all sorts of things today at the expense of the HDZ and us, the 238th Mr. article. Nobody even warned you this morning while you were throwing everything and everything, so let me finish. Article 238 Mr. Stazic in all his praises on account of one sentence encourages crime. Who encourages crime? And what are you, Mr. Trainer, instigating all these years? What you've done with your merits, even in the theater, has fueled your hatred for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37809	Agent Pernar, please don't take my job, I'll react. Mr. Pernar, please, you can't be warned for a reason, thank you for being warned, and for the rest you have the possibility of a replica. I would also ask... /Speakers speak at the same time./... Representative Šipić please do not ask that I must begin to share your warnings. Thank you. Representative Stazic, someone would say we have a problem with authority, not loyalty. The answer to the replica is Agent Peranar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37810	Thank you. When Mr. Stazic said the HDZ was soaked in crime, so he did not say it at the end of the day, so it is known in court that the HDZ is being tried as a criminal organisation, a treasurer, Mr. Barisic, your former prime minister and party president Ivo Sanader and a whole gallery of figures and penitents. Well, everybody knows that. Unfortunately, so do colleagues from the Most. And they kept thinking there was a problem in a man. So, like HDZ, he threw all the guilt away and threw it at Ivo Sanader. Ivo Sanader is guilty, he's a thief and we're all honest people. That's what Jadranka Kosor said. Then MOST went into business with Karamark, then they said, no, no, we're not against HDZ, the problem is one man, Tomislav Karamarko. Okay, let's get Karamark out of here and then we'll go back with that same HDZ, except one of the heads is decapitated, the other one's been decapitated, and then again, like again, the HDZ has disappointed us. And on this occasion I want to tell my colleagues from MOST, the problem is not one man, Andrej Plenkovic, the problem is HDZ, this corrupt and morally corrupt political being, the political entity that leads the whole country to ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37811	Mr. Pernar, I'm warning you don't say that, I would say that equally if you were talking about SDP, HDZ and any other party. I'd like to ask you not to generalize, if you have certain evidence of something to turn them right towards that person. Here, I'd like to ask that we stay on that level. I just don't know if Nenad Stazic is calling us anywhere. And I think he's got a problem with that. Representative Sasa Djujic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37812	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pernar, you said in your presentation, speaking to Minister Marić that you from the MOST who spoke against you until yesterday had been held by the loytres. You repeated that several times in your discussions now and the replicas and that's true, that's true. You see, MOST colleagues have twice brought HDZ to power in this country, they've had lotterys all this time, they've held the lottery to Minister Maric by supporting tax reform, supporting the increase in VAT to hosts, introducing a tax on first real estate. And now they throw dust in the eyes of Croatian citizens like them fighting crime in Agrokor. And you see colleagues from MOST just 15 days ago, 20 days ago, they raised their hand to that Lex Agrokor, they raised their hand for a law that allowed HDZ to continue through the government of Andrej Plenkovic by still naming a special government commissioner, and they're still messing with this Agrokor, and they're still running politics there for the last 20 years the same and now they're being made when the pumpkin broke, now they're big anti-corruption fighters. Well, you see, gentlemen, you of the MOST have not initiated the recall of Minister Maric. We of the SDP have initiated the impeachment of Minister Maric because we have seen that he is in conflict of interest. Based on things that were known and when lex agrocor was brought in. We also warned then that Mr. Maric was in an apparent conflict of interest and had to leave. You didn't mind raising your hand for Lex Agrokor. And now that we have initiated the recall of Minister Maric's departure, you are now the greatest moralist and you are calling us from the SDP as we vote. We will vote for Minister Maric's recall tomorrow. We also launched the recall of Tomislav Karamark because of the conflict of interest, not you MOST gentlemen, but us. And you have supported our initiative and we have twice brought down two incompetent governments and Croatian citizens can no longer be hostages of HDZ and MOST. Give more vote call, let's go again and the citizens will recognize this time, you can't double-cross them Thank you very much, President. [[Adversity President: Representative Sasa Djujic timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37813	I hope you'll be equally sharp both tomorrow and next. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37814	Comrade Djujic, I would like to tell you a story of a man named Ivica Medvedec from Pusca. I don't know if you know his fate, the man at the instigation of the state went into business, he did, that's all. He went to work for a pig farm and you know how he ended up? It's a classic story. It's a home run. I was with him at an auction in a court of law in Zapresic, and he's in for a mirage. Why? Because the bank asked him to have the loan guarantee be his house, even though he was taking credit for the job. However, when HBOR gave Christmas credit to Ivica Todorovic, Agrokor, their former employee led the HBOR and he gave the loan without any real insurance, maybe 10% was just covered by a mortgage. Why didn't Mr. Maric tell Boss Ivica Todorovic, gladly Mr. Todorovic, we'll give you a loan but put a mortgage on your castle. He didn't tell him that. He didn't tell him for a reason, and he gave him that loan for a reason. And not just that. He moved that financial reports for the past year are given a month later for the end of April instead of the end of March. There's been a lot of changes to the factoring law so they don't get into HANFA surveillance. It's a whole series of indicators that make up one piece of evidence together. Here's another example. It's an example of him as a minister getting a privileged loan. Why would someone take a loan on a million kuna if he has a million kuna savings and the interest on savings is less than the interest on credit. So the logic of things says it's worth more to use the savings than to raise a loan but he's a bad finance minister and he has no idea about the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37815	Agent Pernar, thank you, your time is up, I'm sorry, but use that for the next line. It's out of lines. The next Club of Representatives to report for participation, on behalf of the Proposer. Excuse me, on behalf of the motionor, he has asked for the SDP's Club of Representatives to speak for them by representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37816	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We think we need to sum up a little bit of what's being said today. I'll start with what my colleague Stazic said earlier and he was right. Minister Maric and all that is happening around him today is the result of HDZ's 27-year policy, a policy of fostering conflicts of interest at all levels. And for the last year and a half with a great assistance from MOST. Minister Maric is not the cause, he is only a cause and a consequence. The real cause is the continuous closing of the eyes to what happens in the Republic of Croatia whenever HDZ is in power, which is a conflict of interest. I've been listening to discussions between my colleagues and my colleagues from HDZ this morning, better said replicas, and I need to give you a confession. You've done a fantastic job sticking your head in the sand, you've fantastically done an escuiting out of everything that's important. You've done fantastically avoiding the answer to absolutely every question you've been asked, and that's why I'm going to take this opportunity to ask you again. And if you can replicate it for me, please try to answer at least one of them. The first question I ask you is whether it is okay for ministers in a potential conflict of interest not to ask, in accordance with their clear legal provision, the Committee on the Decision on a conflict of interest whether they are in a conflict of interest and whether they are allowed to make decisions. Do you think it is right that the ministers against whom the proceedings are being conducted before the Committee for conflict of interest and violation of principles and laws still decide in such proceedings. Dear colleagues and colleagues, do you think it's okay for the prime minister to close his eyes to such a conflict of interest and instead of sanctioning the minister who brought his credibility into question the sanctioners of those who point to a violation of the law? My colleagues and colleagues, answer my question, is it okay to hire external lawmakers who will afterwards be engaged by extraordinary managements in companies for which these laws are written? But more than anything, colleagues and colleagues, answer my next question. Would any of you, and all of us sitting here as state officials, would either of you take advantage of the situation to sit on a public-owned company's Supervisory Board to secure a privileged loan for yourself? Please answer this question for me. For some of you I know the answer, I know for some others, but none of you had the courage to come here today and say would you take advantage of the position of sitting on the National Bank Supervisory Board, that a loan would come under more favourable conditions than all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia can? Would you use your position to get a lower-interest loan than that bank was paying for citizens' deposits at the time? Would you take advantage of your position to take credit for the loss of a bank? That's what my colleagues and colleagues in HDZ answer me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37817	Representative Nenad Stazic asked for the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37818	That's right. If it weren't for Minister Marić's cause for conflict would have been found elsewhere, about me thinking for six months because HDZ and MOST are such two parties that have actually entered one ideological marriage. So MOST had a chance for the SDP to form both stable and fair power, and stable and fair after those elections before these extraordinary ones. They didn't want to. They took power under the HDZ tent. That's where the heart got them. Maybe that's where they belong. Maric, Minister Maric, Minister Maric, forgive me. Minister Maric has a chance to understand that he is holding the whole country hostage at the moment. It is a great responsibility, whether it be his subjective guilt or not, whether he is fully convinced that he is right and that he has done nothing wrong. The responsibility of causing a crisis like this over one man is a great burden. His honesty, his patriotism, if you will, his humanity, his character, he can show in one way that he resigns, not replaces him. To resign, to understand and not to keep the whole country in crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37819	Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37820	Thank you, Mr. President. You're right. Anyone in the position of Mr. Maric who was loyal to the party who proposed him, who was loyal to the prime minister who proposed him to the post, would resign and avoid all that was happening. But Mr. Maric didn't do it. Why? The question is which neither you nor I know the answer to. However, you were wrong only when you spoke about it. You're right when you were talking about the MOST's behavior. This morning, I listened very carefully to my colleague, Mr. Maric, defending him, using the moment to question Mr. Maric's credibility in a way that he called him out of tax reform. And be careful, he spoke in tax reform this is no good, tax reform is no good. And you know the only thing he didn't mention? That these tax reforms wouldn't have been if MOST hadn't voted for what Minister Maric puts on burden at the moment. Yes, colleague Stazic, Minister Maric has his own stones. Those criminals are big. He's got to go on about it. There's no doubt about it. There is no doubt in the parliament, there is no doubt among Croatian citizens. But in all the things that we are in today's crisis, the mess, the unhappiness, the instability in it, Minister Maric is not alone. Many have helped him, but many have helped him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37821	Representative Majda Buric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37822	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you have mentioned Mr. Greene's consequences and consequences, but what you forgot to say is that this is not a cause and the consequences is a purely orchestrated attack on Mr. Maric, it is a mobing and violence exclusively for the purpose of destabilising, chaos and destruction. And all over the back of a man whose moral and professional and scientific and political dignity is unquestioned. On the other hand, what you've shown yourself is that you'll forgive everything, but you won't succeed, and it's unfortunate that a man is resented just because he's successful and professional. What you should be wearing a hammer and driving to Stoadina, instead of telling Maric any minute, you've brought public finances to a level they haven't been to in a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37823	Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37824	I thank you, Mr. President. HDZ is successful in just a few things, one of them is avoiding giving a clear answer to a clear question. Dear colleagues, I asked you if you had been sitting on the board of state-owned banks, would you have used that position to secure your privileged loan? A simple question that answers yes or no. Of course you didn't answer that. I was wondering, I saw that other colleagues from your club came forward, and I was wondering if they would have been in a position to sit on the watchdog board of a company owned by the Republic of Croatia used what they were sitting there to get a privileged credit that citizens and citizens of the Republic couldn't get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37825	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37826	Dear colleague of the SDP, I ask for your help, and I ask for your help for a simple and modest reason. To us, Maric presents himself as a respected expert in economics, so please explain what economic logic is if he has savings for, say, 2% interest of a million kuna and raises a loan for a million kuna per 4% interest, in order to get the same money. So he's losing 2% doesn't make sense. And the other thing, ask yourself, while many other people are paying for the interest loans, they're crushed by those illegal RBAs of Austrian cooperatives, which are Swiss francs, etc. Despite millions of savings, Minister Maric is taking a preferential loan. So I have a lot, I have a Rolex, I have a real estate I don't even know how much, I have millions of savings, I have an Audi A6, it's not enough for me. I need help, I need a privileged loan, I don't need some young family's privileged loan, no, not ladies and gentlemen. Why do they need priority? No, the HDZ programme is to take away those who have little and what little they have, and those who have much to be given more. And that moral freak she's not here today, and that chair is empty, he ran away, because he has no responsibility and no shame, and he doesn't want to hear what we have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37827	I've already warned you once, and I'd like you to hold on to that. The dictionary you have now used, regardless of what it is, is not appropriate. Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37828	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pernar. You were talking about a great expert before I replicated your colleague Bunjc, I showed you how great an expert it is. So, the national reform programme they are forecasting, envisioning a slowdown in the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia in 2018, 2019 and 2020. The convergence plan adopted with the national reform plan, as predicted, provides for fewer pensions for all of us who are currently younger than 55 years of age. And you mentioned helping young families, this was about a housing loan. And do you know what about this famous tax reform that I mentioned earlier, what was abolished in that tax reform, which we of the SDP Representatives Club have tabled an amendment which, thanks to the question not adopted because it is completely irrelevant, which has been abolished, a tax relief has been lifted for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who buys the first real estate needed for his housing. For the minister privileged credit, and for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37829	Representative Mato Frankovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37830	Dear fellow coat of arms. So I would like to answer your question about the conflict of interest or whether a colleague Maric is eating in a conflict of interest. So if you had read the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia then it clearly writes to you, so Dr. Zdravko Maric, after taking office as Finance Minister, repeatedly clearly communicated that he would be exempt from making decisions concerning Agrokor, precisely because of the fact that he spent some time as their employee. And the correctness of such treatment was confirmed by the chairman of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest, Mrs Dalia Oreskovic. It is clear, therefore, that Minister Maric has conscientiously acted and has only excluded himself in the Agrokor case. And as for Minister Maric's responsibility for financial or knowledge or not knowledge of what is happening in Agrokor, the fact is that while Minister Maric was an employee of Agrokora's credit rating Agrokora was at B level, with stable prospects. Let's talk about the real facts. It is also clear that audit firms, investors or credit institutions and neither rating agencies which regularly analysed and audited business and financial reports expressed no doubts as to the accuracy and credibility of the data contained therein. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37831	Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37832	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleague, if I didn't know which party you were from right now, I'd have guessed. And you know why? Because you didn't answer any of the simplest questions, would you as a state official if you were on the board of directors of a state-owned bank take advantage of that fact to secure a privileged loan for yourself? Your fear of answering that question gives me the right to conclude that it probably would, because it's something that colleagues from your party do. When they find themselves in a position where they can use their position and powers your colleagues often do, not everyone, not everyone, I will never tell everyone because there are honorable exceptions to you, but many do. ... No, you don't need to, Mr. President. I can handle them. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[I beg you...]] Your Honor, Mr. President. [[Incursion President: I ask you parliamentary representatives, parliamentary representatives.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37833	Parliamentary representatives, I would ask you, I would ask you to hold on to your peace, if we have endured, I would pray that if we held out until 4 p.m. then don't make me have to share my warnings at 4 p.m. and all the next sentences that may come in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37834	Thank you, Mr. President. So you didn't answer the simple question, I saw more of your colleagues answer the line, one of them was the secretary of state at the same time as counterpart Maric, I guess he'll have the courage to answer that simple question. However, when we talk about the Committee on Conflict of Interest, Mr Maric was of 26.1. when he first commented on Agrokor which he should not have done several times. In the second month he says, and I'm going to exclude myself, I shouldn't decide, then he's commenting at 3 months, so when the press says he shouldn't decide, he says, so I won't, I won't comment on it, and then what do we come up with? April 10th, Your Honor, Mr. President, for my colleague's intervention, I deserve at least 30 seconds. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]] Thank you. [[The President's incursion: 10 seconds.]] And then 10.4. votes for the extraordinary administration. And has he ever asked the committee for an opinion? It's not. No, he's not a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37835	Thank you. Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37836	It's hard when a man becomes a wolf, this today goes beyond really some limit of good taste, some kind of hunting on someone's head justifies everything that's said, really beneath every level of normal behavior and normal argument. What do we have today? The most severe are two MPs, one has seven credits, the other has four credits, and they attack someone with two credits. As some joy to have a loan, to be in charge, to return, it's... a crime to someone who runs finances in the Republic of Croatia, to have a loan. And that we caught interest rates. So this one has four loans, 5.24, 4.95, 8.45, 6.50, three loans raised at Erste Bank. Are you aware in the SDP that these loans as well as your former prime minister's loans have been raised in that bank, so someone from that bank has just become the head of the H.P.B., are you familiar with those facts? Are you familiar with the fact that you've landed tens of millions of kunas to some kind of HPB privatisation consultants? Where did those money end up? Who did they go to? What are you, caught, conflict of interest, is this some sort of direct court in Croatia? Is their last. Well, we've heard recently from a jurisprudence that conflict of interest may take 15 days if it is the leader, former leader of a party, your former prime minister. Since the conflict of interest has a time limit. You were 15 days old and you weren't, if you were 16 then you'd be. Gentlemen, let's get serious, this is a very sensitive moment. But this bounty hunt with no arguments below is every level, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37837	Representative Boric, time is up. Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37838	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleague Boris, I think I was very clear in my presentation, I tried to speak in literary Croatian and I asked questions that were very simple to answer with yes or no. I'm glad you've replicated to me because you were a secretary of state, you were a state secretary in an extremely interesting ministry, the Ministry of Infrastructure at a time when the minister was Mr. Kalmeta and as Mr. Maric, you probably didn't see anything going on either because that's what happens with you, with your party colleagues. But despite everything you haven't seen, you didn't hear anything, you didn't know anything, you didn't answer my simplest possible question, would you fellow Boric have been sitting on the board of directors, banks owned by the Republic of Croatia used your position to provide credit under much more favourable conditions, it was 375 thousand kuna that will remain in Mr Maric's pocket, 375 thousand kuna? So, would you use your position as a state official to secure a loan under more favourable conditions than could the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Like neither of your colleagues, nor any of your colleagues who spoke before you from your club, nor did you answer this question to me. Thank you for that, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37839	Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37840	Thank you, Mr. President. You have caused great anxiety in the HDZ order of conflict of interest, which is very understandable. So if we look at the history of HDZ from the '90s to the 2017 period from '90s to 2000, the period from 2003 to 2011 and these last year the only thing that ever happened is a conflict of interest. So it's a party where deeply there's always a conflict of interest. They can't function without conflict of interest. How much they cannot function without conflict of interest we also see how they treat the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest where the recently potential president they want to install for this speaker here threatened the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest when they expressed their position on the conflict of interest here present Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Dalic. So they can't function without conflict of interest and their community is actually a community of networked conflicts of interest. And of course, if officials sit on boards of state-owned companies for which they cannot receive compensation, it is absolutely unacceptable to have any material benefit. And every official in this House should know that. And that's why SDP officials certainly wouldn't take such a privileged loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37841	Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37842	Do you know what's interesting to my colleague Jovanovic? It is interesting that our colleagues and colleagues in the HDZ order are bothered when the Committee on Conflict of Interest initiates proceedings against the current Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Dalic, and they are very pleased with the work of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, when it says that because it took office only in 2012 it cannot assess the conflict of interest that occurred in 2010 during the old law. So when the decision is in favour of the HDZ, then the Commission is good at deciding on a conflict of interest, and when the decision against the HDZ is then the commission suddenly becomes some sort of direct court whose case cannot be the last. However, the HDZ's attitude towards institutions is not only seen in the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. The public may not know, but I know very well that you are a respected colleague of Jovanovic already seems to me about a year and a half at the head of an important parliamentary working body. Do you know what kind of work body that is? It is a body that is responsible for overseeing the Anti-Corruption Council of the Croatian Parliament's Anti-Corruption Strategy. And the Anti-Corruption Council of the Croatian Parliament cannot work for more than a year because you ladies and gentlemen from the ruling majority insist on choosing its members. For a year and a half, Croatia does not have a body that should be involved in monitoring the Anti-Corruption Strategy, because you do not want to choose it from colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37843	The following was requested by a government official, Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37844	So here's a representative of the coat of arms felt the need to sum up some of the debate that was being held during the day, so I think maybe we should sum up the debate a little bit and sum up some of its essential features. One of them spoke of tax reform as the great crime of Finance Minister Maric. The result of this tax reform that is being implemented today and the results that all Croatian citizens feel today and all Croatian entrepreneurs are paying lower taxes, that they are all paying lower income tax, that more than 500 000 citizens as a result of this tax reform are excluded from the income tax in general. The result of the tax reform is that Croatian entrepreneurs also pay lower income tax. The result of this tax reform is also an increase in income tax deductions for children. These are all the results of the tax reform you were talking about here. These are all the results that are meant to benefit Croatian citizens and the benefit of Croatian entrepreneurs because they care about the citizens and entrepreneurs of the government's tasks and every member of it. That doesn't suit you SDP colleagues. It does not suit you that the government has taken and done what the finance minister has specifically done to make Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs benefit from economic policy. You're involved in political larpurartism and cheap politics. Also, the second point at which it is important to sum up today's debate is the Law on the Extraordinary Administration of the so-called lex Agrocor. The consequence of this law is that 50,000 people who are employed in companies that form Agrokor receives pay because the system has been blocked. This government proposed to the Croatian Parliament and, with the support of the Croatian Parliament, stopped the business and way of business of Ivica Todorovic. And that's the result of this law. The result of this law is that more than 2,000 suppliers received payment for goods and services after several months of non-payment. I believe that among these 50,000 employees in the Agrokor system and among these suppliers and among those suppliers who are receiving payments today, payments for goods and services they have delivered there are also your voters. I really can't understand why anyone's in the interest of you and the results of the law I'm talking about not being realized. I can't understand that. And I can't understand why you put petty politics above the interests of your voters. Therefore, I think that in these discussions and in this debate that is being held here, we should take into account and not lose sight of what is the point, what is the purpose of the policy, which is to work on the benefit of the citizens, to work for the benefit of the citizens. Because my colleague Grbin, what's my biggest salary for working on the Emergency Administration Act, is to enter the Konzum and hear a good day from the employees who work there. Can you, after discussions like this that you question the existence of these people, calmly go to Konzum and say good day to these people?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37845	Thank you. Representative Bojan Glavasevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37846	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Dalic, Minister Dalic, of all the things you said, you were not at all concerned with the metrics the prime minister likes to mention. And the measure here is deeply related to conflict of interest. And you did not mention the conflict of interest for a very clear reason, because you are the last person to talk about it because your conflict of interest compared to that conflict of interest, Minister Maric, is incomparably greater. And not only about Agrokor but also about INA. You might be embarrassed to be here and not mention it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37847	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37848	You know why I didn't mention it, because I knew one of you would answer so I could answer you directly. My so-called. A conflict of interest in INA, which would be based on my so-called The conflict of interest in INA? Who am I with in the conflict of interest in the INA? Perhaps with Hungarian MOL, only as vice-president of the Croatian government with Hungarian MOL, who for the past eight years has management rights in INA and whose management rights in INA have resulted in a 50% reduction in INA reserves in 47% of INA revenue reductions from 2009 to today. Yes, I am the vice-president of the Croatian government in a conflict of interest in INA in a deep conflict of interest with a shareholder who in an inadequate, inappropriate way manages INA. Because don't forget the Hungarian MOL is a shareholder, but also one who has management rights in that company. Therefore, when you talk about my conflict of interest in the INA, yes, he is only Hungarian MOL and I admit it and I will repeat it every time and as Deputy Prime Minister, I will do everything possible to make this situation change so that INA and its 11 thousand employees get their long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37849	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37850	Minister, you've been talking about tax reforms, you know that the lack of property with a smaller number of years that was up to 2005 means if you can understand what illegally acquired property was about, in 2005 it was back to six years, and every year it shrinks that it obviously happened somewhere, someone. I personally did not vote in favour of tax reform, and there was favoured openly by those who robbed and who acquired their property illegally. Do you understand that message? Secondly, as far as I know you were Minister of Finance, is it possible for you to know that the Minister of Finance in the most difficult economic crisis is to exempt himself from the key important Croatia after the Homeland War, not taking its expertise and ability of course, probably the man has the competences that you are confirming, but he has excluded himself at the most difficult moment Croatia from the Homeland War due to the system. And you were the finance minister, because of the system that enabled Todorovic, Gregoric, Lukovic, you must know these people, they allowed one man to take over the entire system and hold the whole of Croatia by the throat. And the finance minister says at that point that I'm being excused, and 20 days before he talks, not everything's okay in Agrokor. Did the other crisis ministers in Agrokor know? Did he meet you, you're the Deputy Prime Minister or you're the Prime Minister, so maybe you know better. Absolutely you as finance minister must have known, and now he and Lalovec have not entered Agrokor's tax inspection and what's happening is not financial instability. And in the case of the National Bank, we could talk about stability, but I don't have time. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37851	Representative Bulj, thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37852	When you mention 2005 then I understand that you are actually talking about a deadline until the Tax Administration can open proceedings backwards and how much I understand by amending the General Tax Code that deadline is reduced from 2005 to six years as an absolute limitation period. I would not agree with you, Mr. Bulj, that here and in any way it is suitable for anyone or anything, because the possibility of moving backwards for six years is quite enough for any tax fraud to be discovered and then for them to be without an age-old deadline. This limit since 2005, as I recall, was introduced, I think I was a representative, so it was introduced somewhere in 2012 and '13. And now I'm asking you, in that period since 2005, since that border was established which and how many crimes were discovered. So I think, I think that fixing that year actually doesn't in any way affect the possibility of detecting tax fraud or the possibility of operating the tax administration. What I'd also like to say to you is that there's been a lot of talk about lately, so you're also calling for me to be Minister of Finance. The tax administration is acting and entering tax control based on a risk analysis and will normally draw attention to those who do not pay taxes. When the tax administration enters any company [[President: Time's up, if you can...]] Its task is to examine whether tax is paid rather than whether the company has financial instability. [[Intruder president: Here, 3 words.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37853	Thank you. Representative Zeljko Lenart has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37854	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mrs. Dalic, here's the minister for me, i.e. Mr. Maric, as a human being, is sorry to go through like this, but as a minister, no, because when he caught up with that job, he had to know that he could be welcomed by what he was waiting for today. You mentioned a tax reform that brought you some good ones. Maybe he's in that circle of people you hang out with. Well, for example, Mr. Todorovic could buy a cheaper helicopter than before tax reform and so many others. 63% of people say the state is going the wrong way. And that's the result of tax reform. Did tax reform bring in well-blocked, completed, unemployed? They didn't even feel it. Many entrepreneurs have closed their companies and gone to Germany with bread, Ireland, or elsewhere because of this good tax reform. Well, I'm not quite sure that tax reform was meant for all entrepreneurs, I think it was meant for far more to some than Agrokor and Agrokor knows why it was made, why HDZ designed it there in the early '90s so that everyone could live on that titty for a long time, and now that there's no more to suck now there's a big problem for the Republic of Croatia. And then this political crisis in our Croatian Parliament will eventually be paid again by the Croatian people who will have to pay it all out of their small taxes. How we've all been deceived. One banal example is toll, it's said to go by 5% will collect toll and I ask you how much percent is up 5%, everywhere is 10, maybe more, and I don't count any further because I don't have time. Tax reform is like Superhik taking the small and giving the rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37855	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37856	But now you've made a series of phrases, like on one of the commercial televisions the other day, we've had a convenient opportunity to see how the SDP president's phrases were collected, and so is what you've collected in your tax reform. But when I already have two minutes, a few words about how tax reform helps the blocked. Tax reform helps blocked by reducing business costs and increasing the purchasing power of the population contributes to economic growth. Economic growth contributes to the creation of new jobs and this ensures that even those who are blocked can find a job, can get paid and can be freed from this position that I recognise and accept is not easy, it is not easy and I feel for all of these people. But the task of the Croatian government is to ensure that people can work, that they can make money, that they can have the opportunity to find employment. And that's what this government is dealing with.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37857	Representative Sasa Djujic will report for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37858	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Dalic, Minister, you discussed the results of the tax reform in your address. I'll do it again here. The results of the tax reform are that our caterers today pay twice as much tax as they paid by New Year's Eve. The results of this tax reform are that we, as a Mediterranean country whose economy is mostly based on tourism, are paying the largest VAT in our entire environment. The results of the tax reform are that young families have been paying first-real taxes since the new year. The results of this tax reform are collected cinema tickets by 25%, it's the only place where young families could go with their children, get a rest from you and us. Now they have to pay 25% more. The results of this tax reform are higher salaries for the richer, for you sitting in government and for us sitting in the Parliament and no increase in those poorest. Secondly, you said that employees in Konzum after lex Agrokor you greet with a good day. Well, you see, Mrs. Dalic, after your conversation with Mr. Vice-President of the HGK, I thought that you employees in Konzum welcome Jesus with praise because you were the best answer to Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce's question, I will now quote you, which in the context of Lex Agror asked you whether everything was settled now. You have your answer, “Yes, you can imagine, we now rely on St. Ant” to best say what this law is. And that doesn't need to be commented anymore. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37859	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37860	About the caterers paying double the tax. Part of the caterer pays a higher rate of value added tax. What is the tax they can pass on to their consumers and clients. And I have to say, and I think we all have to agree that the issue of going to the cafes isn't necessarily good. Then, these same hosts have the opportunity especially to enjoy lower tax rates on profits. So no more 20 than 12%. Well then, some more changes have been made to the laws that act on increasing and the possibility of transport, so how much is the tax liability in that respect at the end. Young families. So here in the Croatian Parliament is the Law on incentives for the lending of young families, which is, of course, waiting to be discussed, because here for days now, here are the topics we are discussing today, discussing whether tax reform has helped or not, when it is white that it is. And as for St. Ante, I must tell you that the Croatian people respect St. Antu and that it is a great saint for the Croatian people, and that day I must remind you, too, was Tuesday, and on Tuesdays it fasts for St. Antu. Well, you've got to get a little bit of guidance on those questions, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37861	Representative Sabina, I'd like you to refrain from commenting. You have the ability to use replicas. I'd like to ask counsel Pusic! Representative Sabina Vosovac reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37862	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Dalic, I didn't mean to rephrase it, but when you presented the claim that tax reform doesn't match us from the SDP, because in your words, we don't see how much it actually helped our citizens and entrepreneurs. Yes, I believe our citizens are delighted that you're introducing a real estate tax that you called a dangerous hack and a brutal attack on all Croats yesterday. You probably forgot that in that collective sense of amnesia. I believe that our guests are also thrilled that you have doubled their taxes to those who wear Croatian tourism. I believe that enthusiastic low-income workers and low-income pensioners who received absolutely nothing from tax reform. The young are also thrilled that you decided to tax their purchase of the first property. And what you're saying now is that you compensate them by subsidizing the loan, give them the money! You took 125 million kunas through 4% of the first real estate tax, and through this measure you intend to repay only 17,5 million and subsidize only 1000 families, and in this way by abolishing the tax relief for all families that buy the first real estate, you have actually reached a much, much larger number than those 1,000. With your tax reform, I can only be satisfied with the rich and the big. And I really don't think we're the only ones who are unhappy and who don't respond to this tax reform. A large part of Croatian citizens are unhappy. And what he can tell you is really what Bravo Government, bravo HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37863	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37864	Look, I didn't say that the SDP tax reform that brings all these effects to Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs isn't responding, that's what you said. And I'm just distracting you to think a little bit about the relationship between politics, political larpurartism and what's going on in reality. Just one sentence. The minimum wage has been raised by the government in one step more than during the entire four years of SDP's mandate, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37865	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37866	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was born on St. Antu's already at St. John's. Ante. Oh, no? So you know, 13.6. But that doesn't mean everyone's gonna like my replica. What I wanted to ask you is glad you came. It is one of the allegations from our appeal for impeachment where it is very clear that, when the loan was granted, HBOR Minister Maric was in our interest in conflict. He said himself he'd made it up. Since you are the Vice-President of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, here I am particularly interested in whether you have ever spoken to Minister Maric about HBOR loans that should be awarded here by the end of last year. And on the other hand, the question is which is asked as very logically as the procedure of granting these loans has passed since only 2 months later it became clear that Agrokor in that sense was no longer a member of the operation. So we're like a state, and you're like the deputy chairman of the Supervisory Board, which means the most responsible when Maric is excluded. Two months before the collapse of the system itself, you assigned 400 million kuna to companies in the Agrokora system which are also burdened we saw with various previous arrangements financially. And what raises the very clear question of how these loans could have been granted in the first place, which is why the HBOR gave these loans and which was essentially Mr. Zdravko Marić's role because it's almost incredible that the people of HBOR would not have informed him in one word. that such requests have come and they are being prepared for the Supervisory Board. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37867	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37868	We're Mr. Maras, I think we've already discussed this issue on one previous occasion, so I'll repeat. So as far as these loans are concerned at 12 months on the HBOR Supervisory Board, they are approved by the Yamni, PIK Vrbovac, Ledo and Star. They were approved in the standard procedure, given that their amount required the consent of the Supervisory Board and were approved on the basis of the documentation to be supplied to the Supervisory Board in this respect. Well, then, in that paperwork, for example. According to the revised financial statements for 2015, the client is given a rating 1, practically no risk, according to brackets. The company is low in debt and most of the credit obligations relate to loans from related companies. Then Jamica d.d. e.g. is today the largest Croatian producer of mineral spring water, the largest export potential carries water, the share of exports in total revenues is moving around 13%, etc. I also writes in this material taking into account the fact that full business with all four companies in view of the complexity of mutual business should be seen in the context of the entire Agrokor concert, characterised by a significant growth in activity with the strengthening of the market position in the region, a continuous investment cap, a low pay-off capacity which is the primary factor in the low credit rating of Agrokor Group, a financial instability looking at the manual structure, nominal indifference, and a lack of working capital. But also respecting the fact that credit users represent the feathers of the mentioned concert leaders in each of their fields of action, and... /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Time out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37869	The Minister's time is up, I apologize. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to watch your time, please. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37870	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So some will say that this is a cunning move that the prime minister sent Mrs. Dalic to defend Minister Maric because we have now turned a little bit of attention from all those sins of Minister Maric. However, I would say it is a very cynical move because who better to defend the minister in a conflict of interest than the Deputy Prime Minister who is in a great conflict of interest. There was also a meeting of the INA Council the other day, although the Committee on Conflict of Interest has already indicated that it should not participate in any INA decision. But here, the Deputy Prime Minister boasted about how tax reform has brought well-being to the citizens of Croatia, so I'm going to ask her to tell me how much your tax reform has brought to the pensioners and 547,562 pensioners whose pension is less than 2 thousand kuna, how much your tax reform has brought to them, which has brought the most to those who have the most because everything you've done since you've been in this government in favour of your great boss and you, and your finance minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37871	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37872	I think that I told you very clearly about the conflict of interest, and you're saying something that is incorrect because what you said is not in any way the decision of the committee mentioned. But let's put it aside. About the pensioners, which brings them tax reform. They bring about a strengthening of the economic potential from which pensions are paid and the strengthening and expansion of the possibility of creating a real economic mass that will potentially make pensions possible. The pensions are not the average pensions in Croatia that we are talking about today, and they are low because this Croatian government wants them either before or before it. So no Croatian government ever wanted pensions to be low, but the reason why their level today is such a consequence is different and economic and social and social circumstances and wars and transitions. And what is the task of every government, and I also hold in particular the tasks of this government to strengthen and strengthen economic growth that will create a substance from which these pensions will be able to be resiliently paid and when circumstances allow and realistically and on real grounds to increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37873	After this, we move on to the club representatives who applied to participate in the debate. The next club of representatives is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. In their name will be spoken by representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37874	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The position of MOST is clear and well known to all. MOST will not support Minister or Mr. Zdravko Maric in his continued behaviour as Finance Minister. We think he was part of a high management company that with its unconscious So MOST believes that since Minister Maric was part of the high management of the company that has put his unconscious business at risk and is still jeopardising the stability of the Republic of Croatia can no longer be a member of the government, and from his position as minister that we are in a more orderly state, he has retired long ago, but unfortunately we can only hope that Croatia will one day be on the list of regulated states. [[/Intruder Petrov: Representatives I would ask. Go on.]] I will not enter the expertise of Minister Marić because I have had the opportunity to meet him for the past seven months and to cooperate with him and can only say that in the areas in which we worked together and talked, his expertise has never come into doubt at least from my side. However, I am here to point to a series of coincidences and strange coincidences that go hand in hand to Agrokor as well as what is most important to me and above all else, and that is responsibility. That's why I'm going with HBOR. Mr. Maric is familiar with my work and way of working on the HBOR Supervisory Board where we sit together. He's very familiar with all my remarks over the past five months where I refuse to vote at every meeting of the HBOR Supervisory Board. He is equally familiar with all the reasons why I refuse to vote at the board meetings because it is unacceptable for members of the Supervisory Board to get the material 3 days before the vote, we are talking about voting credits of over 100 million kuna, 200, 300, depending on the company. It is equally inadmissible that we cannot get those same materials before that deadline. We can't get them for the reason HBOR's administration is working on them, so they can't deliver them until the moment they give a positive decision on that loan. For this reason, I may be able to understand certain members of the HBOR Supervisory Board who will raise their hands for credit because it is not their profession, because they do not understand exactly what this is about. I, who am an economist and who am an entrepreneur, i.e. a representative of the real sector, and that of the lowest, micro-enterprise, are people who are terrified of inspections, who regularly go through all regulations and all laws to make sure that they carry out their activities neatly because they are threatened by the threat of their existence, and perhaps for that reason I am looking much more closely at this case. However, I cannot understand Minister Maric, who received warnings from me personally for 5 months, who participated in the HBOR Supervisory Board meetings when I warned all other members of the Supervisory Board that we could not get into a situation to do these things, to raise our hands for loans we did not check. None of us in that room checked to see if the public money we're giving would come back safely. None of us are even aware that we're actually giving public money away. What I'm saying is, despite the fact that the minister was exempt from the loan vote, he worked in Agrokor, he was in that company and I'm just wondering if he put the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the public money we put first. Because if he had, then he would have felt at least a duty if it wasn't already his duty to check the situation in Agrokor, the duty to ask himself if he should have done it, whether he should have checked who we were sending over 300 million kuna and whether that money would come back safely. That's why I refuse to vote, which is why I consciously don't want to raise my hand for something that I know I'm not sure is going to put the public money back in the country. For me, as a representative, it is precisely the responsibility and duty to protect the Republic of Croatia from mismanagement of state money, and next, it should be the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Not only should this be a duty, his duty should also be to protect the HBOR institution as chairman of the HBOR Supervisory Board. And not to mention that all the other members of the Supervisory Board were put in a position just by putting this on the agenda to vote on something that no one at that moment knew, because if we knew then we certainly wouldn't vote. And today’s situation suggests that the situation in Agrokor was then to be known. As regards the amendments to the law, the first thing you did when you came to the office of Minister of Finance has been amended by the Rules on Statistical Reports and Amendments of the Factoring Act, the amendment of the Rules on Statistical Reports, or the extension of the deadlines on outstanding outstanding claims, which are thus hidden from the public or prevented from reacting by the competent authorities for the same. In the entire situation in which we are today in the case of Agrokor, it is simply too much coincidence, that this law prevented timely insight but also reaction to the situation in Agrokor. What's this move really looking like today? The amendment of the law that you have implemented, the next amendment of the factoring law, which already extends the period of harmonisation of legal entities to an additional period, thus allowing legal entities not only to have more time to adapt but also to have more time not to show the real situation to the public but also most importantly to no, so you allow them that competent authorities cannot respond in due time. Why did you allow this change in the law or extension of the deadline to allow Agrokor additional time in which he did not have to meet certain conditions, including the most important risk management plan and the mandatory control of HANFA? It was these changes that culminated in the urgent need for the urgent adoption of the Law on the procedure of the extraordinary management of trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. Minister Maric, you said just before that when you came to the mandate that you were welcomed by the practical factoring law, that you spoke to professional services and that in agreement with them you only confirmed this amendment to the law. I will only give you comparisons to tell you that in the same situation as you were when I came to the first session of the HBOR Supervisory Board where they were right in front of me, they were not the same but the same professional services brought before me documents from five companies and said that the positive decision of the HBOR Board and that I voted on them, regardless of what the materials were delivered to us 3 days ago. Do you know what I did? Or you know because you were there. I refused to vote, give consent to that loan for the reason I wasn't sent to it, for the reason I wasn't sure. I also believe that you, as Minister, were also responsible to know what your hand is, or what you approve, and what a change of law as well as what we talked about earlier, I don't know if you were in the HBOR loan assembly. All of this points to irresponsibility. And what I'm really interested in is in the case where you believed professional services you didn't check and in the case of HBOR the same professional service as the management brought the HBOR today into the situation that there are billions of kunas earned and not the debts charged. Does this mean that we actually have a minister who will sign or make any decision on the Ministry of Finance or the Republic of Croatia without having checked it before? Does this mean that we have a minister who, not even on purpose, can bring this country to the wall itself? I will now read the chronology of events that speak for themselves so they do not need to be further commented but it is very necessary to repeat them. On 15.3.2017, you stated the following, in terms of tax relations, for the time being, I repeat for now and I will repeat 15.3., there were no phenomenal forms that would indicate some extraordinary situation, situations that are unusual, i.e. to go into the sphere that we should act alarmably. On 31.3. only 15 days after, the Republic of Croatia blocked Agrokor. Next case. Based on your statement on the day 15.2.2017 emissions in the first network. "If it comes to that, I will exclude myself from a decision concerning Agrokor. I think I've shown it by now. There were several situations where it was decided directly or indirectly about the company itself, and I also showed about my exemption." Zdravko Marić, press conference 15.3. "I certainly don't want to be a minister in the government to be a burden on anyone. It's my responsibility in the area that I cover, of course, that it has something to do with Agrokora itself. I will certainly be exempt in certain segments or elements, but in this case I am talking about one issue concerning the entire economy and I am sure that the government will take an adequate position." Zdravko Maric, 12.4. "Of course, I am the finance minister and the principle of the Ministry of Finance institution that existed before and after me will exist, and it was included in the process. However, as of Monday, all witnesses are that a second phase has been launched in which I no longer feel there is a need for an exemption, given that neither then nor now I am in any conflict of interest." Minister, if someone gets an application for a conflict of interest, then that person should be welcomed and the solution can not decide whether or not he is in conflict of interest. My next question is whether you, as Minister of Finance of the most important ministry in this country, are holding all the financial resources in your hands and having the highest confidence of this Parliament and the Government that you as a man and as Minister of Finance can put yourself in a position to exempt yourself from the decisions of a legally declared company of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. Minister Maric simply cannot be a finance minister anymore, because he was part of the high management of the company that has threatened and still endangers the stability of the Republic of Croatia, he can no longer be a member of the government because he did not warn and react to the situation in Agrokor from his position as minister. Not only did he not warn and react in time but he was in more situations where he needed to show his responsibility than he did. I also gave you a comparison of the responsibility of myself as a representative and all other representatives in the Croatian Parliament who, tomorrow, will vote against such responsibilities. Because simply all of these examples unquestionably point to a strange coincidence of the minister's actions that are wrapped in the general settings of laws and regulations, but somehow they always happen to benefit Agrokor. And a coincidence that when repeated and several times simply can no longer be a coincidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37875	Representative Marko Vučetic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37876	Here I thank my colleague, Ninčević-Lesandric, for the most exhaustive and contentious exposure so far. But also an exhibition that, at least as far as I'm concerned, has resulted in a sudden, rapid rise in concern about what's going on in Croatia, which is happening in the ministry. If we take just for example what you said was going on in HBOR that the minister, as far as I understand it, is involved in drawing up the agenda, but is exempt from voting. We learned that while working in Agrokor, the minister was exempt from signing. We are no longer talking about Zdravko Marić as Minister of Economy, but about Zdravko Marić as a metaphysical craft that is exempt from all where he is present, where he participates in creating reality, but avoids the way to be responsible for what this creation produces. And I can really tell you that this methodology of action that you have described, and it was at work in the HBOR, that it can only result in parliamentary representatives voting against Zdravko Maric's further acting as finance minister. And since he's been exempt from everything but the minister's position, I think we should afford him the exact experience of exemption from our will.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37877	Replicate response, MP Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37878	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I have already said in my presentation that I consider Minister Marić a professional person and I am very fond of him. However, I have sworn an oath here in this House for my responsible conduct and my actions and my work is no longer my responsibility but responsibility for this entire country. And for this reason, I have warned and for this reason I resent Minister Maric for his responsibility. He had to, and his duty was to know the situation in Agrokor more than he was working at that company at the time he voted on this loan. I also warned the session before and that the HBOR, the HBOR control, could not function in this way. But it obviously didn't matter. Unfortunately, it is only now five months after this whole situation that we can do much better, much better to look at and question and the whole work of the HBOR Supervisory Board and ask ourselves why it is done. Which is why 300, 400, 500 million kunas are made overnight and why we, as members of the Supervisory Board, cannot have insight into all these materials in time. Because I am responsible for telling you that I would give an assessment of one credit that I am sure will return I must look at both the balance sheet and the account and the loss of both the company and the balance sheet and the account and the loss of all related companies and their business and their liquidity and their credit. Only then do all the proposed activities from their projections that they say will be able to repay the loan neatly. We can't do any of that and we can't check it out. And for this reason, I believe that in this way the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development gives the funds in vain, and by the case of Agrokor we have proved it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37879	Representative Grozdana Perić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37880	Mrs. Lesandric and I are a member of the HBOR Supervisory Board and all that you have said is so shameless. Because I get these materials on the table, and in three days, I get to look at most of them. For what I'm not looking at, I'm clearly saying, and what I'm looking at, I must have been commenting on at the board meetings, and you've never been. Therefore, you did not comment, nor did you read, and you knew all along to actually obstruct the work of HBOR at the same time as the minister came with complete materials, you came without material and prepared for certain points of daily work. Therefore, they are shameless lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37881	Reply to the replica of MP Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37882	Representative Peric, I hope to arrive because I am shocked that a woman of your age can lie like this, and thank God we have all the records, all the e-mails, all the communication between me and the secretary of HBOR where I send her applications every week to give me the materials in time, so I'm sending her applications. Please send me the materials in time. And I'll read just one record after I'm active on every committee, now it's a question of how many times you've been if you say I haven't checked in, but here's the HBOR log that says: "At the beginning of Mrs. Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric's session, she made a statement to the members of the Supervisory Board. She stressed that the inadmissible delivery of material to members of the Supervisory Board three days before the meeting was held, since that deadline is not sufficient to look at the business of the company and its related companies and the proposed projections. Ms. Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric" therefore I exist here alone, I write, "after this she stressed that she would remain abstention when voting on all agenda points precisely for all of the above reasons." So every session I repeat the same thing, I'm sorry that you came to the session and played the obvious vase if you didn't notice me, hear me, even this tone I'm talking about. I can only say that just after five months, Minister Maric put on the daily work of the next session, which will be held at HBOR's final debate on amending the Rules of Procedure. You know who it's about? It's because of me. You should have heard that, too bad for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37883	Representative Davor Romic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37884	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Parliamentarian Ninčević-Lesandric. I've been listening very carefully to your presentations. There's a question of competence and a question of responsibility. When it comes to you, I must say the competences you have, you're educated, you're a scientist, you're a member of the HBOR Supervisory Board, you've shown and you want to say you have responsibility for what you're here for. In that segment of responsibility, I was simply shocked by what you said, so I'd only want one answer, what would you do, what would you do if you were in another position that you were talking about today? Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37885	Reply to the replica of MP Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37886	A fellow MP, so I think it's enough that I refused to vote at all the points of the agenda in HBOR, and I didn't refuse to vote out of boredom, but I gave concrete reasons why I didn't do it. If I were in the position of the minister, I'm sure that first all the board members would have all the documentation they were looking for in time, they would have been reasoned with them through all the parts that were questionable and sure as a minister that I was giving funds to a company that would surely return them. We didn't do it then, and that's why we now have public money in a company that we're not sure is going to pay back.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37887	Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37888	Dear President, dear colleague Lesandric. Too bad you're not the head of the opposition so if you had your first exposure this morning, then this is the only possible concrete exposure with concrete arguments against Minister Maric. However, you didn't mention another important argument we haven't received since this morning, so I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic this question, neither did Minister Maric, Minister Dalic tried to answer and said, so nothing has changed because the deadline has now been six years to verify the disproportionate property since we had until 2005 but nothing has been found. Well, that's exactly the greater responsibility of all current finance ministers, tax administrations and others, so we've had and haven't been checked. And now to protect it because it's likely that some people who ask a lot of questions as you ask and as you've asked on this monitoring board have appeared in the House, then they've shortened that protection to only six years. And the father's time has remained beyond the tax shears since 2005 that can no longer be investigated. We can spend the last six years and every year eat a year and no longer be able to investigate it at all. And this is the behaviour that indicates that the finance minister is obviously or not aware of complete dilettance or intended to make the Croatian budget damaged without investigating the disproportionate nature of the assets in which it exists from 2005 to 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37889	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37890	I agree with you, I have nothing to answer except that here all the time it's just about responsibility, and the Minister of Finance must have that responsibility and his simple state interests, public money must be above all else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37891	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37892	Thank you very much. Mrs Lesandric-Ninčević, you mentioned in your debate that you were a member of the HBOR Supervisory Board, and I think there is one of the more serious problems, which is the loan that 400 million kuna is worth almost approved, several months ago something that became clear that Agrokor is heading in a direction where there is no return and where the minister allegedly is exempt. What I'm interested in, and since Mrs. Dalic didn't say, what was essentially an exception? So was the minister even in the session, was he running a board meeting, didn't he just vote? So it's not clear to me how whoever prepares the session defines the points with the HBOR administration, how it is excluded, and did you notice that there was some difference in the previous meetings of the Supervisory Board when you didn't discuss this loan. So this is a very important fact because the chairman of the Supervisory Board defines the agenda of the Supervisory Board's session. Was it then fully taken over by Martin Dalic or was it just an exemption from the vote. That information is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37893	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37894	Unfortunately, I can't give you that information because, as you already know, I wasn't at that session, I've attended everyone else, but I know that I didn't vote at a session before and on each other for the same reasons because I'm simply an economist and as an entrepreneur, and I'm inadmissible that we can't discuss it in time and tell us but management's been through it all, management has approved it all. What administration? The HBOR has led to billions of outstanding debts. These administrations and similar administrations have brought the Republic of Croatia into this state. So it's just that today the economy of the state is such that you responsible officials and MPs can't make decisions if they haven't checked them themselves. So we can't rely on structures that have been there for 25 years. And that's the responsibility I'm calling for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37895	Representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37896	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lesandric, I must say I'm surprised at the part of your debate. You were talking about the negative influence of the Lex Agrokor you yourself raised your hand for. I am surprised that you are calling today for the responsibility of Minister Maric and when we passed the law you voted for him. I just think that's how you show inconsistency above all. And as for the responsibility for which you call the Minister in respect of the work of the HBOR Supervisory Board, whose member and all that you have said about it, I believe that if you were a member of the board and you claim that it was not done properly within the Supervisory Board and you call for the responsibility of the Minister, I would be interested in whether you have taken any other steps, because this would be normal and would be expected of you as responsible members of the Supervisory Board if you consider that the chairman of the Supervisory Board does not act in accordance with all the rules and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37897	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37898	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, the Agrokor Act and the state of HBOR have absolutely nothing to do with each other. So I voted for the Agrokor Act, and I will never say that I am not because I am, and tomorrow I would do it again for the reason that I believe that the state was put into a situation that was simply necessary to pass such a law that would prevent all producers, suppliers, who would save the entire economic system, and that is what the law does and I have studied that law and I am convinced that if it works according to plan that it is good. In parallel with this law, we wanted to investigate all the people who participated in Agrokor and led him to this, but here, as we can see, it didn't suit anyone, so our ministers were relieved. And as for my reaction to the HBOR Supervisory Board, so at 5 or 6 sessions, now don't take my word for it, at every session I've also warned members of the Supervisory Board and the Minister specifically and I expected a reaction, I welcomed and here a week ago when the Rules of Procedure finally changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37899	Representative Branko Martinchev-Juričev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37900	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Ninčević, I believe not only me but also colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, and especially our citizens with impatience wanted to hear the views of MOST. What is this reason why you accepted the SDP proposal to raise the issue of trust to Minister Maric? And now I'm listening to your presentation, at point one, no more of your trust because you don't get the material for the HBOR sessions in time. Furthermore, you suspect Agrokor will be able to repay public money to the state? Point 3. The factoring law has been amended and changed three times. Once before, during Zoran Milanovic's term, Tihomir Oreskovic and now for the third time. And so on. And when we remember what was the presentation of the promoter this morning, we can't get the impression that we heard this morning that Dad was petting him, so that he had a slight look at him, that look still remembers, so some grandfather and his grandson were talking about skips. Now that you're talking, we could hear that you have sympathy for, I'd say Minister Maric because I guess you don't know each other from before and all of a sudden, we should all vote together tomorrow on his trust, or we're giving out our trust. I can't help but think that this is all pre-election folklore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37901	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37902	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My politics began the day I entered the Croatian Parliament and I do not intend to live on politics because it is simply not, I do not want to live on politics, I simply want to contribute to the development of politics and all that is above it is no longer a contribution to political life but a parasite. And what I'm trying to tell you is what I'm pointing at here and that's responsibility. So all of this can only be concluded now that this whole Agrokora situation has come to an end. So it's only now that what I've been warning you about for four months is happening. I warned because I didn't want to get into a situation to give public money to someone and that someone can't get it back. And that's exactly what happened to us. That's what I'm talking about, so I'm not talking about responsibility, I'm not talking about professionalism, I'm not talking about human beings. I told you, I think he's an expert, but I have a responsibility above all else. I simply took an oath and my responsible behavior and I expect even bigger than the Minister of Finance. So he should have, had to, his duty was to know the situation in Agror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37903	Representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37904	Dear colleagues Ninčević-Lesandric. This whole situation, the whole debate, and especially by MOST these days reminds me of some divorce case, so the husband and the wife come into some kind of trial, and then some dirty laundry is pulled out, so someone threw a plate or a cell phone, so someone told someone or someone did or didn't deliver him any material. You're on the board of directors, not HBOR, not this month or several weeks, but I guess from the beginning. You've adopted the budget with us, you've discussed it here with us. You didn't point out anything about HBOR, but I'm less than two minutes away to give you more concrete answers about that whole exposé you had, which was so long, and you didn't actually say anything. And it's even less justified based on what Mr. Bernardic was saying in front of the promoter. If you are on the HBOR Supervisory Board, then you have probably seen the contracts delivered to the shareholders to whom, i.e. the companies to which the HBOR credit was granted. Have you seen the clauses there that write in that contract that are practically pointless to me? They've fenced so much that you need to ask HBOR for consent if you're in possession of your property. They're so rigorous that you have to ask for the HBOR's consent if you're going to have a win. Did you watch that contract and the clauses that they wrote there? And you're a member of the Supervisory Board. I recently reacted to such a contract because we had to refuse it. It's more worth getting a commercial contract. So we can call a man, we can talk, we can look for some kind of shift. I have not heard today, but neither the Croatian public nor one single argument that this man, the minister of anything, has sinned, that in any conflict of interest, he does not do his job properly. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] By the way, everybody praises him. What is this farce for? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37905	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37906	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't know about you, but it's enough for me to have an argument that the man who worked in Agrokor and who took off, which doesn't diminish his responsibility, about giving credit to the company that we all know today is in the situation, then he didn't check and not only didn't check it out, but he didn't take himself for it to be his duty to know what the situation is in that company. Afterwards, we have a factoring law, where the minister is also, on the orders of the professional service, and their advice, he does not check the law. So, I keep telling you about the responsibility, the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, which tomorrow, and by accident, can therefore make any decision on behalf of the Minister of Finance and the Republic of Croatia, which he did not check. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37907	Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37908	Thank you very much. My colleague Ninčević, you made your arguments in this debate. So you mentioned the factoring law. Can you explain exactly what happened to the law that Minister Maric proposed here, and the Parliament adopted, I was restrained at the time, so I would not object. It's in the past government. Can you explain to me the situation in which the state is looming in the biggest problem since the Homeland War, and the finance minister is exempt from the situation, and financial instability is expected, an economic collapse is expected. And if he simply had to go militaryly to solve that problem, then he throws a spear into the ice and now as I return here, I didn't know. And of course, you're saying she's an expert. No one hurt him if he wasn't professional. Did he have to know about all these legal changes you said he'd made? You also mentioned the statistical report Regulation that it had changed in 2016. Whether Minister Maric had to know what was going on in Agrokor and the basis of what he was bringing these legal changes and the basis for which tax oversight was not carried out in Agrokor. Which is why he's been deluding the public for two months or a month that everything's fine in Agrokor. So explain this to me a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37909	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37910	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, I agree with you, and I believe the Minister of Finance should have been aware of all these situations. He's responsible for all the loans and the laws he's agreed to, and he's equally responsible for not knowing the situation in Agrokor that's been going on and on, so I'd say the most about this factoring law. Because that law not only gave companies more time to adapt, but it gave them more time not to show up in their real situation, and that in translated terms means that the competent institutions couldn't do their job. And that's one of the biggest reasons. As for tax, tax, or tax control, I strongly believe that each responsible minister who came to his post should have noticed and wondered why tax oversight was never in such a large company.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37911	Representative Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37912	Dear colleagues, Lesandric, in your speech you have made a lot of arguments and facts that you have said may be indications of a certain possible call it a subjective relationship to Agrokor company. But what I would like to do, where I would especially agree with you, and stress that we today have a difficult financial situation and one threat to the financial system precisely because of Agrokor. This is the most serious threat to the financial system and economic stability of the Republic of Croatia since the Homeland War and that is the fact. On the other hand, we have the fact that the current finance minister was the executive director, meaning member of Agrokor's high management company. And those two facts just can't go together. I think Minister Maric, too, noticed with his exemption in certain decisions. However, I should have been excluded permanently, and then I would get a round of applause not only on this left or right side of the assembly, depending on where we look. You'd get a public round of applause. I think this situation where one of the top managers of the company that has now threatened Croatia, the finance minister, is that this situation cannot be acceptable to anyone rational and anyone in what you said to a regulated state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37913	Representative Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37914	Dear colleague Lesandric, I am pleased that you have explained to us the story of the HBOR loan and the very actions you have repeatedly explained to us in the club that you cannot raise your hand for something you do not have enough data for, and if you do not have enough time to study it. But you also talked these days that after the law, which was passed, Lex Agrokor was specifically a story about a rule on statistical reports that also shows that some rules and laws might still have favored those who were employers of Mr. Maric and who showed one selective competence. So Mr. Maric said on 15.3.2017 about tax relations for now, I repeat, no phenomenal information has been observed for the past 15 days about Agrokor, so that the Republic of Croatia itself would block Agrokor. The financial reports are not in my responsibility to say 30.3. But while in Agrokor, he presented these controversial financial reports to foreign investors in view of the place he was at the time. Can you explain to us what the question was in these financial reports, and what has been changed about the date until when they have to be delivered?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37915	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37916	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Collaterals Ines, therefore, this amendment to the statistical report regulations or to extend the time limit for outstanding claims are essentially equally hidden from the public and there was no room for the competent institutions to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37917	Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37918	Thank you very much. My colleague Ivana, I realized that your work on the Supervisory Board for you was actually a pain in the ass, a hard job and you didn't want to resign, no matter what you regularly opted out of all decisions. And the thesis is, the materials came to us three days ago, and I couldn't check everything exactly so I could raise my hand. Will these loans come back if our materials come back three days before or will they come back if we get them a month earlier? Can you answer me with what certainty you will determine if you take the materials a month before? Okay, well, that's what you're gonna tell me. Second. The second thesis is that what you've now said is actually declaring all HBOR employees incompetent people at the edge of crime who don't know what to do and all responsibility is on the monitoring board that needs to do their job. You were supposed to do it, too, but you didn't want to. The third thesis is that those who have raised their hand and taken responsibility for themselves should go, and those who have refused to take responsibility would not raise their hand, they should continue to sit on the monitoring board. So who would get a loan with such criteria? So, my people, are we going to hear tomorrow that the secretaries of MOST that you hired somewhere or put in some office, that they know best to receive a call from some party, that all the other secretaries know nothing or some other employees anywhere? So what are you talking about? How long will you be good people of Croatian politics, and everyone around you is bad? So I understood the co-operation between HDZ and the Most in one sentence, HDZ ministers are HDZ's concern, MOST ministers are MOST's concern, but we see all the time that MOST cares about HDZ ministers. My men and you will leave politics and I will one day, but you should remain a man. What you're doing is under every level.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37919	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37920	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Boric, with all due respect, but I really have to tell you that you're talking nonsense because you're not professional about it, and you obviously don't understand it, and I'll explain it to you. So three days before the vote, you get five credits and each is about 50 to 100 million kunas, millions of kunas. In order for you, knowingly, to make the decision to give them these funds, you must, for each of those five, but for each, review the account of the loss, the balance sheet, their related companies, and from each associated company, the account of the loss, the balance sheet. ... Look at the business.hr as it stands, look at their business, their blockades, you need to get into the proposed all the activities you have in the project, so you have to calculate that these figures that are written in the balance sheet in the account get and the losses are really those numbers that are standing inside, and only then can you give an answer whether you give credit to that company and whether it is able to repay it. [[/The speaker talks too fast, he doesn't understand.]] That's what I've been talking about for five months because it's my profession, because I expect those of us who give that consent to know what we're giving it for, and we can't do it in three days, we just can't. So I'm a genius on three days of five companies, and I realize that work is not good to go out, and I let everyone else who's okay with it get their hands up. Well, come on, I guess it's up to you all to make this country progress. ... I warn every week. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37921	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like the MPs to refrain from commenting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37922	Comrade Petrov, you had to warn your colleague that she couldn't talk to another colleague to talk nonsense. So that's what I think is a violation of Article 238, and that's not the way because we hear a lot about a minister standing there. We heard it was a selectively competent metaphysical display, I liked it very much, but it was stupid that he really shouldn't be told.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37923	I'd like to speak to Agent Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37924	I don't have any problems with an apology, I apologize for that word of nonsense, but I just don't know what else to call it when someone tells me that in three days I can't read the materials that I know how long it takes, and then they tell me that I'm standing in a session that I don't vote on, and that's okay by the minister. I'm sorry, I'm not a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37925	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37926	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Ninčević-Lesandric. So regarding these arguments that I was also asked today by Minister Maric about these questions about amending the factoring law, so the time when he was the director of the Department of Strategies and related to this HBOR loan. What is most important to me, and Minister Maric listens to me very carefully, even though I replicate, what bothers me most as a citizen, you said, of course, in accordance with the tax secret at one point that there are no major irregularities related to Agrokor's tax debt. After a while, I don't know how many days it's been, there's been a blockade of Agrokor's accounts by the IRS, I think it's worth about 80 million kuna. In this country where we try to introduce order, in which we seek that every citizen, especially those who pay their obligations regularly, and many of them, because of their tax debt, have come into a situation where these debts can no longer be paid, it is a very sensitive area. Otherwise, on the tax administration's pages, maybe it's changed now, when the General Tax Law was changed, then this famous list of tax debtors or a list of shames was moved, twice a year, moved only once and until 31 October of each year if I'm right. So it's also not a good message because we're actually according to the old provision of 30.4. So a few days ago we should have known exactly what the tax debt of this company is. And it bothers me most of all. So if Agrokor didn't pay taxes, this is where it's speculated about the amount of six billion kunas. It's not a joke, look, I come from the community, from a place where kids still play on concrete, they don't have a gym sport. This is big money, a huge burden for the state, and I don't think it's right to do it today, and I voted for the Lex Agrokor Act, which saves jobs, if I voted for the law to forgive someone this big a debt and on the other hand the people live in poverty. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37927	A representative of the government has requested an election address.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37928	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, without the intention of ever, I hope that I will not break my word to present the details of some conversations, more informally, more formally, this or that kind of to collect some points either politically, or these, but I will only briefly refer to myself, now I understand what you told me a few days ago when we had a brief conversation. As Minister of Finance, I travel a lot, it's not a secret, you can always see and list travel expenses and all possible details. I usually use a plane when I go to Brussels, twice a year in Washington and don't count any more. Every time I cross over and land at Zagreb Airport, I am now very happy with Dr. Franjo Tudjman, I am welcomed by my colleagues and fellow customs officers. They have their superiors, it's the Director of Customs, Customs, I'm his superior, I'm the Minister of Finance, but these gentlemen, these fellow officers, they're not just gentlemen, there's ladies and gentlemen, so my officers in the uniforms of the Republic of Croatia, the Customs Service are standing in their position calmly because this Customs Service was and will be after Zdravko Maric, after any minister of finance, I was Minister of Finance until tomorrow, for the next few weeks, a few years or so. I ask you, I really ask you, I can understand my colleague and colleagues from MOST, they've only been in power for a year and a few days, they haven't had those experiences as perhaps other colleagues in this assembly, but I also see by the reactions of a number of parliamentary representatives, former ministers and those who are not, the institutions of the Republic of Croatia ladies and gentlemen, let's watch out. I'm not the finance minister, I'm not Superman, so I can't order someone, so I would never put myself in such a position, nor disabling the role of the finance minister and that same institution. You mention HBOR, I ask you nicely, read the HBOR Act, read the HBOR Statute, read all internal acts, and you will see how it works and works and operates in an institution that lives and there is already 20 in a few years and will be HBOR, an institution of the Republic. And let's not bring them into such a situation that our public thinks someone's throwing taxpayers' money at them. If you want to do a balance sheet analysis, an account to get a loss, cash flow, projections, I'm asking you nicely, I'll let you know when there's a next call at the HBOR for a credit analyst or for management, that's their job, the Board's job isn't. We give consent to credit for the approvals that are professional services, so professionals without any influence or interference, I have to correct here. I didn't know, and I didn't give a warrant for any credit to be on any agenda, so the proposal from the HBOR came and then as chairman of the Supervisory Board, I sign it and I give it to all of you. That's my part. Many of the people I see here are present, representatives of the Croatian Parliament at the HBOR Supervisory Board, many of you also. I'm asking you nicely, if I'm listening and I'm going to listen, and it's okay, today we're discussing a motion to resolve or recall the Minister of Finance, my smallness, here I'm willing to hear all of this, all of what I'm hearing, I've been saying, hard accusations under every level. But it doesn't matter, it's my function and it's my role. And I ask you nicely, do not destroy the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. It's my role as long as I'm still Minister of Finance, I repeat one more day, another day, a few weeks or a few years to protect her and I'll do it. That goes for HBOR, I'm running out of time, but in the next address, I'll also talk to you about the tax administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37929	Representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37930	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Maric, I've read everything, but everything I got from HBOR, and for that very reason, and I shouldn't have spoken to this thing publicly, when the press asked for whoever voted for the loan, I shouldn't have told you who voted for the loan, but you said that HBOR would answer on behalf of all of us who raised his hand for the loan and who didn't. And I respected it, no problem. I know, I realize that I have to change things from the inside, I warned you, I warned the board of directors, but only now this situation of Agrokora has actually proved that which is why I am warning that this does not happen to us. And what I'm asking you is, and I'm really asking you honestly right now, and we can really talk because you and I were on that board and we know very well how things work. Do you think it was your responsibility to check the situation in Agrokor, your duty before that loan came to the agenda or as you said you do not put it on the agenda. Were you supposed to at the moment you saw him, when you confirmed him as chairman of the Supervisory Board that he had arrived on the agenda, that you should have reacted?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37931	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37932	As with all other credit discounts and placement proposals, as chairman of the Supervisory Board chaired by the Supervisory Board, I gave my word to all the members of the Supervisory Board to make their comments. Before that, of course, we gave the word to the board of directors, i.e. the credit committee at the time, who presented details and general analysis of the entire credit committee. There was a vote following the debate. I'm myself, I repeat myself once again how many times, but next practice of what you have and what direction you have because I don't go through that kind of training for these kinds of performances. They say we have to repeat it over and over again. Repeat, repeat, repeat, and if and lie will become true at some point. Whatever. I'll try some things too. It is one of the two decisions in which I, in my term as Minister of Finance, opted out of the decision. It was one of two decisions. I considered respecting culture only exemptions by following the instructions of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest that in these circumstances I should be exempt from discussion and decision-making. But on the Supervisory Board you know well there are 10 members. At that session, I'm not going to speak specifically, because I can't, but you know they weren't all there. You know who he is, who he wasn't there and how he voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37933	Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37934	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I only have one remark after your presentation. You said to guard, you warned the Most that, above all, MOST, and in some ways others, to protect Croatian institutions. It's hard for me to understand when you're saying that you didn't think of the famous IRSCO you've been, I think I know what the arguments are. I followed, it was important that you actually by your decision and by the HDZ decision you were from the position he had when he was created, you actually hung up, you decided to drop into the IRS even though he worked well, even though he had results. It was, so it was deliberately formed exactly that way with that position. He had good results. The person who led him at the end of the day, as far as I know, she's gone. It wasn't the MOST's decision. It was your decision and HDZ's decision. I mean, it was an institution that, although created during the SDP-led government. But some of the institutions created in HDZ's governments were, and they were good, they had continuity. Here's an example of HAVC among other things. So, I think I'd say. I know, we don't have to repeat all the arguments that were made about that particular institution. I just want to say that sometimes, you know, there are things that can be resented in that sense. This is a little bit of a parentheses and a digression in the debate that isn't really about it, but it's about another topic kind of close, but here I had a need just to remind myself a little bit of you and your colleagues of this episode that was important after all. So, as to how I would say one institution that had good results, it worked well and it put many questionnaires above all of us and the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37935	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37936	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you for your comments and your question. It is a year now, a year will be a year away from me being resented by parliamentary representative Mr. Kristic. A year ago, you were on your way to this for a while, speculation. You called me for the first time even though we didn't even know each other at the time, that I'm supposed to cancel the so-called Finance Minister. Tax jump. A year, and the tax reform has actually revealed all the cards that have been my intention since the beginning. And here's to going back again, I don't have much time. In the next address, I will talk about the Tax Administration to see when I say we protect the institutions of the Republic of Croatia that my intention was exclusively and noble and honorable, that I keep this type of unit, the structure unit from any possible political influence. As long as I'm on political duty, I'm sure I won't do it, but today, someone third might be able to make a difference. And otherwise, in particular with the question of the Tax UskoKOK as well as with all the founding units of the Ministry of Finance, including the entire Ministry of Finance and for each one of us, I always repeat only and the only results are those who speak. The results on their co-operation with other units of the Ministry of Finance, the other units of criminal persecution of the Republic of Croatia speak best in my term. What is important to mention in the tax reform that is mentioned quite often here and will still be mentioned, I will talk about it. Unlike the former legal basis which was a regulation which defined the essence, i.e. the existence of the so-called "law". The IRS is now legally regulated. We've regulated it legally, so we've strengthened it. The head person of that body is also an assistant director of the Tax Administration, which means at a truly envious level in terms of hierarchy, but at the same time independent and unique that he can work and deliver the results that were previously expected of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37937	The HDZ representative club also applied for participation in the debate. In their name will be the representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37938	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers with fellow Members, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say that here all morning very carefully, all day, seven, almost eight hours, we are discussing the proposal of opposition clubs for the recall of Mr. Zdravko Marić, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say, I was expecting an argument from the motionary to prove himself a criminal minister of finance. Why did I expect that? I was expecting that the proposal that we received and signed by the opposition clubs was very little written about why this House should discharge its duties, in my opinion, in every government, of another government man. In my opinion, the finance minister is the right hand to the prime minister. All of you who have read the motion for impeachment, for resolution and what is written can agree with me that there is no argument there that would neither prove to Minister Zdravko Marić. So I expected this morning that the president of the SDP club and all the present proposing representatives would be involved even when they had not already written it in their explanation, that through a debate over this speaker they would show the evidence that would be charged with by Minister Maric. I even thought when I saw that proposal that came to us on April 20th, it makes mass, that the SDP club wrote it in a care that as soon as possible it would come to the Parliament because then in the debate, it would prove what they were not able to write in the very text of the reasoning. When they saw for themselves during the morning that there were no practical arguments to go to the minister's resolution then a story began that this was not really the story of Zdravko Marić, we can see through the phonogram that already here it is not even important Minister Maric anymore, here is something else. If that's the second issue of the government of the Republic of Croatia, not Minister Maric, then you should be, excuse the expression, so many guys and ask for government resolution because what you're asking for, you don't have arguments, if you've been saying all morning that maybe it's not the story we have to discuss, then it can be just the government. I don't know what they'd be discussing in the House if it weren't for Minister Maric the topic discussed here. And since you didn't write it and didn't ask for it then my duty on behalf of the HDZ club is to at least look back at what you wrote because I don't know what else you should look back on. So in your explanation, try to show three and a half as the prime minister said this morning and agree, three reasons why Minister Maric should step down. The first is a conflict of interest. Our friends at MOST also say about the conflict of interest, on the principle of ruling that he's in conflict of interest, and then we'll prove it. So I ask you, dear friends of the SDP, the HNS, and all of you who signed that conflict of interest? Tell me, do you know what a conflict of interest is? And before I say what the conflict of interest is, I'll say here I'm looking at you part of the ministers from the former government, from Milanovic's government for 13 ministers has found a conflict of interest, for 13 ministers, I think even for 14, but not to say the truth I won't say, 13 ministers from Milanovic's government were found in conflict of interest. That was the reason that the whole, not that the government would resign, but that it would rush from Parliament, if we were asking for a man who was not in conflict of interest to change. Careful, the government of Zoran Milanovic had 13 ministers who found a conflict of interest, so I'll tell you what the conflict of interest is. The conflict of interest in the definition of the Law is this: “This is a situation in which an individual who performs a particular public function comes to an opportunity by his decision or other action to suit himself or himself as close persons. ” It's a conflict of interest. Have we heard on several occasions, the minister said, it seems to me and in the government's statement, writes that after he left, Minister Maric was no longer one of the 25 executive directors from Agrokor concert, there is neither a shareholder of that society after that, nor is he a participant, nor is any of his family in any way connected with Agrokor after he left Agrokor. Therefore, if I were to interpret and I was in his position, I would not be exempt, nor would I, when it comes to the supervisory board and decision-making of the HBOR Supervisory Board, be exempt when it came to the proposal for a law on commercial societies or on extraordinary management in commercial societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, I would not be exempt. What, with such a decision, Minister Maric, as finance minister, would have favored himself if he had no more touch points with the company, neither he nor his narrow family, and I think he said more? There's no touch. What would he do now that he brought in and voted for the law on me simplifying him because we already call him Lex Agrokor, what would he do for himself? Let me explain this to my colleagues from the MOST and colleagues from the SDP, explain to me what he would have done for himself and his own, except that he favored the Government of the Republic of Croatia, us as representatives, the entire level of national government to take responsibility for stabilising the financial and economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. So much for conflict of interest. As far as the second crime he is told, he is as a responsible person responsible for falsifying the financial reports of Agrokor. Who said that, I haven't heard it yet, has anyone ruled that the Agrokor financial records were faked? I do not know that, nor am I a financial expert, nor have I read that she said any relevant financial institution in Croatia or outside Croatia. I didn't hear that. If anyone said that, we'll wait. I'll never judge before court, before court I won't judge. Therefore, if it is found that there has been a fake, then, firstly, those in the financial reporting system will be responsible for this. But I wouldn't have amnested an audit house and not just any audit house, but the best audit house whose... which audited Agrokor and audited its financial results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, by the time we get to the potential responsibility of a man who didn't write those reports, but who, as the executive of one of the 25 executive executives, sold Agrokor to investors, I think he's going to have to work pretty hard to prove that he was involved. It'll be a pretty broad interpretation of his responsibilities. And we haven't even established that these reports are faked and we should vote on his shift tomorrow. And imagine how far this road is and who in that system would be responsible for getting us to Zdravko Marić. The third part refers to the HPB loan. I was Minister of Construction in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, author of the subsidy law and state guarantee of housing loans. If by any chance Minister Maric had gone into the system today, his interest on the loan would have been 2.92. Because by preparing for this session, I asked the people who took the loans at that time, a few months later, a few months later, I apologize, a few months after receiving the loan from Minister Maric, that by any chance as a person under 45 years of age, according to the law we passed in the Croatian Parliament, his interest today would be 2,92%. Therefore, I do, even before that were loans that allowed young people to depend on and estimate one meter of the square apartment, depending on the height and price, were significantly more favourable loans to a certain amount. I'm not an economist, so I can't even be a banker, so I can't figure out how much you'd like it to be under that loan, so by law, if it were less than or at 4%. But that doesn't matter either. It has to do with whether he got the loan, misusing his duties as chairman of the Supervisory Board. As far as I read it, it was according to the H.P.B. regulations. It was according to Croatian Bank regulations, watch out seven years ago, seven years ago. He showed it neatly in his property card, he showed it neatly, and still today, I see that today he still has that loan, and he's still paying back that loan. Therefore, we did not mind this in 2016 the first time he was appointed minister, we did not mind when he was re-elected as minister in October last year and now that is the reason to call him off. I don't think that's absolutely correct. But he's resorting to it today when you don't have an argument, so we're gonna load anything on his back so he doesn't have to and he's forced to back off and to justify the fact that we asked for his trust. And in the end, I have to say that it seems to me that this request is, and I've already said that from this same pay phone, in fact, I'm not going to say that it's envy or self-inflicted but for one successful story so far, at least the story of Agrokor. I would like that story to be successful until the end, and I would like the Deputy Prime Minister and the Finance Minister through this project to draw us to a settlement that will address the issue of Agrokor. To make a whole point of what the law has given thought, what the law has decided is to make a final settlement that will solve the issue of Agrokor. Because how to interpret that, instead of the opposition behind this law, this necessary, necessary and necessary community on such an important economic project should not end up in our bickering here in the Croatian Parliament. Because I said, in two three days on Agrokor who found this government and Andrej Plenkovic as president of that government, we have two acts, one act going as a consequence of Agrokor is directed towards the Minister of Finance and another act that has not yet been included in the agenda and I think it will be very quickly included in the agenda that is a request for the establishment of an investigative commission on the situation in Agrokor. I don't have a problem with that. We at the HDZ Club have absolutely no problem with it we will provide support to explore everything that has been done in Agrokor and precisely for the protection of those of us who today support this government we want to see to the end whose responsibility is, what is the responsibility for the situation in Agrokor. And all those who have contributed to the situation in Agrokor to answer for it But not to respond because I want it or the Minister or the Prime Minister, but because they deserve it, and I can only investigate it. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] for that purpose, the established institutions of the Republic of Croatia. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37939	Representative Zeljko Reiner responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37940	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Bacic, you know I'm not a financial expert, and that's why I'm a little vague, here's what I've been listening to all afternoon and afternoon trying to argue. I haven't heard a lot of arguments, but I've heard contradictory things. Maybe you'll be the one to clear it up for me. Some of the colleagues from both the SDP and the MOST said, I quote, "In fact, an exception should be permanently excluded." When it comes to the exemption, not only is it excluded in those two times when it was excluded, but it should be permanently excluded. And then their same colleagues said he shouldn't have been excluded, but he had militaryly, quote, to cut off, to decide how to make a decision at all, as he had thought to exclude himself. That means we don't have a minister, etc. So why don't you explain to me what's true? Did he, therefore, have to be excluded and permanently excluded, or should he not have been excluded at all, and he did wrong to exclude himself. I'm obviously unfaithful to it, but I hear it's completely contradictory statements from the same people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37941	Reply to the replica, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37942	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I am not much of a great expert either, I have tried to explain, as far as I know, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, that in this case, a particular case which he is charged with or better said is trying to charge because it cannot be done, that he is not in conflict of interest. I don't even know if anyone initiated a procedure to establish a conflict of interest in these cases in which he was exempt and in which he was not exempt. I don't know if the procedure has been initiated, but I agree with you, Mr. Vice President, that the statements are quite contradictory that we've been listening to this morning. And they're contradictory because I don't think there's a conflict of interest here. And I said that I was the chairman of the Supervisory Board in a situation where I was no longer in that system. I don't have any business, no ownership relationship with him. I don't see any reason. Because then how do you interpret the next thing, that his predecessor and my friend Boris Lalovac were the finance minister who came from the banking system? He was also a high-ranking bank employee. I know that at that time, this government, whose member he was, even as a finance minister, had passed very important laws not to mention them now that had been repercussed to the financial operations of banks, their savings, creditors, etc. And then can any finance minister function normally if it comes from the real sector? I don't get it. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37943	Thank you. Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37944	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Bačić, you have made a mistake in your definition of where you found this definition of conflict of interest, because what you said is not a definition of conflict of interest. Don't mind if I train you, but I'm from the academic community. In accordance with Article 2(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest exists where the private interests of officials are contrary to the public interest, especially when the private interest of officials affects its impartiality in the exercise of public duty or may be reasonably suspected of affecting its impartiality or when it may influence it. So the definition is terribly broad and paranoid, I would even say in some way the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is strict. But what's a little bit shocking is that you as president of the HDZ Club don't know that definition, that your Deputy Prime Minister doesn't know that definition, your Vice President is confused with it, so he asks you to set him up. And also, in fact, in the background of all this, it turns out that you as a party have one deep problem with conflict of interest and its understanding. In fact, you can't understand how when you do something that may not be in accordance with the law can be in conflict of interest when one hand is on the heart and the other is in the pocket. Excuse me if I've been a little rough, maybe. You just need to know that definition. I mean, it's in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37945	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37946	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, you tried to be rude. I don't know how you did it, but as a member of what you said to the academic community yourself. You haven't explained anything to me, I don't know how you can explain to someone else what you and that replica to me and to all of us together have explained what a conflict of interest is. I didn't realize it from your presentation, since you're at the SDP club as the promoters, that you know what a conflict of interest is, then you should have explained it correctly. You should have explained exactly what the Minister of Finance's behaviour of public office has done for himself and his interests. Prove it. After all, did it bring the word to the Committee? Did it come? You are horrifying over something that has not yet reached the Commission, and there have been 14 ministers sitting in your government who have been found in conflict of interest. Therefore, there is none here, nor did you explain it in your proposal. During the morning, you have not explained anything further to make it Minister Maric in a conflict of interest. And now you're telling me that we don't really know, you know that you just can't explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37947	Representative Marko Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37948	Here's my esteemed colleague Bacic, I won't be rude I'll talk about facts. Do you know that HBOR has 20% suspicious plasmas? So any normal bank in the world would fail under such circumstances. Do you know the fact that all banks, but just all banks closed down all the restrictions on Agrokor six months ago and that despite that fact, HBOR approved this credit to Agrokor? Tell me, just in that situation, what did the Minister of Finance want to say with his exception? Because he wanted to keep that story a secret, or he had to go out simply to the members of the Supervisory Board and inform them of these two very important facts. Secondly, in two terms, it means in a mandate that actually fell because of Mr Karamark and this mandate there were two attempts when he tried to take away the independence of the IRSK. Mr. Maric's argument that he said he was very correct there and that keeping the IRSKOK's independence is not true. So he exclusively succumbed to pressure, so almost all the media and our fellow MPs who have been tortured here for days, arguing that the IRS should retain their independence because in just one year he discovered more tax illegality than the entire IRS within 25 years. That's one question. So explain this situation to me and explain to me who he wanted to send a message to when the deadlines for investigating the disproportionate property, so illegally acquired property, to whom did he want to send a message when he reduced those deadlines from 1.1.2005 to just the last six years, with a new year taking away one? So I think it's either intricacies or intricacies, and I don't want to think there's any unholy intent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37949	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kristic, do you think HBOR is a serious institution? Anyone who tried to make a loan at HBOR passes through HBOR's Professional Services shall pass the credit committee before it comes to the board of directors, after that to the Supervisory Board. I don't want to doubt if you have any arguments that someone in that chain to Minister Maric and members of the Supervisory Board in any way did something, faked something you choose to show, say, I'll be glad that you succeed and that here shows how someone did some crime there. As far as the IRSKOK is concerned, it will explain later, it has already been announced by the Minister of Finance, I hold that the IRSKOK should work in quality, that it should be provided with all the assumptions that it is doing great and that it is independent, and the Tax Administration, and customs, and the judiciary, and the DORH and USKOK, and PNUSKKOK must all be independent, but perhaps the most of the ministers, which you would be burdening him with that which does not affect both the IRSKOK and I do not know which one these ministers do not affect. And thirdly, I remember that debate about the deadlines of limitations. I think that if, over six years, the IRS doesn't determine that someone's hidden somewhere and didn't pay the tax, then it really has to be the tax collector who didn't charge it, but the one who got out of those scissors. But I know what you're alluding to, that's all you have to say. You shouldn't have left it in your mouth, you should have said it all the way. All of what, here's a colleague... all of what's been acquired by a criminal act, to which you're alluding, will not be released from the kind of obsolescence that you're trying to imply here right now. I'd be the first if any property obtained by a felony had gone into oblivion and would not... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37951	Thank you. Mr. Bacic took advantage of the situation. Representative Sabina Glasov reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37952	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bacic, you have stated that there is no evidence that the financial reports have been faked, so you said something if I understood you correctly. My question to you is, why did HANFA suspend the stock trade of eight companies from the Agrokora concert yesterday? Just because the financial reports are credible, banned until 15.5 and hired a new audit house PricewaterhouseCoopers to review and review the financial reports of these eight companies, that's the first. And another thing, when you claim that this case of Mr. Maric has not even reached the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, or that we do not have a legal opinion or opinion of the commission at this time, we do not know whether the procedure is in motion or we do not have a final word. In fact, the problem is that until today, or this moment, we have not received an answer for which the minister does not comply with the laws before entering certain duties, and he was obliged to ask the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, whether or not he can participate in certain decisions. That's exactly the problem, and it's just a kind of violation of the law. Unfortunately, as counterpart Grbin has already pointed out, we have not received an answer to a number of other questions as to how it is possible for people against whom the proceedings are being conducted, other people against whom the procedures are being conducted before the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest can sit in the government and make some important decisions, as the prime minister closes his eyes to the fact that some members of the Government are in an equidential conflict of interest, and punishes those who warn the same, etc. We've been asking all morning and all day the same questions, but the answer isn't, to clarify this situation from our request, but the answer is no, it's just pain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37953	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37954	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of the Voice, I think I was quite specific when I was talking about potential falsification, falsification of the data that are part of the Agrokor financial reports. So now you're telling me here that the HANF has expressed doubts that certain financial reports of one of the related companies in the system of concerts are not, 8, 10, I don't know how many, 70 of them seem to me, so 8 of the companies have stopped. I said, so now we don't have any decision to make that, that those reports are falsified. If this is to be proved, it will have to be necessary, in order to charge the finance minister, who was practically an Agrokor seller to investors in international markets, that he will certainly need a lot of freedom to prove that he is responsible. Until it came to him from a dependent society and that he would have decided and nothing in that system had been signed, nothing, from where he would have had such knowledge at all, from where he would have had the knowledge that a daughter had no balance to the end or I don't know, or an income or expenditure account that she was not in full with I don't know international accounting standards or anything like that. So even to prove by me it's pretty much already, there should be a lot of freedom there to get to his fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37955	Representative Tomislav Zhagar, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37956	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bacic. So we can all agree that Agrokor, according to its significance, and especially this crisis in Agrokor has also shaken the financial and political stability of this country, so Agrokor is such a significant company. Today we are talking about Minister Maric and we are actually talking about Agrokor and I agree with you cannot be the only crime that he was in Agrokor for a time. Falsifying financial reports, bonds without coverage, eventually everything that appeared in public probably also motivated counterpart Petrov to file criminal charges against Ivica Todorovic. Prime Minister Plenkovic says no one will use the repressive apparatus for pre-election purposes. Afterwards, at a cabinet meeting, since the three ministers present in the MOST quota voted in favour of this opposition request that you are right, the opposition sent the request, the minister, i.e. Prime Minister Plenkovic is replacing three ministers, the 4th was not present. What concerns me, I asked him today he's replacing the police minister, replacing the justice minister, we have a criminal record, we have serious indications that something was going on there. You say the verdict here first, and then we'll talk. It's not true, I'm a representative here, I'm glad and now the minister's out, I'm glad the minister is answering questions here, I'm asking him to answer questions more specifically, even more specifically, to reach a conclusion. I'm not here to yell at him. Neither am I like Pilate to wash my hands, but I want to hear from the Minister of Finance, which is exactly true. Because these are the exact things and when I talk about serious things, regardless of whether Minister Maric is still Minister or not tomorrow, his responsibility does not stop, responsibility and premiums and the entire government, because I say again these are serious things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37957	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37958	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Žagar, do you think that one of us is as glad as you have said, it seems to me that what happened in Agrokor, what happens in Agrokor, what the crisis around Agrokor has shaken the financial and economic system of Croatia, which is placed on it by over 150 thousand people whether they are employees, whether they are suppliers which are too important in the economic system of Croatia. No one's glad it happened there. And I'm completely and I support that all irregularities, that all illegalities, that all criminal, criminal, I don't know how I'm going to say crimes if they've been committed find their culprits and that they're responsible for them. But as a politician in the Croatian Parliament, I am not one of those who will resist the finger because I have no idea who is guilty there and I will not dare call anyone because I have no need or reason nor is it my job. Let those in charge of this find out, the institutions involved, be at peace, as far as I'm concerned, let it be known to them, but I'm not for us, through the insistence and calling of a person, to make it difficult for them to work. Because they'll turn out to be on orders, on someone's orders, so maybe they won't be credible, even if they do, so we'll trust them even less. If these services, these institutions are working on my orders, then no one trusts them anymore. They will be credible if they are independent, if we politicians leave them alone and allow them through the laws that they can be independent and create an atmosphere to be independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37959	Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37960	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Bačić, I've been listening to your debate, and you've been trying all along to defend your slogan with credibility, and you're failing at all. You're talking about the reason for Minister Maric's shift and I haven't heard the reason for the replacement of the three MOST ministers that happened at the government, although I think the ministers can vote against the government and that decisions do not have to be unanimous, by consensus made in the government, they can also be made by the majority of the minister's votes, so that's no reason why it happened in the government. Only if what is said and written in the media is true, that Minister Orepic wanted some very important people in the Republic of Croatia to write, i.e. Put you in jail and lock you up. One word is the reason for all of this and the cause of all of this and the answer to why it all happens, and that's Agrokor. In your discussion, you said nicely, and I quote you: “We will do all things for Agrokor. ” And I am convinced that you will do anything to make Agrokor survive, because it is very important to you in HDZ and it is known why and what is behind it. Unfortunately, the people will never know the truth, I believe neither many of us, for the truth is known to be deep water. How do you explain the bonds without covering? How do you explain that someone with a higher salary is coming to a smaller minister's office? Is it such a nice being minister? Well, I don't think all those who were ministers are happy, I don't think they'll want to be a minister again. I had a chance as a secretary of state to see her as a minister so I could never think of being a minister. In Europe and the civilized world and that democracy that we all swear ministers leave for much less And you're already defending the other minister. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] To the end [[/The President's intrusion: Excuse me, it's expired. Thank you.]] And you're capable of destroying this government. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And bring down the government. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37961	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37962	Thank you, Mr. President. What country do you live in? Do you live in a democratic state? You know what you just said? To put Minister Orepic in jail There's a rumor? [[Intruder: There's a rumor.]] And that is to you, and you say it, and you repeat it, and you do not yet know what you have said. I don't know if there's anything else I need to tell you. You should apologize to Minister Orepić first, that's what you should do first. And then all the Croatian citizens who listen to you. He's gonna close? He's going to jail?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37963	Representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37964	Comrade Bačić, you mentioned in this former SDP government. Here's the whole day I've been listening to this debate and I've been thinking that we've had two governments for a year now, maybe now we'll have a third reconfigured or something like that. However, I also think about how it probably won't be so soon a stable government like the SDP that had a serious majority here in the Croatian Parliament and could do the hard work that it was doing, which means getting the country out of the crisis. From the crisis, they get the country out in a way that these governments are enjoying in these years, so they're enjoying the fruits of the work of our government. However, you mentioned something else. You mentioned that 13 or 14 ministers were in conflict of interest from that government. So I feel the need to explain what this is really about and how the banal situation is about in relation to what's being discussed here in the Parliament today. So, it's not even 13, but 23 government officials were then called for a possible conflict of interest because with their regular work, the devils even worked as members of the Governing Council of some state agencies. Well then, without any compensation, so for zero kuna. So they did their job, and that's how we figured it out, and I was one of them. And then the Committee of Conflict of Interest put it on the table and made a decision. You know which one? That none of these people are in conflict of interest, but that they are injured by some law, part of a law that says that these agencies were not at that time included in strategic agencies, or strategic companies, which was subsequently even from the same government and made. So these were really banal things and that's something that you really do can't compare to the theme of this session. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37965	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37966	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Greek fellow, first of all a stable government. Your government was stable, but it was the sixth worst in the world. ... And that's, you know it very well. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But just wait a minute. The sixth worst in the world. That's not, that's what I quoted those who measure you by all the indicators. But another thing, colleague Pusic. Wait a minute. The stability of the government, remember very well doesn't say it's a successful state. You know? Italy has changed dozens to government, and I wish we had a situation like Italy. You know? Thus, governments are very stable in non-democratic systems. Don't make me as an argument of your success to say that you were stable. You weren't successful, you were in debt for a hundred billion. No, you stopped all the important projects that were, you stopped a number of investments. We can talk about it when you said you were successful and stable. And the other thing about conflict of interest was that. It wasn't just a conflict of interest. And now you've tried to skillfully remove it from that conflict of interest that says you shouldn't have been on the board of some agency, that you shouldn't have, and that's that. But there were also serious conflicts of interest that you skipped and that you forgot, where the penalties were prescribed and where the ministers apologized, etc. etc. Well, they didn't come here and resign, and they weren't as resolved as you're now asking to do it for the sake of Unproven conflict of interest of the Minister of Finance. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37967	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37968	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Bacic, was injured by the Rules of Procedure, article 238, because he was talking about the wrong subject. Namely, not the SDP government when they talk about the worst governments, the worst government is the HDZ government of Dr. Ivo Sanader who stole... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37969	Representative Djujic, I turned off your microphone because your injury to the Rules of Procedure... /The speakers speak at the same time./...Provost Djujic because of your behaviour I am now giving you a warning, and we can continue. ...I ask you not to continue, do not make me take away your word. And you took the opportunity to hurt the Rules of Procedure... /The speakers speak at the same time. /... So you've had the possibility of replicating, of using the possibility of replicating, of hurting the Rules of Procedure is not a replica, I beg you to learn that. Josip Boric. [[Intruder Djujic: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37970	Thank you. You mentioned your friend Bačić to the guys, i.e. You said the guys were gonna call off the government, and we all know at least it's my opinion, everybody's calling in front of the cameras, in front of the media, and my personal opinion is, and they're begging God not to be. And we see this debate reminds us of that last one about Minister Barisic, in the morning fiercely, in a stormy afternoon of some sort of calm, and in the evening they'll have apologies and they'll be embarrassed. They will, just like last time. Why? Because you resorted to a pillar of shame from an honorable, honest and responsible, expert man without any argument, at least I didn't hear him here today, except for these three days for materials from the board of directors, none. And what is it alluding to, on our left-hand side, Excuse me on the right-hand menu? Freedom of conscience will remain outside the Parliament's door, now goes party discipline, now there's no power of argument anymore. Who wants to think that this debate convinces him of the correctness of this minister? No, let's go partyically by name. It doesn't matter if he's guilty, it's important to take down a man, it's important to those who swear to freedom of conscience. See what the media does to those who have dared to say that they have a conscience and that they want to make an argument about what they think and vote for it. No, it's out there. So what do we do now? Tomorrow we will be a jury here who will either either have to take down or not, condemn or not condemn an innocent man, an expert, capable of making peace in his own ego. Says one saying, better to let 100 guilty people go than to judge an innocent. What we're doing today, what we're doing on this side is below each level of colleagues Bačić [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] and later in my debate, I will speak to a company like Konzum for Croatia. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37971	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37972	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Boric, I'm signing everything you said, I agree with you. And here I can also say that we at HDZ are also in favour of elections without any problem we are ready to go to these elections, unless such a stable government is formed that will be able to, as the Greek counterpart said, be one stable government that can continue with these upcoming trends in the Croatian economy, in stabilising public finances and all that. What we also may not have said today is that in the situation in which Agrokor is located I think that a stable political situation in Croatia is certainly a certain wind in the back and that company and all those companies that are dependent on the work of Agrokor himself and suppliers and all who are in a certain way participating and participating in the work of the company itself. Therefore, I agree with you, if that is the solution, however, without any problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37973	Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37974	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So different things are said today and ad-hominem and in my opinion very inappropriately, ugly Minister Marić, I don't think that's what man deserved and I'm sorry that he had to listen to it in the House and things that have nothing to do with the subject that's being run here and I don't think a man should attack ad-hominem. However, we are faced with a very clear situation. We in Croatia today have two major problems. One of them I'd say rude, organisational and security, which is that you don't know if the government has or doesn't have most or doesn't have, and who has, and who doesn't have support, and the other one is Agrokor. Agrokor is the essential problem of Croatia, the most important and will be dealt with by any government in due time, there are real problems that have not yet gone out and will likely start going out during the summer and especially after summer and will long have to be dealt with. And in the case of Agrokor, Minister Maric himself felt that he must be exempt because of the fact that he worked there for many years, including at the time when the financial reports were faked. I know he didn't write financial reports, he didn't sign, he didn't write, but the financier, he worked at the company, he sold her financials between the other profiles and the international market, so he had to know something about it. And that fact along with his, in my opinion, honest knowledge, that's exactly why you need it because it's connected to a company in that situation. that it must be excluded because enough argument that it cannot be Minister of Finance... /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37975	Time's up, I'm sorry. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37976	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pusic, I agree with you, so we need to define that ruling majority. It is up to us and the government to define it the moment we begin to appoint or select the ministers the prime minister has resolved. Then it will be up to us here on this right hand side of the assembly to collect enough votes to show a clear majority in the Croatian Parliament. This is derived from the Constitution, from the Law on Government, from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so from all documents. And that attempt to shift the need for proof to us, I'm not taking it too seriously. That's what those who asked will have to prove. If Minister Maric succeeds, he will no longer be Minister of Finance. So, it's clear to me, I'm not, I'm... I'm not personally having any problems. And I agree with you when you mention Agrokor, but I'm trying to sort of explain to myself when the finance minister is going to have to make another statement and exclude and exclude himself from a decision on Agrokor. As far as I've studied and understood the Act on Agrokor, or to simplify his name, this job has taken over, the decision on Agrokor's extraordinary administration where and the commercial court, where there are also creditors where... council and extraordinary commissioner. So it's up to them to handle it now. I don't see exactly when they're gonna have to turn it on again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37977	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37978	Your Honor. I am surprised to you that you are explaining and defending our Minister Marić from insinuating charges of his conflict of interest and guilt of responsibility. And you explain it to those who said they were killed in Bleiburg not innocent but are not only not in court proceedings proven so you might want to euthanize Mr. Maric, remove him from the political scene in a similar way. We're talking about successful governments, we're talking about getting out of the crisis and conflict of interest. The successful government was when they took out loans, pulling out the prime minister's brother's crisis by lending his wife of 250 thousand euros she wisely invested, and they got out of the crisis and there's no conflict of interest. And none of them noticed Mr. Bacic. As an ex-cop, I enjoy these discussions because more and more I get to the evidence, nice ratting is in action, you catch a thief, he betrays 10. Finally, we will get results in this Croatian Parliament as I said this morning when we look into each other's eyes, when we look at each other and we will see empty chairs of some former ministers, and we will get to who is the bailiff, who has not pitted in this Croatian Assembly. Here's my colleague, Djujic, and I'll tell you something, you're making a lot of noise in this Croatian Parliament, you're giving yourself a lot of importance, and I wouldn't have, you know, you've been here longer than me, you say 2 mandates, you haven't noticed that Milanovic has guessed possible to his brother and was in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37979	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37980	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Culey, I may not have the need to defend the finance minister too much, because this morning he and the prime minister and vice president from everything they say, I don't think there was anything in particular to elaborate yet, but just out of fact not only did I speak for the club but instead of working with Zdravko Marić for six years in government, we were also State Secretarys, later and as Minister and I know how much the job he was doing at the Ministry of Finance before worked quality, so then I met him in a certain way and here as a parliamentary representative where he was Minister of Finance. And I know what's been going on over the past year since the Minister of Finance and it's been a commitment. As far as the other one is concerned, it wasn't the only one, it wasn't the only loans, it wasn't the only affairs that connected to that government. But you know what, the easiest thing to come is to hold a thief so someone doesn't catch him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37981	Representative Miroslav Tudjman reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37982	Thank you, Mr. President. Our colleague Bačić, today we witness one misery and misery of a political culture that dominates the Croatian Parliament. Clearly, the crisis in Agrokor is a threat, a danger of destabilising Croatia's economy, and it is clear that the government has taken the decision to neutralize it. But what is not clear and this is the behaviour of the opposition that has come up with unarranged arguments, did not ask for a finding or a solution, the report by the Commission on a possible conflict, did not wait to see in a few weeks, I assume that we will get basic, fundamental, relevant information about the situation in Agrokor, but was simply declared in advance by the Minister of Finance with all possible charges going to his account, on the account of the party, on the charge of Agrokor as if a priori was one firm, an economic firm where everything is negative. It is a political humanity, which simply will not lead us anywhere because the causes, the reasons are far more complex and will not be resolved as counterpart Pusic said in a short time. So what we need is one rational analysis and we start acting like a civilized country. This to look for the guilty, that we have these statements that individuals are here and in the role of prosecutors and judges and jury and executioners is simply politically unacceptable. Therefore, we need to change political culture, we need to amend the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work and finally Realize that, that the charges are like this [[President: Time is up. Thank you.]] species are simply not suitable for this time. [[Adversity President: Representative Tudjman, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37983	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37984	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Tudjman, I think we were all aware when the crisis occurred in Agrokor, that this earthquake that Agrokor had conditioned in view of the importance and participation in the financial and economic system would shake the state. That's what we were, we weren't naive at first when it started. Because too much importance in Croatia's life has this company to go through with just passing the law. But I also have to say that I didn't even hope that solving the fate of Agrokora would be part of a pre-election campaign for local elections. Who and how, to what extent will our fellow citizens assess in these local elections. I believe that there were both places and ways and opportunities for all participants in Croatia's political life through solving Agrokor's problems to help get out of his crisis as quickly as possible. And if somewhere in the last few years it's taken a consensus on something, then we should have had it on the Agrocora problem, on the crisis in Agror. Agrokor's business has tangled a large number of governments on the left, whether right-wing. Each of us through Agrokor of us, so from the participants in this political life, knew at certain times, and we can't say that we didn't know. We may not have known the depth of the Agrokor problem, but everyone who was in those governments knew something was going on there. And we can't close our eyes today. Therefore, pointing my finger at them, they think of us as It does not bring good to them, nor does it bring good to us. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]] And he's the worst. does not bring good things to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37985	Thank you. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37986	Thank you very much. Our colleague Bačić, we are actually not happy to have this debate today, because after you formed the government together with MOST, we were prepared to be four years of opposition and through our constructive contribution to contribute and increase parliamentaryism, the reputation of parliamentaryism, but also better life in Croatia. Unfortunately, the crisis that happened with Agrokora has led us to these moves for the simple reason that there is one saying. "The world is not threatened by the evil of those who do it, but by those who allow it to be done." So our responsibility was to point out what we consider to be controversial in the case of Agrokor and to threaten further collapse of the stability of the Croatian state. You said our argument wasn't extensive enough. Well, you know, when you write some thesis that these thesis are explained on a smaller amount of paper, they're more quality. If you have to explain it to a long and wide thing, it's wrong. And you're wrong when you talk about conflict of interest. Therefore, the definition of conflict of interest under our law is that the aim is to prevent the influence of the private on public decision-making. And in this, it is not just family members and families that you stated correctly in the case of Zdravko Marić but there are connected persons who can be all persons who, under certain circumstances, may be in an interesting relationship with the official. And since Zdravko Maric comes from Agrokor, there is no dilemma that there is an interesting connection between him and the leaders in Agrokor, primarily Ivica Todorovic. That is why there is a basis for conflict of interest, so what we are constantly asking is how it is possible that Zdravko Marić as the Executive Director for Strategy and Market which was his capital function did not know the true state of Agrokor's balance which served as the basis for borrowing concerts And that led to all these problems that we have today. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37987	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37988	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Jovanovic, I think it is right that, at the end of the day, it is also the job of the opposition, that at a certain point when we assess it as necessary, whether for all political interests or for our interests, it goes into the process of recalling a particular minister, government, prime minister or government as a whole. And it's your legitimate political project, a move, let's call it whatever we want. And I don't doubt that. I tell you, I don't blame you, but I did mention it part of the time when you're talking about solving problems in Agror. I believe that what the government has proposed, what we have adopted, is this law that it has allowed Croatia's financial stability, that it has given a certain period of time in which these dubiosis can be resolved. That he had given time to appoint an extraordinary administration, to determine if you wanted, what was important to determine if it was forgeries, if it was a fake to establish, to process those who were guilty if it was. But what's more important is to allow the normal further business of these employees and further business with those suppliers that follow this Agrokor alone. I think your position in which you were against this law, called for the implementation of a pre-demand settlement or bankruptcy that would be very bad for Croatia, and that's the difference that I tried to say between you and us that I think you should have been with that law and helped to maybe solve some things. And this question you're talking about will come out anyway if you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37989	She's a representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37990	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, I agree with everything you said in your debate, but today, however, a lot of ugly words and very difficult accusations have been made against Minister Maric. If Minister Maric had kept the whole of Croatia in crisis, if Minister Maric had said this, he should resign, he should leave, I wonder why he should go. Because his résumé says he worked in Agrokor for a short period, so I don't think that's why he's leaving the Croatian government. And I ask you, is it best that the Republic of Croatia doesn't do anything, then no one will accuse you of anything. I don't think Minister Maric would have done a single wrong move, not one wrong step against the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think that he would have shamed his honest and honorable family, because Minister Maric is an honorable man and I don't see here any real argument or evidence that he should resign and leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37991	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37992	Thank you, Mrs. Maximchuk. I agree that during the morning in his presentation, the prime minister cited the reasons why he stood behind the minister. Knowing the prime minister, and knowing Zdravko, I think he did the right thing, and I'm sure there were reasons to suggest that he would not stand so tightly behind the finance minister, that the government and the prime minister would not personally stand behind him. I'm more than sure about that. And what the prime minister said this morning would be the same way that he would stand behind any other minister, so he would be from the HDZ quota or from our friends' quota at MOST. It's the only right way for me. While I am convinced that your burden has not been proven, while I trust you, then it is our duty to defend the minister in such a way and I think it is the least we should do to preserve the truth that we hold the Minister of Finance, as well as the prime minister of the government's office this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37993	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37994	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, it is not easy for you to defend what the entire Croatian public sees. So when we look at certain research when we look at what people are saying, how they think you're going to see that it's exactly the opposite of what you're saying here. And explaining the legitimate demand for opposition after things that are really speculative, which the whole of Croatia thinks should not happen, that the problem in the work of the ministry, the minister and the government explain it to some envy what you have solved the Agrokor problem, indeed seems somewhat surreal and as a fairy tale. Because I'd really like to get rid of the Agrokor problem, but we're just gonna see how it ends. I sincerely hope that the company will succeed in making some adjustments to the new circumstances and transformations. Of course I don't think it's possible to maintain her in that extent she was in until yesterday, but to put that opposition as the main argument that made her go with the recall, I think it's unserious. I think our people know and see and feel whether Minister Maric is burdened, so here he is today at the end and I said that the burden is on the government and then it is completely unclear why you continue to insist that nothing dramatic happened there that he was wrongly accused. That kind of reminds me, as you've been saying for a week now, that you have a majority that you can't show. That's it. So you're saying things that just can't be seen by Croatian citizens. So on that side please, get serious, try to do something to restore citizens' trust and in us here in The Croatian Parliament, but also in the Croatian Government. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37995	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37996	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Marasa. I disagree with you. I'm not having a hard time defending the Minister of Finance. You said it wasn't easy for me, I don't think it's hard for me. Here I have to say it's really not hard for me. From what I've read, how hard I've made an effort to see how difficult these are the arguments and the evidence that Minister Maric has charged me, it's not hard for me. I'm not fooled by the way they're saying public-change interrogations. We may not have been able to show enough in the present time to see how the Minister of Finance is really not responsible, but certainly people are very sensitive to the situation in Agrokor, and if you point a finger at someone, a single avalanche of dissatisfaction with citizens who do not live well, and then the easiest thing to do is to find Pedro who is responsible for it all together. From what I see, what I read, me and those reasons why he should retire and why he should be relieved, I haven't found them. And I didn't say that honey and milk flow around Agrokor, however, there will still be a lot of challenges around Agrokor and I hope that it will get over them, but I think that it is that he comes out of these problems that this government has drawn out and that the Parliament has adopted for me was the only possible thing, because everything else that would have happened to me, I won't say chaos, but at this point I can't see what it would have been if it had started to collapse the system after it was completely blocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37997	Representative Ivan Šipic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bacicu, you said a very good sentence, not the target of Minister Maric, but everything leads to the government being the target. So much insult today is expressed at the expense of Minister Maric that my mother is ashamed to watch this today and not us who participate in these several hours of unspective debates. A minister who's on trial for what we heard today has no right to air and let alone credit as a private person. And I think you'll agree, this is a fight for local elections and the rise of gunfights between individuals and parties as if citizens can't wait for the left option looks like this day, very impatient. Talking about Agrokor like this is killing a healthy climate around this company but the worst thing for people living for this company and this company. Those whose foreign trade chains are priority rub their hands watching as they and we all here present who should head and attitude, hands and feet, and not just pulsism do everything to keep all the chains and system of Agrokor and others alive based on the protection of the law recently adopted. We bear witness today that the law passed not long ago to protect thousands of jobs, the main weapon for the replacement of Minister Maric. Isn't that an absolute twist of thesis? What kind of message this debate sends today is to people who do business or want to do anything not only with Agrokora but also in any other economic branch. I think it's time we all asked ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u37999	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38000	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you with a supplement, Mr. Šipić. So here and this law wasn't protected no matter who owned it, the more the question is how many more does anyone own when they're this big of a commitment to the believers. Thus, the system was primarily protected here, the financial system of the state, the economic system of the state, protected by employees, protected by numerous suppliers, primarily by the OPGs and small suppliers, who would be the worst to pass if this concert had ended in bankruptcy. The big ones would already take care of themselves as the song says. Therefore, it was first here to protect the financial and economic system of the state, in order to protect employees and all those who are leaning on the system and how much and how much the owner will have of all of this together, I think it won't be much, given the claims that are going towards Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38001	Representative Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38002	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, a 10 minute break because we're here all the time talking about the same thing and we didn't get any answers, so I would once again ask the Prime Minister a loud and clear question without the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38003	I'm setting a break of 20 minutes. SURPRISE IN 18.51 HOURS We're going back to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.10 HOURS]] Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38005	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I was looking for a break on behalf of the MOST club because the fact is, I'm sorry there is no Prime Minister here without the majority and Mr. Maric, the current one also means a minister not supported by most. And the basic question is why we don't get answers all the time. We have an empty debate, and we don't have a single answer to any key questions. We asked questions both the minister and the prime minister without the majority of Plenkovic why many laws were amended that favoured, in fact, Agrokor, why the change of the factoring law in 2016. He says he's the one who welcomed it. Minister Maric also said he was the director of the Department of Strategy, that in Agrokor, he did not sign anything, that he was there in the land of wonders, that he had no idea what was in Agrokor. However, Croatian citizens must know whether Minister Maric knew that HBOR had 20% bad placements and each bank would have already failed, and such a situation should not be allowed, and especially at the time when a man from Agrokor warned HBOR that 300 million kuna was given and while he assures the public that everything is okay, Agrokor 300 million kuna is credited to Agrokor. He's twice tried to shut down the IRS. Reduces property tax, reduces the number of years. Instead of introducing a tax, to introduce essentially a new law, we here are the people's representatives on the origin of the property and that everyone, to take away the property of those who have brought the entire economic system into this situation we are absolutely doing the opposite and this is what Minister Maric's proposal did. So it was seen to protect against those, from the time Sanader and those before who basically brought the entire system into collapse. The fact that we've been discussing various topics all day, that Prime Minister Plenkovic has come here full of Eva Sanader-style elanas. That he got a hand like Karamarko and Jadranka Kosor, and a particularly great leader when they yelled "where to Ivo and me". However, there was no reason not to continue investigations at this time against criminals who allowed the Croatian state to be dependent on one man, but this is all the scenario of the same people who, from Valentic, Gregoric, saw that they woke up, who led to the shadow of Bozinovic, who led the whole process from the shadows and who brought the entire economic system into question, not only the question. So when it was a better time to deal with criminals and take away their property, to process them, than at this point when Agrokor was in charge so much that the entire economic system was supposed to be destroyed even when we were supposed to be saving hundreds of thousands of jobs at the last minute. But it's a pain in the ass. Not only torment, but one boast, so I'd say the Pharaoh's decision that the people who tried and did everything to investigate these financial malfeasances, to be expelled from the government, i.e. that the ministers, for no reason, are evicted from one session for the first time in history. Yeah, that's what Plenkovic did, but he shot himself in the knee because he lied to the whole public about having a majority. He picks up something, hens down the club, walks to the halls, but it's time for Plenkovic to come out and say whether he has a majority for parliament or not. Otherwise, he's not the prime minister, and this people won't forgive what he did the moment we had to deal with the criminals who brought this situation to the state. I'm sorry he left, it was on a couple of lines. We didn't have the possibility of a Brussels boy asking a few more questions. But he's gone. We don't even have a finance minister anymore. So they don't care at all. And it would be much fairer if there were no 76 signatures for the parliamentary majority to disband this assembly and return to the people's mandates. Because what Plenkovic's doing didn't do, I don't even know Ceausescu, and I don't know who, and he's acting like some kind of A great pro-European politician, which is false. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38006	Thank you. A representative of the SDP who has applied for participation in the debate will be represented by a representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38007	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a little break she cleared out the assembly, even from the government's representatives. I see the minister and the minister are gone, it would be good if they were here and we could communicate and get some answers, answers that we're interested in. The fact is that Croatian citizens looking at us today can get a few impressions. The first and most important thing is that we have a major crisis of government, that we have a problem with the fact that HDZ and partners, or those who remain in the coalition, are unable to manage the country because they simply do not have enough representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And we are in a stalemate position which is also a crisis that has culminated with the situation of conflict of interest not only Minister Maric, who is visible and all Croatian citizens are aware of this conflict of interest. So, the vast majority of Croatian citizens recognize it, but also other ministers and ministers in the government who are obviously having problems with some conflicts of interest. So I wouldn't call this government a government of conflict of interest but a government of interest or a fund of interest, but not of public interest, but of those who want to put private interest ahead of the public. What Croatia needs is stability and security, which is why the state exists. The state does not exist to have a crisis every six months, to go to elections, and to offer no perspective but to offer responsibility for security and to offer citizens a certain perspective. No one's happy if they have to go out in a year and a half twice in the election. I do not believe that you will find anyone in Croatia who will say it is good, so it should be done and the more choices it is better. But it's not the opposition's fault and responsibility for what happened. Twice, the citizens of Croatia trusted HDZ and the MostST to establish power, and we saw twice how it ended. Croatian citizens have the right to decide for the third time and break this agony and allow Croatia stability and security, a stable government that will take responsibility after the election and solve their problems. You can be sure that none of the SDP's ministers, nor in the future, will be in this position in which, for example, Minister Maric and other ministers in the HDZ government have now found themselves. So this colossal of interest is terribly difficult to untangle. No one in this assembly and I believe more widely that Minister Maric didn't know anything about Agrokor's business. It is already a sufficient fact, given the problems that Agrokor has now caused the Croatian economy and the risk taken by the government and the Croatian state to solve these problems, it is already sufficient argument that Minister Maric cannot remain a minister. It's not just been there for four years, he's been there for four years on a very responsible duty, it doesn't matter how much he was paid, I won't talk about it now, it's irrelevant, but the simple success of his work is necessarily linked to the success and position of the Agrokor which is now completely at stake in this situation. On the other hand, how difficult it is to work in the position of the Minister of Finance after you come from such a system, he tells you a few laws. Here we were talking about factoring, and now what's worth to Croatian citizens is an apology that welcomed him. So what if it was waiting for him. It was not necessary to extend the fulfilment of the factoring law once more. Because this is not what I think is about some of the impossible conditions for factoring society, but it is only that the factoring society did not want to do because most of the markets were tied to Agrokor and thus avoided HANFA supervisory, very simply. Did Minister Maric know that as the person responsible for the capital market in Agrokor? Well, he had to know and he shouldn't have come into that position. A month after becoming a minister, he allowed some more factoring time for companies not to meet the requirements, not to enter the HANFA registry and not to be audited daily by HANFA to see how much they are exposed to Agrokor. And according to the information we now have, according to Agrokor, more than 3.5 billion kuna are exposed. This is information that is repeatedly confirmed in the media by those who are responsible, who have information that is accurate. The second thing, the HBOR chairman of the Supervisory Board, the finance minister prepares agenda points, according to the Supervisory Board's Rules of Procedure. The HBOR Board shall prepare a draft agenda for the HBOR Supervisory Board and shall include these points which the Supervisory Board must consider and the loans it must approve. Since it was a loan and loans worth nearly $400 million, the Supervisory Board had to do so. Who can believe now even though the minister said he would be excluded, that he did not talk to the chairman of the administration or administration, that they participated in preparing those points for the supervisory board, whether he eventually voted on those points on the board of directors or not. And let me remind you, these 400 million kunas of public money, where now Minister Dalic was just reading and saying that the decision-making paper was as if companies were in perfect condition looking maybe separatically, but looking inside the concerts and the burdens they already had on them by guaranteeing other companies were certainly not. So that's where either someone did an unprofessional job or I'd say it went with incomplete documentation. Because how to explain that after two months or three months of granting credit to Agrokor to get into trouble and that most likely Croatia is left without 400 million kuna. That is the second reason that I think it is also crucial and that the minister cannot remain in place. And I asked Minister Dalic once at a time, if that money was paid because when a loan is granted, you don't have to pay off the loan immediately. So the HBOR usually pays not immediately money but succesic and depending on certain activities. And it would be good to see and I now ask here both the Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister if they asked for supervision of how the loan was paid, which companies and for what these companies used the loan for. Because if companies were to use a loan for example for a particular investment, for a re-promatter or for the preparation of exports, which I think is HBOR's intensity to help the company and he was used to pay for a loan or some tranche for some other company within the system someone committed a criminal offence. But someone missed it, someone missed the control so it wouldn't happen. So there's a lot of aspects to be questioned here. And I'll tell you one more thing, when you look at it all together again, the person who came from that system that was in charge of the capital market cannot convince anyone in Croatia that there is no one on either side of the information, contact, conversation, etc. As much as that person claimed to be working only in the interest of one side. Well, it's impossible if for four years someone's spent professionally with the company's top management that they didn't get much of a relationship. So does anyone believe, for example, that Mr. Boric and Mrs. Majda of Gorski Kotar, who hang out together, are from the same county and now in four years, Mr. Boric goes to another firm, so don't you believe that Mrs. Majda can contact him directly? It's that kind of relationship. When a person cooperates closely, on the other hand, a certain and informal relationship is created that puts a person in a position of conflict of interest. And that's the problem. And that is why nobody in Croatia at this time trusts Mr. Maric that he, in the position of Minister of Finance, could function solely in the interest of only one party and here this public side. As far as accounting reporting is concerned, we have also seen certain amendments to the rules that could potentially affect a better overview of the situation regarding Agrokor and the whole situation which unfortunately eventually escalated. It's enough elements and I think it's the work of the opposition, I don't think it's the job of the opposition not to warn, not to criticize, not to point to irregularities, but rather to point to the weakness of the government and in this situation, the weakness of the government has also shown itself through the fact that the partners of yesterday have also stopped and supported this opposition proposal. So in this situation, even the people who were inside, who were partners, who were cooperating, they said it was wrong and the minister is in conflict of interest, should leave whether or not it was or who it was. There are no personal matters involved, it is a matter of principle and it is a matter of certain standards that should be respected in Croatia. As harsh as that sounds, yes, the minister and his trust and by the public are damaged, threatened and thus poses a certain burden to the government's functioning. And the opposition is obliged to warn that. The opposition is the one who wrote the proposal, as detailed as it was, long, short, reasoned, it has pointed to problems that must be removed and we hope it will be removed tomorrow. And now it's not a party issue, it's not a question of who's coming, who's not coming. Tomorrow, it is voted on whether we as representatives accept standards that will not, which will allow our citizens to have greater faith in us as politicians and ministers sitting in the Croatian government. Whoever deafens to it will simply show that everything is allowed. I'm not surprised HDZ is ready for that. HDZ has repeatedly shown in history that he doesn't mind, that he doesn't mind that Sanader has 10 hours, that he doesn't mind when someone comes overnight for the prime minister and leaves without explaining why he left. If he didn't mind having mayoral candidates, here's the other day I'm watching Mr. Plenkovic in Virovitica, next to him is Ivica Kirin, who admitted to driving for the HDZ state budget but doesn't mind Mr. Plenkovic standing side by side with Mr. Kirin. So me, I'm not surprised that HDZ doesn't mind. But I am surprised that some MPs who may not only be tied to the party and interestingly to the right are covering, for example, national minorities that they are deafening to these moral standards. So on this side, I expect all MPs and national minorities to look at the core of the problem, to see if people believe that a person like Zdravko Maric is in a situation where he finds out whether he can do the job in the future, without calculating, without whether it means it or not, and what perspective it means to the current Croatian government and what kind of repercusion he will have in the future political situation. It should be said at this point whether it's acceptable behavior or not. Because if we say it's acceptable to behave, then every next minister will be able to get into that situation and behave in certain circumstances in that way. As far as the SDP is concerned, it's not allowed to behave, and I hope it won't resonate any other representatives' clubs, except I told the HDZ that I've witnessed in the past many times and that it's easy for them all to do as long as you're their own. When you leave, like now, the MOST has left the coalition, you become the worst. But if you're theirs, brother, do whatever you want, we'll keep you safe and defend you. So Plenkovic acted until yesterday when he criticised Karamark there could be no man to be a burden on the government and the party, today no one is talking about it, I will stand behind anyone if it is mine. It's not principled behavior, it's behavior that says that Mr Plenkovic too began to act [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] in the way in which it solely suits him [[The President's intrusion: Time's up, thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Adversity President: Representative Maras, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38008	Representative Ivan Pernar requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38009	Thank you, Your Honor. This HDZ government has actually led the country to a new election, and this gathering of their majority is nothing but a matchdown and it's actually a desperate move. I don't even know what the point of this debate is when it's known in advance that this government doesn't have a majority. And I wonder why Minister Maric and Mr Plenkovic don't just come here and say ok. We realized, we made a mistake, we lost in this game, we quit, we go to new elections. I don't get it. And I can't figure out how much blindness and irresponsibility can have a minister who doesn't enjoy the support and trust of neither the citizens, nor the parliamentary majority, probably not the people within his own party, i.e. Not likely, but certainly, and who is really harassing us all here and will be harassing us for a long time until midnight and after midnight. That's not clear to me. Why is there no shame and why doesn't he resign? There's a lot to be done without him in government, and we're not crazy about him. We can't wait for him to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38010	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38011	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, the reason is simple because Plenkovic is trying to do what you said to collect one, two, three. But I think what's the point of that. What kind of government is that? What kind of stability is that? So now we're talking about whether tomorrow's vote will be 77 against or 76, but it won't be more than 72, three. That's the majority HDZ has now. What is the point of such a cramping Prime Minister sticking to it and not being able to show that he is able to bring together the majority he will manage Croatia. So should Croatia be another month to the local elections in the cramp and in, I would say, today he said I will determine the moment when I will show it. So he sent a very clear message. We'll wait until the local elections, and then I'll try to catch someone else. So what's statehood? What is politics? If you tried to rip someone apart because you think at the moment when local elections are at stake, someone might not, and when the local elections pass, then maybe you would. Is that the support of Croatian citizens? Do Croatian citizens really want to get back in their hands to decide who will lead Croatia. This is not statehood, and because of this, Mr. Pernar, I am convinced tomorrow that I hope to vote in favour of most votes, means over 76 recalls by Minister Maric and that Prime Minister Plenkovic will be able to make the only possible right decision. Because if that doesn't happen tomorrow, then we'll have another couple of months until the same result again, and Croatia doesn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38012	Representative Mato Frankovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38013	Dear colleague Maras, in your presentation, you said this was the government of conflict of interest. 16 times the Committee of Conflict of Interest gave the red light to your officials. I don't know what you'd call that former government. You also said that no SDP minister was in the position of these ministers. So it seems to me that you forgot about the case of Jakovina, on the Linic case, so we can remember lower officials like Shegon. What was the situation in Agrokor at the time when Minister Maric worked there? And that's clear. We have a clear answer. So the agencies made it clear that the credit rating of Agrokora was at B level with stable prospects, which was retained until early 2017. And about HBOR, the way HBOR worked, and what was happening there, so we know clearly what was going on at the time of your government when HBOR gave 250000 euros to Miglom for car washing and what was it then. However, what you did not say today is the crime of Mr. Maric. Did he alienate someone's money? His only crime is that he worked in Agrokor. What's supposed to be on the labour market? Or do nothing in life? Is that supposed to be? So we have a man who's capable and you claim to be capable. The only crime you're putting on his back is that a man worked in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38014	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38015	It's not the only crime scene. But now I'm not going to repeat what I've already said 10 times today. So, I mean, honestly, there's no point in me repeating the same thing over and over again. Take a stenogram and read what I said. It's not the only crime scene. Read this proposal too, and you'll see that there are a few things that we listed inside. And I just don't know how to convince you if you don't want to hear it. So his crime wasn't just what he was doing to Agrokor. We have to set certain standards. You referred to some former officials who left the government of Zoran Milanovic after, in some cases, escalating. You mentioned a loan that was tied to one of the HBOR officials. So, we used to get in that situation, sometimes a little late, sometimes some things could have been avoided but we used to set ourselves up. Sometimes someone flew out of the government maybe for something you wouldn't have taken off if it had happened later. We were also hypersensitive to certain behaviors, so you can't compare this. I guarantee you, if Milanovic had such a situation, Minister Maric would no longer be a minister. Here's what I can guarantee you. Yeah, because it's not normal. So you probably wouldn't even be a minister then, but if this whole thing escalated together, you wouldn't be a minister. So make sure that we've stuck to our standards, and around Jakovina, look, we'll see what's going to come out of it, it's still on the right portals of gossip than, unfortunately, there's no regrets perhaps there's truth in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38016	Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38017	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, I agree with you that the standards we must set in politics every day should be raised. There are Western developed countries where ministers resign for much less. You mentioned the case here also Mr. Ivica Kirina from Virovitica who is again a candidate for mayor, and he is burdened with serious accusations that it is not to say with special attention managed public money, even the more public money was transferred to party or other purposes. So what's important and what we can conclude from this debate, that the Republic of Croatia has to raise these standards more and more and even even the laws that we've passed, we've passed here the Law that can't be run by persons who are convicted, who are convicted of certain crimes, but I don't think we'll ever solve it by law. We will simply resolve by raising the awareness and level of people to realize that anyone who manages public money must be particularly careful and that this public money must not be used for any purpose other than public well-being because this directly affects the fates and quality of life of people. What might be imposed from this debate as one of the specific problems, and the case here was somewhere in thought around Zagreb when a businessman came to a politician and said, "Listen to me, I need help with work." That's what that politician told him, I'm not setting up anybody's business to get him out of the office, here he says you didn't understand me. I want out of work. I don't think I'd like that case here with Minister Maric, that he may not even be allowed to leave this place, but you understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38018	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38019	Look, I'm sure what you said people are wondering why it's so important, why it's so tight behind something that's so obvious. And then there are various theories, so Prime Minister Plenkovic was talking today about that these are some conspiracy theories, this, what, that people from MOST are at the border of paranoia, and they're thinking about what might be behind it, but when you're not responding, when you're defending something that's insecure then people are really starting to wonder if there's something behind it that's even harder, even more serious. Maybe there's something really trying to hide that shouldn't be revealed or that would compromise someone else. As for Kirin, he wasn't recklessly managing public money. He himself said that in the first next HDZ presidency session, he praised former HDZ President Sanader for his first solution to Fimi Media, so he praised his efficiency, that he first took the money from public funds and pushed it into the HDZ cash register. And this man has been here for seven years, he can be like this in contact and conversations likable, so the man has committed a serious crime. There's nothing to do in politics. After seven years, there is no procedure, and Prime Minister Plenkovic stands with him in Virovitica and nominates him, stands behind him as the mayor of Virovitica. It is unfortunately the "new" Plenkovic's HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38020	A representative of the government has requested an address. Minister Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38021	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A few observations as I have announced that on several occasions I will try to present some more details. So by preparing for this today's presentation and debate I somehow tried to think about which one of the representatives might speak on behalf of which club individually what to say and so forth, I'm glad that Mr. Maras spoke on behalf of the SDP club, also mentioning HBOR. You've noticed that I have no intention at all, nor in all my 15 months of mandates have I intended to go too far into some kind of past and use that rhetoric that was quite common, you're this, we're that and so on. But I need to clarify some facts again. Today we are talking about HBOR four successful companies in the Agrokor concert system, which was given consent by the HBOR Supervisory Board to which I am in charge and we all know about it. But let's check each other out, who's head of the administration at that point? The people you've set up, the people you've worked with for four years. Also in those four years approved loans to the same companies from Agrokor concert. Am I troublesome? No, I don't. Am I saying that these people did something wrong? No, I don't. That administration you set up didn't approve that loan either. There are systems of analysis, risk assessments, legal services not to list any further, 20 to 30 people per credit party to be processed. If I, as today's finance minister and president of the HBOR Supervisory Board, said they're no good, I'm certainly not going to let that happen, no matter how much you attack me. The other thing, the factoring law, ladies and gentlemen, please give it one more time, I said one statement before, and I see that some portals are writing about it now, but really, really, I'm not that Superman, so I can't do anything about it. Well, the factoring law was in this House 94 hands for and seven abstentions, none against. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The law was passed in 2014, prolonged in 12 months, I have already said, by a regulation with legal force in 8 months 2015, once again and then we have this one called by the controversial Minister Zdravko Marić, I do not know what miracle I managed to trick all of you here in the Croatian Parliament and the entire government and my public, and I do not know what to do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The accounting law, it's gone now, Mr. Hajdash-Doncic a little, not just before, this morning he told me everything was as if he had just been, he also said some sort of prank again. 121 votes for, 3 abstentions, no one against. So, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about here? What changed in the Accounting Act? The provision has been lifted. I won't honor you, I think you had a good intention, I spoke to the people in the IRS when they originally proposed that there be a single continuum plan. But a unique contiguous plan, employers entrepreneurs of great, if I tell someone now you will immediately honor me that their player to the smallest ones have said please, please do not prescribe us this provision because it is unnecessary and very expensive. I've analyzed why it was the original idea of your government and I don't think you meant anything by it, to comply with some tax regulations with financial reports but it turns out that it doesn't make sense. And I, as the responsible finance minister, propose to the government the law and come before you to the Croatian Parliament and you all give me support and it's my fault now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38022	Agent Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38023	Mr. Maric, it's your fault. You are guilty because without proper mortgage you allowed HBOR Ivica Todorovic or his private company Agrokor whose employee you were to lend a Christmas loan of 274 million kuna. Yes, Mr. Maric, that's your fault. When a farmer asks for a loan to build a farm of milk cows, then he must mortgage not only his farm but his own house. But when Ivica Todorovic, your boss yesterday and we see that you are still in his service seeking credit he does not have to pawn his castle, he does not have to pawn his castle, Mr. Maric. Why didn't you ask Ivica Todorovic to pawn his castle, his helicopter, his limousine? Why? Why? And why are you asking a simple peasant to mortgage his home? Because you don't care about these people who are blowing up bombs and hanging out today, you're only worried about your boss whose interests you're protecting here today and pretending you don't know why we're arguing here. It turns out that we are here by mistake, that you are right, that you are not in conflict of interest and that the entire Croatian public has come down from their minds, conspired against you, has something personal against you. Unfortunately, sir, Your Honor, I'm afraid you're the one who's out of your mind, not all of us together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38024	Agent Pernar saved you from a sentence I'm afraid. I've warned you I can't allow insults and I'm seriously telling you that I'm going with warnings. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38025	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear MP, just before a press question outside the assembly whether I was able to convince the MPs of my arguments. I don't think I can convince you of anything. Whatever I say, I now explain to you again for the third time in any way and how institutions in the Republic of Croatia function and so does HBOR. You're still using the same structures. I've approved something for someone as an individual, as a minister, as chairman of the Supervisory Board, which is absolutely deplaced. I repeat once again, I understand your anger, anger, whatever it is to me, but please continue to ask you to maintain the level of dignity of the parliamentary representative, do not invalidate Croatian institutions. The same institution you can ask, you can ask, it is a banking secret but under certain circumstances you can discuss it and you will see that these loans were granted with adequate, appropriate insurance instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38026	Representative Gordan Maras has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38027	Thank you very much. You said one thing now, Mr. Maric, and that's that the factoring law here was voted and there were several MPs restrained, among them I remember that he was Bulj, I was also abstentioned. But what's important is that when you propose as a minister a certain law and I as a representative cannot have the information that you have, and especially cannot have the information that you've had working before in Agrokor. I'm sure you knew Agrokor used the method of funding through the regression bonds. Did you know that? It probably is. ... If you knew Agrokor was using the regression rate method to finance his business then you knew that he had these bonds and in what size he had them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I, when I called HANFA, didn't want to tell me. I called, I called the director of HANFA to ask what the exposure of the entire market to Agrokor is. They didn't want to tell me because they said we don't have the legal possibility to make that announcement and that supervision public because the factoring of society didn't meet its requirements, they're not in our register, etc. I, as an agent and all these here representatives couldn't have that information but you as a minister and as an HBOR employee, you certainly had it. And there's a big difference between you and us. When you propose, you don't have to be Superman, but you know that you wrote in the law's explanation that Agrokor is exposed to 50%, 60% of that market, etc. Then you'd give us that information and then you'd have the right to call us out, which is why we voted for it for nine months to extend the deadline. This way when that information was gone, I can ask you why you didn't introduce us to it. Here I'm asking you here why you didn't introduce us as representatives – the government, the public and us and you knew it, because you came a month earlier from Agrokor. If you didn't know that A month before Agrokor what you knew. [[/The President's intrusion: Excuse me. Time's up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38028	Excuse me. Time's up. Minister Maric, you have the possibility of a longer answer because I was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38029	It's all right. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I'm glad to hear from you again. That's not true, you're one of those seven abstentioned, extremely insightful men, well done. But again, the reason for the prolongat of one provision of the factoring law was the deadline for the harmonisation of companies that provide factoring services. And now watch out for the surprises you're gonna pretend to be surprised or not surprised. Explanation of this provision of the same reasoning as you as Government used in the adoption of a regulation with legal force So you know why? [[Incursion President: Representative Gordan Maras, please do not enter the word!]] Well, I have to tell you the same thing when you said why you didn't. I've given two signatures all over my working life in Agrokor to a labor contract and to an end to a contract to work in agreement, whatever. [[/Intruder President: Representative Gordan Maras, I ask you not to enter the word, because I will really give a warning. Thank you.]] At the same time, I've never signed a note or seen it. But let me answer this when you say you didn't work in Agrokor. I have to tell you there are a lot of reasons that you and I know very well why you didn't. ... So tell me! [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Who asked you after your term in the private sector to go to work. What kind of offers did you get? ... [[- Intruder Maras, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38030	Excuse me. Representative Hajdukovic has already been raised by MP Hajdukovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38031	Mr. President, Article 238. With all due respect, Minister of this private qualification, I don't think they're in place. I think the labour market, too, and I don't think my colleague Maras deserves this treatment. Minister, I could ask a question right now and abuse this institute, but I won't. I think you need to show respect for us. As you are, you have chosen some people, and you have to show respect for us as representatives of the Croatian Parliament who represent Croatian citizens. In this way, I don't think you serve neither yourself nor would I tell your stranger, but you're supposed to be independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38032	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38033	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Maric hurt Rules of Procedure 238, so he personally insulted me. After my term as minister, I was elected to the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Maric, and I didn't need anyone to look for me. And I didn't want to do anything. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Wait a minute! [[Adversity President: Representative Maras.]] I have to answer. I could say that Mr. Maric is being set up in the government, but I'm not going to say that. [[/Intruder president: No. Representative Maras you can answer.]] Because Karamarko said that one call was enough for you to come...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38034	Representative Maras, I ask you to sit down. Representative Maras, I'll just say one thing. If I'm only going to watch this last part, on this last part, you've interrupted exposure and replication. So I could have warned you then. I warned you with a warning that I would go towards the warning, I didn't give you a warning. But I'd like you to understand a little bit of the person on the other side and try to refrain from being offended, but I don't think about you now, I mean all the MPs. Thank you. Representative Bozo Ljubic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38035	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the arguments are on your page, the results are on your page confirming independent domestic and foreign agencies. I am convinced that the public from today is at least on your side because it is also that the Parliament will show the same tomorrow. What I am concerned about here is for a year and over a year I have been following the debate here in Croatian political life, and that is the question of whether there is any threat, any problem in Croatia that can unite all political actors here to act constructively in solving the problem. Here's only in the last few months we've faced an attempt, or a government project to solve the INA problem. Part of the opposition constructs the alleged conflict of interest of Minister Dalic. We face it, the government solves the problem of Agrokor, the problem of over 150,000 existences in this country. A part of the opposition parties, unfortunately, with support, so until today's coalition partner MOST is obstructing the alleged conflict of interest of Minister Maric. So I see this as one political backbone, like one pulsism. What does populism mean? The population of politics is the same thing as the spine of art. [[Adjudicate President: Representative Hajdukovic gives you a warning, and after that I also go to other parliamentary deputies.]] Popularism characterizes the fact that today we have had the opportunity to hear the attack, the noise, the simplicity and all the simplification of all the problems. I beg you, I would like to hear here and see one union at least when these strategic, national interests are at stake. Unfortunately, that's not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38036	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38037	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, I hope that I will not hurt the Rules of Procedure now if I use the answer to your reply to the previous debate. You know well that my intention was never to offend or insult anyone in this Croatian Assembly, let alone offend the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, so for that reason, of course, I apologize. I had the impression that I was the only one who asked you a question, but I didn't mean any offense to direct it. Although if you are already quoting business provisions and so on, you also know well that as a guest of the government who is being tried today, I am sorry, I have suffered quite a number of insults today, and it seems to me that you have never once been respected representatives raised this white tile and said so give a little though pull the brake however he is and whatever the man of blood and meat is, so don't be so offended so low. But you kept it quiet, I asked one question whether I was right or not, so here's my apology if I didn't have one. Otherwise, on your replica, I can only confirm everything you've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38038	The SDSS representative's club reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak MP Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38039	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. A few words about the situation we've been brought into and the minister and we're here in the Parliament. If the minister should be a scapegoat that will be offered on the altar of what is not to be reached, then perhaps we will satisfy the need of the world around us, as well as our passions to show that we have offered the sacrifice. But it will be far from the justice and righteousness that this people expect and need. And no serious priest was in politics or outside of it such a sacrifice can bear to tell you that, to you who have dressed up to be priests and are trying to do so here today by turning this Parliament into a place of satisfaction of something of which 60% of those who say what should be done will have no use at all. They will be deceived, just as they had been deceived some earlier years. And my club won't agree to that deception or follow that deception. Neither the issue of the government crisis will be resolved nor the issue of Agrokor nor the serious and deep crisis of our economy and our society will be resolved. Many of you have worked with Minister Marić much longer than I have, so you are more invited to speak of him, so I will not speak. But one thing I do know, Agrokor hasn't fallen yet, because he was kept by a law that we all voted here, but Agrokor in the next few months, not Todorovic, but a concert with not knowing how many companies and I don't know how many thousands of employees didn't fall, but it could fall in the next month or two. It could fall. Not only can he pull a whole number of other companies, but those who have complete independence about him from his business, and represent several other leading Croatian companies, I will not mention them here from the duty of protecting their business, and they are also exposed. And what will the Croatian economy be on? On the victim? No, after that, we'll be the victims we'll be sitting in this House again, just a question of who's gonna wear that priestess to point out who he is. Maybe it won't be Maric, maybe it'll be Grmoja, for example. I'm telling you this from the deepest sense of responsibility to the place where I stand and to you that I address and to the public who listens to me. I know it's in vain, but it's my duty to say that my club's duty to understand politics in a way that in the past few days in this House doesn't even understand P of that policy, but I'll come to that. If someone's willing to deal with all the difficulties of the capitalist transition we've been through, let's go get caught, but in this way we won't catch anything from her. Nothing. Croatia has an unstable neighbourhood in the political and security sense of that word, whether by deepening its political crisis we will contribute to Croatia becoming a politically unstable country or at least a weakened political country, and will, will. Because what they listen to and watch clearly and those who evaluate and economic bonuses about those who evaluate our policy stability will say it's not that anymore. Well, to me as a Serb as some colleagues here and today and yesterday are not to worry about it, there are more invited. In the end, I'll say something about it, but I am giving myself the right to talk about it because that is what my years spent in this House and this politics and that is what my beliefs oblige me to do. There's something else I want to say. The majority that sits in this House and those who are not here right now are against this process being managed today and that we are hostage, hostages to the process that has affected this Parliament. Most MPs and MPs do not want elections, most of them on the left and on the right. And that's what to say. And it doesn't cost me anything to say, even if it costs me, I'll say it because I'm so used to political action because without costing, there's no serious policy. If you're not gonna pay for what you say and what you say, don't do politics. If you're going to talk to the public and follow what you've produced yourself as a public attitude and then tell me later I listen to the voice of the public you're not a politician of true and true form, you're not. Comrade Maras, you're not. There are others you should say that before, but you're closer to me and you know it. And those who sit behind you but have joined those who do not deserve to be told. So we let the water carry us. So if we are, let him carry us, the water is a verse of an uncontrollable way of talking about what's to be said here. If in politics it is allowed that people who are responsible for the state and its good leave them to be carried, led, then the people of it can have nothing, even when I think the people think it's his water and it's not, it's not. Because these people in Lipik and those in Belje and PICs won't have any use for this in the area of Eastern Slavonia. It'll only have a more insecure day. And they've had it for a long time because we don't have a political culture necessary for the division of power and the division of responsibility. If you're in a coalition then you know what it means, it's negotiation, it's bargaining, most often away from the public and away from the eyes and ears of the hungry media of every message that will show politics and politicians in the light of the need for those who master most of what our life is. And now I'm going to say something that I don't wish my colleagues hadn't warned me half an hour before this about a statement from some of our colleagues here. My colleague Grumo says let the election go because it will cost less than Milorad Pupovac and his representatives. He who says so knowingly deceives and lies, knowingly. And spreads the lowest passions in the manner of the most fascist forms of speech. I am obliged to say this here because some parties expose their faces to their right ultra-conservative political actions that say who can have the right to the public, who can participate in Croatian politics, who can participate in the formation of coalitions and who can't. Yeah, the easiest way to say Milorad Pupovac is to cost and cost this country. It's the easiest thing to wake up that kind of low passion and reach for something that we thought was long behind us. Now, if you're asking me why I'm and what's the SDSS club for? We're about to end this agony if it brings nothing. It doesn't. But you know what else we're up against? We are against it that those who view agony as the way we should live and act, we are against those who begin to glue badges on my chest and who start me and my colleagues at the SDSS Club and the minority mark me and who, by example, are modeling Nazi and fascist rhetoric as they did to the Jews now seem to us here. Feel free to be your colleague Maras, be free not to see where the danger lies and where everything comes from and where the great danger lies. Feel free and let the water carry you, but I will not let it carry me! Like I haven't given in 25 years. I'll know how to land! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38040	Representative Miro Bulj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38041	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Pupovac's representative violated Article 238 of Article 5, demeaning and insulting MPs by calling Nazi, making Nazi moves, that they were fascists. No one noticed calling even a fellow bush on a few occasions. So it's so far unseen in this House, that a group of people are declaring fascists and Nazis and I think you should have reacted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38042	Representative Ivan Pernar requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38043	Thank you. I'd like to tell my colleague, Milorad, this is one crazy game where we're all pawns and no matter what the outcome of the next election, the country's grumbling goes on. And that's what the Croatian people don't know. It means that whether you form most HDZ or SDP cars will still go downhill. And what's really the point of the whole story is that other than the car going downhill, those who are currently pushing them downhill from HDZ, they don't have a majority anymore. And now we all see that they're going downhill and they don't have most, and you're saving that car, but there's no saving them. That's my Milorad, you all the minorities to line up together just doesn't have 76 hands. And this battle you're fighting is lost in advance. And that's all I wanted to tell you, my dear Milorad. It's not there, there's no saving this government. All your intentions may be good and sincere, but this government doesn't have a future. But what's the biggest problem is that the Croatian people are blind, which the Croatian people don't see where this policy has been leading them for 25 years and what 25 years has voted for them and hopes for a different one. And on the other hand, part of the people says politics doesn't interest me and doesn't go to elections. And we're hostages to those who are programmed, to those who don't go to elections. And this Minister Maric assures us here that he has some appropriate guarantees for these HBOR loans. There's no guarantee, you'll see. Because if he did, he'd show. He'd pull his hand out of his sleeve and say the thing was clean, It's cheating on us all. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38044	The reply to the replica is Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38045	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ivan or as you said, my dear Ivan, it's not my place to tell you what I wanted to say, and even less to teach you what I meant. But I'll tell you again. There's no government without real politics, and I'm defending what I think is real politics. And I'm talking about what I think is a bad policy, a fatal policy. You are against capitalism in a way that shows the most inhuman face. So am I! But you would have to fight the obsession, against the illusion of fighting injustice against people, against the vision of fighting for state order and not fighting, but constantly destroying both its institutions and its democratic order and its potential democratic capacity. That's what this is about. And it's not just about preserving the elemental economic stability that we all care about, and it's not possible without an effective and stable government, either one or another. And on the other hand, it's about whether we're going to preserve the minimal civilization values that this country fought for and came out and became an EU member, and now some of our colleagues say I accused someone of being a fascist. Not yet, but it doesn't mean I won't. I was just talking about the Fascist Dictionary and Words and Fascist rhetoric. But if it's necessary, I'll point out the finger I think is a fascist.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38046	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38047	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pupovac, your motives can be anything. I have no ambition to impress you and to think of me as a politician of formats like some who led this country in the wrong direction, and they seemed to be politicians of a format like Sanader, remember him. But you have no right to tell me what I'm going to fight for, what my ideals are, what my standards are behind higher interests, without speaking in one word about these things that we stated in the request. I'm tired of hiding behind higher interests. Tell me, is this your acceptable behavior, Mr. Pupovac, what did we write in front of the club? Let go of the bridge, of the bush, of his statements, of the Bulls, etc. Tell me if this is acceptable to you and then I'll tell you that you're a politician of a format, and you don't call for any more interests. Underneath it all goes,... behavior and we don't have Sanader's and any other behavior under more interest... I will not behave like this no matter what you call me or what you see me. [[The speaker away from the microphone, not understood.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38048	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38049	Comrade Maras, don't get mad at me for what I'm about to say, but I'll say it. First, I don't think of imposing my ideals on you, but I have the right to tell you about my own and share them with you. And second of all, I haven't been able to read them any ideals that I've been listening to in the past few days. You know one poet said, he killed me too hard, hung himself somewhere above the star. And for you to say, you killed me with an empty word, don't hang yourself, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38050	Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38051	Your Honor. Dear colleague Pupovac. I am today from Prime Minister Plenkovic and from you personally declared a state enemy. He said I was a revolutionary, you said I was a fascist, obviously I'm the biggest problem of the Pupovci and Plenkovic Croatia, but I want to be. I want to be the problem of Croatia in which you have also participated, told you colleague Maras about Sanader and there you have given your share and you are calling out as counterpart Maras always said in some more interests, you are talking about the victim, you are talking about the threat. I wasn't talking about the Serbian national minority, I wasn't insulting Serbs. My best friend is a Serb. You're the one who never showed up in the villages, that's what Miro Bulj told you, and I'm telling you, you never showed up in Glusci near Metkovic where people of Serbian nationality live, but you've charged that threat story well. And you won't impress me with these stories that I'm a fascist, so I'm attacking you. I'm attacking you because you didn't say anything about the conflict of interest of Minister Maric. Here's how long this debate is, now it's 8.30 I haven't yet received an answer to the key question is it logical that one finance minister reduces taxation for the disproportionate property and reduces the deadlines for checking the disproportionate property. Nor did Prime Minister Plenkovic answer me, nor did Minister Maric answer me, nor did you answer me. But you called me a fascist and called me Prime Minister Plenkovic a revolutionary. I am the enemy of Pupovcheva and Plenkovici Hrvatska and I will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38052	The reply to the replica is Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38053	I haven't told you you're fascist yet, not yet, no, no, no, I haven't, I haven't, I haven't. If Grmoya needs President-in-Office of the Parliament's bellies, you can introduce an institution of the sitter and let the sitter speak. I just warned you about something I know and what it's my duty to warn you. And the conflict of interest will be decided by the commission, and the burden of Minister Maric will be decided by Minister Maric and his prime minister for public perception and public opinion. And as for you and your words on Plenkovic and Pupovci's Croatia, you know who spoke so before you? Anto Djapic from the Croatian party of law. Hello to you in that direction and in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38054	Representative Tomislav Klaric reported to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38055	Dear colleague Pupovac. We've been listening here all day about something that's definitely not even P from politics. You said most people around here don't want any new elections at all, but it's likely to happen. And now the question is, why are these elections going to happen? Is it because of all the things we've heard here, because of some name of Minister Maric's crime or I don't know why, because of some who have declared themselves a judge and jury and one who executes punishment? And most definitely don't want an election. If they happen, it'll only happen for one reason. And do you think about the consequences? Do they consider a crime against this country that is definitely going to happen because months in advance will not be able to spend the European funds for which tenders are now scheduled, measures 7.4.1 and the rest for which many cities and municipalities have prepared the documentation, financed the documentation. And it's real, it's going to fall into the water. That because of someone's ego, someone's stubbornness, because what the SDP started it was a legitimate right of opposition, they started it. I think the others themselves were caught doing it quickly. And what Prime Minister Plenkovic told us today, what he did for Minister Maric, would probably have done for Minister Dobrovic or any other. If the government isn't a team then as such it can't work. Then we can't function like the Parliament or the state. So the greater the damage, the more the election, the more the millions of kuna that will fail, hundreds of investments that will not be realised? For what reason? For reasons, because someone has imagined that politics means punishing, calling, accusing them without any argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38056	Thank you. Time's up, MP Klaric. Thank you. The reply to the replica is Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38057	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, let us, instead of agreeing on representatives of political parties who understand what needs to be done for this country on how to place the burden of the debts under which the suppliers are located, under which the workers are also transferred to whoever caused it. And to give the master the right meaning to hear the words here. And to deal with it the right way, not just one, but all of them. And to get the state right, to have both the judiciary and the police who will know what their job is and who will be terrified of them. This is how we focus it on each other and use ourselves for political reckonings with each other in the coalition. So what's the point? Where's the politics? Where is this feeling of deep responsibility to what the instruments of state power and state authorities are? Nowhere. Why? Because Monday's ratings fell after our colleagues saw that the research didn't show them what they wanted to see because they dropped several election points and then needed to reach out for everything they needed. I'm not close to everyone here and they don't need to be all close to me because that's life and that's relationships, but we need to find a way of worrying about what's common.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38058	Thank you. Representative Franjo Lucic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's listening to today's debate where I didn't want to report on purpose until now, not to help Minister Marić, but really listened to all these lies very carefully, all of these delusions, and the same people who showed it today have absolutely no moral responsibility for those people and that company they've mentioned so many times today. I agree with your colleague with your discussion, and that's exactly what you were talking about in your debate. Do these 150 thousand people who depend on Agrokor not deserve attention, not deserve our responsibility but only because of their vanity, because of their political thinking of the individuals who are tearing down this government, who are destroying Minister Maric today, the first minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia in 25 years who has managed to reduce public debt, who has managed to stop the deficit, which has increased GDP? Yes, this is what this government did. And today it doesn't suit individuals. It doesn't suit you or our partners today who are solely fighters for their promotion, for their jobs, for their positions. And it's enough more than that, and it's time to say who wants what, who's doing what's in this country's interest and who's fighting for the survival of this people who are fighting bloodyly to survive. And the day we set out on economic issues, we question everything we've done in 25 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38060	Time's up, thank you, counsel. The answer to the replica that you don't? Yeah. Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38061	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, we've got a number of areas but we haven't set foot in this area, in this House and in this government. And he won't go. And tomorrow be the election and my party has no objection to the election but we have the same thing to do. Same relationship strength, same job. And as some now call for the cordon sanitary cordon to be lifted around me and my party, and as they call for a cordon of sanitary and IDS to be erected around the CNS to raise the cordon of the sanitary room may be that they do not know how to speak of themselves. They may not know that the time has passed for politics to be organized according to the model of sanitary cordons toward the other side. And it's our duty to say it here. And I'd like to say out of respect that you mentioned the numbers in which we have success. But we have one dangerous sword above our heads. Our public debt, Mr. Maric, knows it better than I do, is 85% of GDP. It can all get to the bottom of what we've achieved so far. With insufficient governance of the state and insufficient leadership of the state where we go objectively looking at that sword can come down on our heads and shoulders. I'm sure some of our colleagues will immediately find the culprits why it happened, because the masters are the only ones in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38062	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38063	Thank you very much. Representative Pupovac, you have essentially focused your entire debate on a group of people described by a colleague, Jandrokovic, a group of dangerous people. You're even declaring us all a group of fascists, Nazis, and you're just doing it with fascist methods that a group of people who are absolutely not what you're saying. Your theatreism that wasn't really the point of the topic that we're talking about today in the democratic procedure, the processes in which you've been in for a long time. And extraordinary sources and regular elections are the thing that goes its course. However, I live once more to repeat with people of Serbian nationality. Get the phones, call them, ask them. Ask them how I live and how I live with them? And you here to show us that someone's a Ustasha, someone's a fascist. By what? You know very well that you often dig up these topics mainly in the pre-election time and that on the victims we all bow down and thank those who have led to freedom of Croatian and Serbian and national minorities and Croatian defenders who have all freed the Homeland together, you have found here a group together with Mr. Jandrokovic that you and Plenkovic and now you, the prime minister without a majority, are declaring us a group of dangerous people. Is it our fault, this group, as you say, dangerous people for the state of the country? For INA? For the White Nights? For Agrokor? For all the robberies? To Ivo Sanader where you were in the government and supported him. Is it our fault? [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Answer me. And then I'll give you all the honors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38064	Thank you. Time's up, Representative Bulj. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38065	Dear fellow Bull, I don't like to talk about Ustashas or Partisans if I don't have to. And I'd be luckiest if they were where they belong, and that's history. But like we're hostages here and a kind of policy, so we're also hostages to that history. And I'm just warning you that out of your words about me, about my party, about HNS, about IDS, that history is being restored in the ugliest of its editions. You may not know it, but I'm obliged to tell you. And as for the villages you mention and your colleague Grmoya, so many villages I've been to in Croatia, you don't know they exist. So many villages that I visit Croatia because my electoral body mostly lives in villages, you don't even know they exist. If you were thinking of a village next to the Imotski I wasn't in, but I heard about him, a colleague of Bulj, in whom five years ago, an old man was beaten to death on Orthodox Christmas. I wasn't in that village. But my colleague and I are hearing from this man's daughter who's been beaten and who, by chance, will not only be killed on the justice of God, but because of our justice, nothing will happen to those who beat him on Orthodox Christmas, not far from assuming your village or at least your last namesmen, with the stake of colleagues Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38066	Representative Vesna Bedeković reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38067	Thank you. Here he is, my colleague Pupovac, I've been listening very carefully all day to this debate, and I really didn't want to take my word for it because I expected to hear at least one too many responses or overstated the argument as to why Minister Maric was guilty. We've got four points to load him. I've never heard a single excessive answer before, and I don't know why it's man's fault. What matters is that he's got a crush on him. As well as his colleague Bulj asked for a break and asked for some conclusions to be made and to explain in more detail where we came from. I sincerely hope he asked for a break to explain to himself what the conclusions were, not to enable him to meet President-in-Office's physiological needs. Instead of what I noticed? First of all, the basic political misunderstanding of the complexity of the situation we are currently in. I have seen the absence of elementary political culture and political responsibility for all that is happening around us. I have seen a political action that erodes the closeness of the people and instrumentsises the current crisis and dissatisfaction with its own particular needs. And of course, I've seen a political action that is aimed at criticizing without argument on emotions, on instincts, on low passions, and that's populism to work for me. It is playing on the victim's map, playing on the shine of imaginary fear among voters in front of local elections for some particular interests and which voice more, and the main capital of that game is the maintenance and heating of instability and the use of populism as rhetorical tactics to divide into those who are bad, corrupt and those who are fair, moral and are always on the side of the people. And I therefore agree with the part of your debate in which you spoke about the absence of elementary political culture and political responsibility, and I expect, below, an articulated and reasoned debate. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38068	Thank you. The reply to the replica is Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38069	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. I hope that there will be a calming of the situation in our political atmosphere and that there will be no cause, and neither will the haika rule, and that someone should do so. I hope someone will come to this hall like he did a few days ago and say what needs to be said. So the heroes of the moon, if you're up for the moon, let's go out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38070	Representative Ljubica Lukačić answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38071	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Pupovac, you encouraged me to do the replica by saying that this debate here today is not going to solve anything and that it is not helping the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I can totally agree with you here because what we're listening to today I would say is the least said abuse of Minister Maric because whatever he says here today won't convince colleagues who think otherwise that's exactly what he's saying. So I'm wondering here, I don't dare even think that at this point in time, the stability of the state doesn't matter to any of us sitting here. But I'm thinking about why someone doesn't think about her. If someone doesn't think about the stability of this country, then the question is whether it matters to him. So I believe that it is important to him, so I believe that certain colleagues will finally start to think about political stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38072	The reply to the replica is Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38073	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. When an atmosphere is created the way it is created, and I can say it from my own experience, you can say whatever you want, and it has nothing to do with facts and truth and knowledge, but it goes away. And we who have been in politics long enough know that this is how it works in the part of politics and in the part of politicians. But when it becomes a dominant state and it prevails, then it's the death of politics and then it's the death of the National Representation. That's what the President of the Parliament, our esteemed Doctor Petrov, of his profession must know, and we're passing one such death these days.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38074	A representative of Silvano Hrelja reported for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38075	Dear Mr. Pupovac, I heard from you because you were talking about... there's no P in this High House of Politics and there won't be any until every new one who comes here starts talking about the past instead of analyzed the situation and looking for solutions for the future. It's our role, not to talk about the past. But I would add to this yours, that there is no PP here of political principle. Like you, I have a lot of experience in this House, I know what it means with three MPs to hold the majority in this House and to raise a stomach cramp in one hand and not every time you feel like it and you can't scream here and you can't talk about your emotions and your experiences every time. That minimum political principle here in this term does not exist. I am part of the opposition, it is legitimate what we are doing, I will vote in favour of Minister Maric's impeachment and I think Minister Maric would not blame me here personally. However, I was here in this term angry as far as the lynx is concerned because Minister Maric refused me all amendments to the Income Tax Act, angry with the lynx knowing that the amendments are very correct. But also after two months of underage, I went out for this pay phone, commended the IRS for installing in their regulations everything that was written in those amendments, commended it openly because they no longer tax the pensioners in the way they've done so far, and it took me eight unsuccessful years and in our coalitions to solve it. I don't even praise Minister Maric, we'd have a lot to talk about... /The speakers speak at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38076	Thank you. Mr. Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38077	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Hrelja, there is no political principle or consistency but as long as it is believed that one can say one thing, tomorrow the other and the next, and as long as it passes as principledness, the principle of always saying something else, that every day some other truth has no politics. So little remains of politics in this country. I've talked about it more than once in the Parliament. And based on what we can listen to during today and yesterday and the past days, we can see that it's a little missing too. And for this reason, it is necessary to take a step that will restore the minimum policy necessary for the functioning of the government, necessary for the representation of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38078	Representative Tomislav Panenic, report for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38079	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pupovac, I just grabbed the word you said yesterday was one thing, today was another. In the last government meeting, you were an opposition, you attacked the government, you also attacked the government, and when you collapsed, you were in the mood for the government to fall, you cited two reasons. One was that the government did not have a policy programme for minorities, others to collapse investments. With this programme towards minorities, I will only warn that this year 1.3, in this government, you have warned about the problems your national minority has, you have stated that in the last 2 months elected representatives have been expelled from Croatia. I don't know, here's what I'm saying. Secondly, have you resolved in my county the issue of minority schools with HDZ Mayor Bozo Galic? Did he give you the founding rights over those schools? What do the members of your national minority in Markusica, Bobota, Brshadin say about that? Did you handle it? Do you now support this government and it's all settled or do you just insist on getting some positions and that you can strengthen political influence? I mean, you have to be consistent because the question is what you'll be representing tomorrow when it's voted on. About the collapse of investments, I would ask how many times you went to Minister Maric to inform himself, to fight for the Borov issue, to question the completion of the pre-fashion settlement. I've been to him more than once, we didn't agree until it came literally now until their salaries could be paid, only then a pre-fashion settlement was settled, an assessment was accepted that wasn't at all. Have you ever asked all these years about solving the issue of clinical debt left in Borov why he wasn't brought into their books, which is why it hasn't been solved? That's where your national minorities work very much. Did you ask Minister Marić why in the municipalities where you have your national minority your right to, in fact, was abolished the right to reduce income tax rates and profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38080	The reply to the replica is Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38081	Your Honor, I thank you. Dear colleague Panenic, if I wanted to make a joke, I would say I didn't wait for any of it to be asked as a question. What makes you right, to those of you who now remember asking me if I'm doing what I'm doing and I haven't heard you once, not even a "C" or a "C" clutch, to take care of any of those questions you've asked. If it's minority schools, so it's an actual subject of conversation, it's part of an agreement with the government that you were in. It was the Ministry's obligation and we didn't solve it, but we'll handle it. We wanted to have a partner with you, and what did you do? You, when it was negotiated, you invited our youngest colleague to tell him you wait until we finish negotiations, don't negotiate and don't negotiate with HDZ. Is this how you care about the political influence of Serbs and other minorities in Croatia? And you couldn't wait to find the 15th SDP defector so you could have 76 so that we wouldn't have any chance of participating and affecting what decisions will be made. counterpart Panenic, as my colleague Memedi said to former Prime Minister Milanovic at the time for such discussions and for me. Dosage a little so that you can ask these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38082	Time's up, thanks. Representative Furio Radin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38083	Thank you very much. Comrade Pupovac, I listened very carefully to what you said, but what hurt me the most is what was said and not only today by not all the representatives of the Most but some of the representatives of the Most, let it be clear, about national minorities. I have a very simple question to ask. I don't know if it's populism, I don't know if it's demagogy, I don't know if it's a passion for rhetoric, I don't know, I don't know if it's fascism, even though I've doctored in authoritarianism. Authoritarity is measured... And... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] is a scale of fascism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I can't answer that question, but I can tell you one thing why you always need to talk bad when you talk about national minorities? Why do you need to talk about national minorities only when it comes to criticising some MPs in this case today, Milorad Pupovac, a colleague of Keatazi, before whom you fellow Panenic asked why he is not visiting your Roma municipality. And he answered you because they were gone. Why do you have to say you have a Serbian friend? Why do you have to say you have a Serbian friend? I haven't met a single chauvinist or nationalist who doesn't have a single friend from that nationality he's a chauvinist for, I've never met him. I can only tell you one thing. I don't know if it's fascism, but I can tell you that. I'm not going to tell an SDP representative which would be illegal, but she's sitting here right now, so she knows. When I said it was populism, it was demagogy, what, when it was said that we should not bear the burden of responsibility as it was told the Jews not to. to bear the burden of responsibility when it was during that time. [[President: Time is up. Thank you.]] When I said it, this SDP lawyer told me...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38084	Thank you. Reply to Replicator Pupovac You're running out of time, Agent Furo Radin. [[/Subject Radin: When I said this SDP MP, she told me to listen to the speech from Split. It's fascism. That's what that MP told me.]] You're out of time. Can you hear me? Mr. Pupovac, reply to the replica. [[That's what she said. Calm down, Mr. President, and please give me a warning once.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38085	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Radin, perhaps I shouldn't have used that word. Fascism was not the worst phenomenon among humans. There were worse authoritarian collectiveistic criminal regimes than there was fascism. And my colleagues, Grumoji and colleagues Bulju, when I'm called next because I didn't pass some Serbian villages, I'm going to say now. Do you know a colleague of the Bolly as many of them as there are empty souls in which there are no human souls? The villages of Serbian colleagues. Soon they won't be in the Deaf either, but I was with the Deaf People. And he ended up in the house of an honorable man in Metkovic, but no one tipped you off. But let me tell you, colleague Radin. It all starts there when in another, different and weaker you see evil. It all starts there when in the second and different beginnings to show that he is a burden on the state budget and that he eats off our plate and spends our money, that's what I warned you about, dear colleague Bulj, and respected colleague of Grumo because you're saying that, and that's what's starting that evil. And if you have no other way to take down Andrej Plenkovic and his government, don't get all worked up about this. Because I'll pay you back. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38086	Time's up. Stevo Culej's representative asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38087	Your Honor. I've never gotten up to replicate to you, and if I hadn't possibly attacked you, I'd even have offended you sometimes. And you're telling me the same in your reply to the replica. I can't help but keep quiet what we said yesterday on the stairs. I've told you these words that I read in one day in a book that those among whom the guns were spoken had little to talk about. You spoke here and about empty villages. Yes, your villages are empty, many that I may have gone through. But they're also our empty ones that you might have gone through. I want to say one thing. You have well noticed that because of the past, we will potentially destroy the future and what lies ahead. I know best that I'm not a fascist, although you haven't told me that, and I know a lot of times that you've considered it, but you've written it down somewhere. I'm not even a nationalist, and maybe I am in that part because I prefer my own than someone else's, at least a little. And I know when you stand for this that there is a part of Croatia that you possibly wanted more than those who wanted Yugoslavia. And you're right when you say there are bigger fascisms than fascism, and that was communism. And I know [[The President's incursion: Time.]] that in Croatia there is also a part where you want them to be well. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]] Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38088	Agent Culey, time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38089	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Culey, you don't know that I have sympathy for your personal family loss. I never said that, because I didn't think this was, this microphone is where I should say it. And as you rightly say, there are empty seats on both sides. Well, you don't have to tell me that, '97. I first came to Vukovar in '96. For the first time in my life, '97. I have visited many villages both Croatian and Serbian. And when I made the move from Clean Great through Luksic, Provic, and further through Perusic to Benkovec, some of them know what I'm talking about, I saw the first people of Croatia who returned to their homes and renewed them, as if I saw my uncles with whom I grew up until I was 14, and I don't make that difference. And for me, there's no one left to shoot at because I didn't shoot at anyone, and the one who got in the position to shoot and the one who got in the situation that he lost like you lost should have an understanding and should help him overcome it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38090	Time's up, thanks. I'm asking the government's representative to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38091	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a quick reference, not that I'm replicating now, but the esteemed representative of Pupovac had just said and mentioned the number before, so right now I'm using that opportunity to point out again, so not now that something excessively corrects him is the decimal thing. 84.2% at the end of 2016, the share of public debt in GDP for the first time in our recent past and history decreased and nominally for some 500 million kunas, openly, clearly and publicly speaking, also had exchange rates of influence, but the share of public debt was reduced for the first time. I'm hearing a lot of criticism here today at my expense about my exemption. I repeat once again, a culture of self-exemption in only two decisions, but then I will also refer to what Mr. Pupovac has offered me as a teacher. I'm also going to say something about a decision I made in a very difficult and dramatic situation, last year about this time in London during the issue of the euro bond. Given the situation of certain political instability, investors and others have reacted financially to our bonds. In the morning it was due to make that decision, I came to a hotel room somewhere about ten o'clock in the evening, awake all night, showering constantly, trying to sleep waking up, imposing myself some reasons and in the morning of course along with his team and government ultimately made that decision. One of the repercussions of that decision when you honor my abstention over some decisions here is that I will in some way not say thank you, but let me tell you the decisions I made 763 million kuna we paid less interest in 2016 than in 2015, but still ladies and gentlemen we pay 11.2 billion kuna interest. And as long as I'm the finance minister, make sure it's gonna be one of the main councils I'm going to put before me and my team and all of us together to cut down on what we pay to any domestic or foreign creditors. And in the follow-up to this, my colleague, Grmoja, is here to answer that question as of this morning, which was addressed to Prime Minister Plenkovic and to me. To this question I will combine my own words a little, and I must combine the words and my colleagues from the IRS who have sent me several e-mails and messages today please give me more answers. So before the tax reform, we had several limitation deadlines, 3 and 6 years for taxes, 5 and 10 years for contributions and 1.2 years for certain public taxes. Repercussion, different interpretations, whether professional, judicial, cartoon, conclusion, subjection to political influences. What the waist says, what the IRS says, let's get all that even. The general rules, therefore, of the General Tax Law, for the purpose of establishing a disproportionate amount of property of the shown income, have reduced the limitation of time limits for the establishment of legal certainty and for the reasons that the previous governments were able to manipulate these mechanisms by selecting certain individuals selectively, and all for daily political purposes. My colleagues from the IRS say please protect us, we don't want to experience this kind of stress, that someone calls us and points us to the finger and we carry that responsibility. We just want to do our job. On the other hand, the General Tax Act states that if legal agents of natural and legal persons and representatives or managers of associated persons of property without legal personality in the conduct of business committed a criminal offence of tax evasion or participated in tax evasion or unlawfully opened a tax reduction or other tax advantage, then the agent or administrator shall be deemed to be a taxpayer for less paid tax and interest and, in that case, the statute of limitations shall start to run after the end of the criminal proceedings. That's what you refer to. It starts from the end of a criminal procedure without insinuations that you do very often in any procedure. If in six years everyone, all the institutions of this country are unable to resolve this problem, then a big question of their own efficiency is raised. As for the tax rate in determining the disproportionate amount of income shown in the draft bill as voted here, 36% is increased by 1.5%, so 54%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38092	Representative Maro Kristic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38093	Here's my chance, Your Honor, to ask you a few questions, so I haven't heard a clear answer since this morning. So you knew that HBOR had betrayed more than 20% of its plasmas that were unsuccessful, so there are more than 20% bad plasmas and that any normal bank in the world would fail on that basis. So you've been saying six months, six months now, that all banks have stopped all the restrictions on Agrokor, so they've stopped any loan approval to Agrokor and HBOR has granted credit despite that fact. You were a member of the board of directors and Agrokor, and you were president of the HBOR Supervisory Board, you were exempt from that story, were it not normal and responsible to warn all members of the Supervisory Board of the two facts. It's indefensible to me. Secondly, twice you tried to shut down the IRS, these are facts, so one time during Mr. Karamark and another time in this government. It's not true that you've agreed to everything that we've proposed, but it's simply been pressured by the public and the media who have realized what you want to do, in both cases. Here's the first time you've tried to completely shut down the IRS, the second time you've eventually after the tremendous pressures and us MPs here from the middle from the right but also most, the great majority of the media have agreed to the IRSCO preserve their independence. And the third irrefutable fact is that you've shortened the deadlines for investigating disproportionate property, so you've exculpated many, many, many who stole property. Mr. Bacic tried to unwittingly explain the difference between the immeasurable property and illegally acquired property. Unlawfully acquired property is that property that was stolen and disproportionately acquired property is the property that was paid illegally by money, which is the money that cannot be proven to be of origin, which is millions, not millions, but billions of kunas of money for which the state budget is damaged. That's the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38094	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38095	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, here in the 12th hour of the debate, here you are in the assembly. I was expecting, of course, your immediate involvement or intrusion regarding the IRSCOD. Here, you weren't here when I said, or I did, you were actually there about an hour ago when I said that about 12 months ago I opened the portal and said Maro Kristic the representative went hard on Minister Marić. We didn't even know each other back then. I read your biography a little bit like you read mine. Unlike me, who I'm unbiased, I've noticed that you've often changed different political options, but I said OK, based on what I'm being accused of. Where have I ever said anything that I would suggest that the IRS be abolished? 12 months my battle is going, explaining, you're now telling me it's some kind of presy. Ask your colleagues, some of them you personally know, I won't blame them for anything, but people do their job honestly and responsibly, and it doesn't matter who we know on what basis. But the fact is, in the end, you also concluded that it was never intended to indicate anything. And you didn't hear me now after this speaker, tax administration officials crying towards me, Ministers, get us out of political influence. That was my basic intensities with the IRS. What about the IRS now? It's regulated unlike the regulation, regulated by law. The head of that body of an independent tax fraud sector is also the assistant director of the Tax Administration. A few weeks ago, they came back from a certain education in the United States and I signed it as the finance minister. And you of all that, now you've got a moment from a colleague sitting left of you, hitting, now you're back with the IRS, you're not honoring our arrangements or anything like that. What am I supposed to say more about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38096	Agent Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38097	Your Honor. Dear Minister Maric, obviously I'm here, I don't know the main and the responsible, I give the moments, I tell the people what they're going to say, so I haven't talked to my colleague Maric about the taxpayer. I'm interested in answering just one question that you haven't answered, this insufferable explanation that something can be determined in six years. What does that mean? Which means at 6:00, I'm not talking about six years, I've been talking about the period before that since 2005, and it can't be investigated now. And what's your explanation, as you said, that legal uncertainty can't do it either because of political influences. What political influences? Let the institutions and the tax administration come to all those who cannot prove it, i.e. those who have problems proving the origin of the property and where there is a disproportionate property. You're one whole period from 2005 to 2010 it's over. It's over, it's true. That's right. This is about the huge money that you have, so you haven't directed them where they're supposed to be in the state register, but you've left them to these guys who can't, who have trouble proving the origin of the property, or where there's this disproportionate property, that's a fact. If only in the past six years can be proven. Well, I don't know what you're talking about, Minister Maric. Do I speak Croatian, do you understand me? Which all day long, and means you don't really want to answer all day. You don't really want to answer all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38098	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38099	Really, you're a little bit caught right now, I deliberately left this part to answer. There are still provisions of the Penal Code left, aren't there? ... What does the Penal Code mean? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What we're talking about is the Penal Code, I'll quote you. ... A criminal offence of tax evasion or customs has prevented a prison sentence from 6 months to 10 years. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In such cases, antiquity of criminal persecution occurs in 15 years. And if it's a crime of tax or customs evasion for 20 years. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38100	I'd like to ask you to refrain, or I'll give you a warning. ... The representative of the bush just got a warning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You just got a warning. We're moving on. Representative Bojan Glavasevic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, in your presentation, you spoke, I mean again, it's one topic that has happened several times during the day. It's the subject of your exemption from decision-making. Namely, yours from our perspective, and not only from ours, but from the perspective of the law, is your failure, among other things, in that at the moment of suspicion that you might be in conflict of interest, you did not take advantage of the possibility given by the Law to prevent conflicts of interest in Article 39(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In this article, he says, the article speaks of how an official can run himself, or ask the commission to initiate the process of determining responsibility. That item serves exactly those situations in which the official considers that he has done nothing wrong, that he has done nothing wrong about the law in no way, and that in this way the commission exculpates him, of course, during the period during which the procedure takes place, you do not exempt yourself. When you talk about the culture of exemption, the culture of exemption would be just that. Look, someone might have warned you, I don't expect you to know the full law, although since you've already been in the system of state administration and you've been an official, you should actually know. But since you haven't taken advantage of it, you must be aware that this Assembly of many MPs and MPs has a certain amount of mistrust with you. So, many people here have taken advantage of this legal opportunity and have been esculpated in the eyes of our colleagues and colleagues here and in the eyes of the Croatian public. I mean, this is just like a comment on a culture you mentioned about exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38102	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38103	Here's a little bit. So, I was already talking about a conflict of interest. So, at this moment as far as I know and as far as I know, there is still no procedure, despite what has been announced that some and anonymous notions against me have been launched. As I said earlier this morning, I'll say so now. So, I'm a legalist. Whatever it is that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest decides, initiates or asks me, I am here, as it is before you today and the entire Croatian public, clean and open, whatever it is that needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38104	Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, more of your words actually moved me to this replica. You said yourself earlier today that you weren't Superman. I admit I don't have your education in economics, you're a doctor of economic science. But you know for yourself, and I think that every layman in the economy can tell you to turn trends in the economy still takes a little time. And grossly speaking, you're a minister, so not a technical minister, but a minister that's about six, seven months. If you assure us like this Parliament and this Croatian public that you have in so little time turned trends, then you are indeed Superman. These trends are the fruit of long-term work and the government before you and the government before the government who often made painful, not-so-popular moves to enjoy the fruits of these trends. And God forbid they last. But I have a problem with you taking all the credit. Furthermore, when you talk about tax reform, when you talk about changing the IRSCO Law, when you say tax collectors are asking you to say it. I'm wanted by the citizens of the Minister! And I have to tell you that your tax reform has more money, you and I get a higher salary, and those who receive minimum wage receive 50 kuna. When I asked the ministers to consider another reading to encourage certain industries with targeted tax relief, for example the IT industry in Slavonia, it was completely ignored. It's sad, but it's a Superman who's turned the trends so fast I don't think he can afford it. And in the end, when you repeat repeatedly that in Agrokor, you have signed two signatures one on the contract, one being fired. Well, I'm wondering then, and I'm not questioning you here, so I'm asking your employer what he was paying you for if your only responsibility was to give a signature on the contract and termination of the work contract. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38106	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38107	Thank you very much. A few months ago, don't blame me for not knowing the exact date, because even today after this whole day, I don't even know what time of day it is anymore. A daily paper awarded a prize among other economic events last year. And last year's economic event was GDP growth. And I was invited, and I had the honor as Minister of Finance to take that award. And then and now I'm telling you the credits exclusively for economic growth go to the Croatian economy. I've never taken credit for anyone, so let me say here I am not sure what I did myself. But that economy worked within the frameworks that the government had set up among other things. The things we just said earlier, this same economy has been yelling at me and my colleagues from the government, don't prescribe a single continuum plan, move on to discharging tax duties. When I went out and suggested after the expert working group tax reform, the whole economy recognized it. Of course, certain segments were seen in their parts. And as for public finances, public finances are still the responsibility of the state and government. And with all due respect to the economy that fills that budget, it's still not just me, here's two people, there's a lot more that are in charge of the Ministry of Finance that keeps the budget users in line to keep their spending under control. Last year when the budget was passed in the third month, I'm not such a big visionary, but I was one of the few, if not the only one who predicted we'd be able to cut that public debt in GDP. We said let's go freeze consumption from those so-called so-called. general sources that create deficits. And then the government fell, the parliamentary majority disbanded, and we had early elections. And everyone said now it's gonna show if it's gonna keep up the spending. And look, the planned deficit of nine billion kuna, achieved 2.8 billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38108	Agent Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38109	Dear Mr. Maric, once again, the mugging and the continuum of the mugging. I've already explained to each other that you're covering up a real hole in the budget because you don't count on government spending at all. So when the state comes this year to collect 27 billion kuna loans, you don't count it as government expenditure. When it comes to you to collect 7 billion kuna credits for state guarantees that the state has given for non-refundable loans, you don't count on budget expenditures either. And then you have everything in total over 35 billion kuna commitments that you have no place to settle from, but you don't count on it as a deficit. No, you invented double accounting, you called it a know, you run it under the finance bill, and then the loans you raise count as income. It's masculine and manipulation with the numbers that you do and then you say the deficit is 1% of GDP, etc. And you lack 40 billion kuna this year to cover the current needs of the state for money. What 40 billion, well that's a third of the budget at least, at least Mr. Maric's, is 33% of the state budget, and you're saying I don't know 1% of GDP you're manipulating persistently, and that's why you have to leave, and that's why I'm going to vote for your shift and the sooner you go, the better for this country and this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38110	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38111	Thank you very much. Your Honor, when I realized that you were really mad at me, a few weeks ago I didn't get your Easter card which was the case last year when you sent me congratulations and talked about how I was a good man and that it was the wrong system. But I have your contact, so I'll send you the address... Well, then it's from the wrong number. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I apologize if it was from the wrong number if someone hacked into you, but I think I have your contact, so I'll send it to you or I'll deliver it to you. I will deliver you an address in New York and an address in Brussels, there are two institutions that prescribe a system of national accounts and a methodology of public finances for Europe and the EU and for the whole world. The Republic of Croatia is the 28th EU member state, the newest, youngest member state, but also a member state that respects all EU rules and regulations, including the methodological management of public finances. All that is in our public finances, and along the way, when you call me for the manipulation of double accounting, the figure recently published by the general government budget deficit in 2016 has been the lowest since the European methodology, mentioned 2.8 billion kuna compared to 11 last year and 17 clans made according to that methodology, but not calculated by the Ministry of Finance, calculated by the State Statistics Office, which received a verification from the European Statistical Institute system, or EUROSTAT. I don't know how to repeat it again and ask myself a question, where am I or any... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38112	Representative Pernar, I give you a warning like I did to Mr. Grumoja when he started to throw and I mean Mr. Djujic. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38113	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I've been waiting for your debate on the IRS with one intention to say something and a pension tax and one mistake that happened this year. But there should be a very fair and word to set up a good tax system takes time, and that is a question of continuity, not the success of a government but the upgrade of the system from government to government. So in my working life, I've had all kinds of meetings with the IRS from great injustices to good moves, but it won't be good as long as someone like Italy buys two cars at his door to get a tax inspection or a financial police asking him where you got cover for such expenses. And it will not be good as long as the Tax Administration acts equally under the same criteria in the east, in the south, in the west of Croatia, so it is not that in one period it is more in Istria than that in another part of Croatia it is not. What I was about to say was that he made a mistake with HZMO taxing those pensioners and working for up to 4 hours, that he didn't take into account the tax relief, that the IRS admitted that there was a mistake and now these poor ones for their 500, 800 or 1000 kuna have to wait a year for someone to pay them back. I mean, the IRS must have mechanisms to return immediately what was wrongly taken, that's what I'm saying, and I want to make a constructive contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38114	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38115	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I don't move every time now in as long as anyone knows, but the two of us have known each other for a while and we've worked together, and we've been like now calling each other on opposite sides. In both examples, we have always had arguments, open dynamics we can say so. So we never ran away from each other in terms of arguments and tax reform, either. All day long conflict of interest, I'm in a conflict of interest in retirement. Both my parents are retired, and believe me, he would be the happiest person in the world and them and everyone in the neighborhood in Slavonski Brod, and whoever I know, give all the pensioners a bigger pension. Is that possible at this point? Surely I can't easily answer that pensions will grow xy%, make some kind of false promises. But what you said well and apostrophe and that's where we agreed. One of the main postulates of tax reform was among other things, with the tax exemption to simplify regulations, regulations, these forests of tax regulations, we went with 15 laws, which we tried to simplify to make the work of the tax administration better and more efficient. It's easier for them, but it's mostly easier for citizens, pensioners, entrepreneurs and the like. That we do not come to this situation because no one is pleased with me as a minister or director of the Tax Administration or any person in the Tax Administration to hear the situation that there is a different opinion, let's say, of the central office here in Boskovic, compared to some kind of regional office for the east of Croatia, in southern Croatia, no matter where per case. It was one of the intensities why I stood before you regardless of the shortness of time and deadlines. We certainly focused on tax rates in that debate both publicly and in the Croatian Parliament, but you know very well that I was defending these posts in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38116	On behalf of the Club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives will speak for Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38117	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. Here we, from the club IDS, PGS and the List of Rijeka, wish to express a clear view on the question of showing confidence to Minister Zdravko Marić but also on the replacement of Croatian Parliament President God Petrov. I would like to explain our position as Mr. Prime Minister this morning, Mr. Plenkovic said that there is one ship and that there is a particular team on that ship so is the IDS on one ship for 27 years and regardless of the turbulence on the left and right we have taken our course, our way and we hold them as a party that we are the left liberal center and today we are part of the opposition in this Croatian Parliament. And that's why IDS together with its PGS partners and the River List refuses to give up the values that we have spent many years fighting for, that we represent and defend and defend. And therefore, first of all, given the circumstances, regardless of the expertise of Minister Maric, in which I have no doubt, such an environment was created in which he could no longer normally perform the minister's duties. That's why we're voting for his recall. We also voted at the beginning of this term against this government, we did not support it, but the fact is that the Most was here to support it. Under 2nd, IDS will also vote for the impeachment of the God of Petrov. We cannot support a party and a man who opposes freedom of choice, who opposes the right to abortion, who refuses to go to Jasenovac and advocates the abolition of Istria as a separate region. In his political action, MOST clearly demonstrated its attitude towards antifascism, human and civil rights, minority rights and Istria as a region. And we're just not gonna raise our hand for such a party. However, I would also like to say something about the irresponsibility and irresponsibility of the parties that brought us into this situation. We are aware that after these two years of these turbulences that we have experienced that all indicators show growth in the economy, the decline in unemployment, let's say that the state has stabilized. Is this the result of the previous Government kukuriku, whether it is the result of EU accession, whether it is the merits of the Oreshkovic government or this last government, but also the fact that we are destined in Croatia, we have such a destiny that as soon as something goes up we have to fight, there is no unity and we crash again and we return to the crisis. We have a government crisis now, we have a Parliament crisis, and now we're hearing stories about who's to blame. And today they've been fighting left-to-right all day, MOST, who's to blame. There's a saying in our house that says this, when you go into partnership when it's the first time you're screwed, it's the one who screwed you up, when the second time he screws you up, it's the one who lets him screw it up. So find out who's to blame, but the fact is that we're all in the same basket thanks to this particular conflict of yours. The fact is that other countries in the area are doing reforms, adapting to increasingly competitive and faster operating conditions. The Croatian government is unfortunately still falling from one disaster to another. We are witnessing that in front of that Easter holiday, we are now getting nice information on the satisfaction of all our tourists, visitors, as we are a beautiful country, a peaceful state. However, we are also witnesses right now when we have a tourist season ahead of us that we have problems with Schengen, or borders and our institutions are blocked. We saw what happened a few weeks ago, and what an indescribable chaos would have been if the institutions hadn't reacted. Furthermore, there is instability in Turkey and uncertainty over a possible new wave of refugees. However, the political conflict between the MOST and HDZ has led us to destabilise the country and the damage is invaluable. Imagine all those people who are now thinking about coming to Croatia for a holiday, our neighbours, whether it's Slovenians, Hungarians, Serbs, whether they hear this rhetoric that is ruling in this House or that rhetoric that is outside this Assembly, especially I think of gentlemen from the Most who even call on people to have to react, that they must take matters into their own hands, that it begins here and today we have witnessed shooting from all possible artillery. To point at us here in the House with his finger and threatens and scares us. Well, we're not afraid of you gentlemen from Metkovic, because he didn't start politics by coming with you to Parliament and your going to Parliament. And that's why you HDZ and the Most chose each other, and now we're all paying the price of your irresponsibility. And therefore, unfortunately, Croatian citizens are the hostages of your pride and egoism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38118	Before I go to the replicas, does Agent Demetlik allow me to say something? Mr. Demetlik, do you allow me to say something before I release the replicas? Well, I'm asking permission because I have no right to interfere. I can only be a co-ordinator of my own kind and warn.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38119	We have experience in these last two days that as President of the Parliament you can do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38120	Yeah, since here's your permission, I can't believe I can't get the IDS and MOST together because I didn't come on a anniversary in Jasenovac. All I care about is what would have happened if I hadn't been to Bratislava that day? Or that I stand for life, I think there are other things. But here's what you let me say, here's if you want to replicate, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I am, I believe that MOST is not only one person Mr. Bozo Petrov, but that he can send his envoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38122	He was an envoy. That's the problem. There's an envoy for the Parliament, and they're attacking me all the time. Here Mr. Sladolev was an envoy to the Parliament that day next to the Prime Minister. Look at the pictures. Thank you. Representative Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38123	Dear colleague and friend Tulio, I need to talk to you about my homework, and we'll understand each other better. You're saying you've had your own ship and your way for 20 years and you're always on that path. I appreciate that. But when you say we have a government crisis, we have a Parliament crisis, we have a crisis I don't know what and you're asking yourself who's to blame. It's all our fault -- you and me and all of us here 151. And there can't be a crisis if we're complicated. If we know the estimate it's happening here today. Let's see if there's a plantation here, let's see if there's a crisis here that you were talking about. And there is now no other way to turn IDS Tribal to the left or right, there is now Tulia Demetlika and Tomislav Klaric and Pupovac and Radin and all of us from 151 here. And now it's gonna be a question of the crisis? How much damage will come with the re-election, the re-emergences of some sort, by agreeing I don't know what kind of government, by holding back European funds, I've already talked about it. About new ministers who will be named, so while the ministries are stalking, we'll throw away more than a year, and we've already lost one. And just as it all went to you both in Labin and me in Bakr and Metkovic and across the country, in Slavonia, what's going on? Someone remembers the minister we don't like let's take him down Let's take down the government. [[President: Time is up. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38124	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ekola, if we're gonna talk about ours, I've got... That he won't give me the hat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My Labinians said we're running as you speak for our Parliaments. And now you see how hard it is, the feathers certainly didn't come down a little further south we won't be captains. Because he doesn't know if we're being hated by our MOST colleagues, but it's important for you to be the captain. I am pleased with my colleague Klaric to now mention this unity, unity and to try to reach one result together. The fact is that the upcoming local elections may be one of the reasons for these disagreements, but you took responsibility from HDZ with your dear friends from MOST. Twice. And twice you've brought a situation like this into our country that we have instability again, that we have uncertainty and that everything that's been done these past two, three, five, ten years is being questioned. And all those advantages we've achieved, unfortunately, because of your conflict with each other, don't mess with us now who haven't been involved in it. You cooked up and now you're getting out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38126	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38127	Well, I'd like to say one thought, Mr. Demetlik. You mentioned economic growth. You know how this government does economic growth to you, how it counts. For example, Agrokor raises 4.5 billion kuna credits, i.e. Euro credit. And what happens? Money is pumped into circulation and as economic growth takes place. There's money, things are moving. And then when the loans come for payment, then the collapse. Same thing. Minister Maric says he has a projection for the next three years to raise 170 billion kuna loans. And what, then he'll talk the next day we have economic growth. Mr. Demtlik with what money does he make that growth? With 170 billion kuna, my late grandmother would have made economic growth. But Mr. Maric does not answer the question of what happens to the state when these loans come out because what is currently happening to Agrokor is what is going to happen to the state, except that this earthquake will be much more brutal and it will not only be about how 60 thousand Todorov's workers are being beaten but it will be 4 million Croatian citizens, if not less because of permanent emigration. And he's doing the evaluation now is going to be 25% less, these are the estimates of this country. Those before the elections promise economic growth, when the elections pass, the projection will be less than 25%. So where will this economic growth come from? Where will this return of debts that cannot return lead to our land and people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38128	The answer to the replica is the representative of Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38129	Dear colleague Pernar, perhaps your inexperience in this contributes to the fact that you sometimes say things that simply don't hold water in practice. In fact, economic growth is not only recorded by the government's work or work at local or county level, but first and foremost to be a destination as a country for investment whether domestic or foreign capital, the first and primary condition is that you have to have political stability and security. When you have it, be assured that investors, whether domestic or foreign will invest in their production facilities, in my I will say investments that will certainly contribute to both employment and the creation of new values. Today with this situation that we have in our country, we will simply reject further investments like this that will contribute to the development of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38130	Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38131	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. In your presentation in one part, you spoke of the seriousness and the MOST on the one hand and the other side of HDZ and the price of irresponsibility and pride. I agree with you. I think we just remember how the coalition of the SDP-led government took part in the IDS and HNS that it was sometimes difficult. Politics just isn't a simple job it's not a simple call. We make tough decisions, we have disagreements, difficult times too, but we have been responsible politicians and politicians. My impression is also what I agree with you that in the last year and a half we have had the opportunity to look at a lot of politicians and politicians who, in order to say domestically... /The speaker speaks Italian./...no, therefore they think that this is how they can lead the state without any particular responsibility. But it's not like that, and I'm glad you warned me about that. However, today we are here because of another topic, not because of the election, and I think you have also had some very valuable comments on this subject about Mr. Marić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38132	The answer to the replica is the representative of Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38133	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, well said in that last term, so-called. Milanovic's government and we were partners of a coalition and it certainly wasn't easy, but we showed I'll say maturity and responsibility. The fact that even for every fruit when planted, i.e. The seed has to grow a tree and then until the fruit comes and it matures. It seems that some politicians have not yet reached that level of maturity and taking some responsibility. But also this immaturity and irresponsibility show through rhetoric itself, so I believe that some future Parliament will before such fellow Members enter to give them a course in which to debate and talk here in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38134	Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38135	Comrade Demetlik, you have served on the rhetoric of your colleague Pupovac, who has declared us all fascists here, so you have accused the President of Parliament because he could not have been in Jasenovac even though he was in Bratislava and sent his envoy. No one threatened you today by MOST, I especially don't, I didn't threaten you at all. I only said that you voted or voted for lex Agrokor that you shut down, that there are links to the IDS of Agrolagun you know very well about Agrokor, so I'm talking about it. I didn't threaten anyone, I don't know what you're reading that I'm threatening you unless perhaps, as the Prime Minister said, I was like an wasp these days unless I stabbed you where I shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38136	The answer to the replica is the representative of Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38137	Thank you, Mr. President. When someone's finger is held up like this and waved, it's a threat to me. And if you have certain evidence, not these insinuations that you often say here, not just you, but your other colleagues, some individuals from MOST, that you're just accusing without arguments and facts. If you have here there are institutions in the Republic of Croatia and have a nice statement and run the procedure so let's see what IDS in Istria are involved in. And if we pulled the cards, are you spying on us maybe? I've never been out of my seat since I got to Parliament. So don't lie to the public again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38138	Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38139	Thank you very much. Well, here's my dear colleagues, speaking of localisms, let's do a little amazing in shock, so I'll tell you nicely my dear colleagues and colleagues, that at least we in Slavonia and Baranja are as bad as you in Bakra or Istria. Don't get me wrong. If you think you're sick, you can think about what's inside of us. Nothing good, my dear gentlemen, fairs my countrymen. Nothing good. But I agree with you, colleague Demetlika, when you say we have a continuing problem, we absolutely have them. We don't think strategically, we don't think long-term. We need to know first what we want to do with our country, our country. When we think strategically, let's say that we brought to the strategy for the development of education that we brought with some abstentions in the Parliament but without votes against. Then when the new government comes, then we say nothing of this before is worth it, now we're going from scratch. Where does that get us? The curricula reform is in the air somewhere, and if this government goes down, it won't go on. The question is whether or not he will. This looks like a friend's fight to me. We are now witnessing a painful argument up until a few weeks ago of very idyllic partners who have very, very synchronisedly raised their hands for, say, tax reform that gave the rich more and less, who have synchronised their hands for lex Agrokor, we are still defending something we do not know what we are defending and whose property it is, it is private property, etc., not to mention my doubts now. But we're being brought into the same basket and we're just as responsible as the ones who came up here a week ago were in a perfect marriage. Well, I don't think so. And as the shocks would tell me, don't mind me, but it's not the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38140	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38141	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's to be honest, we're not in Istria or a colleague in Bakr, either, but I believe that the policy we've been taking at a local level has contributed to some of the problems we've solved. I'll also say for the IDS who has been managing Istria for 24 years now that maybe that continuity is a guarantee with, I'll tell the hardworking Istrians who have and accepted and I'll say I'll tell you what's worth doing to them through certain strategies that we've long ago brought. What we like to say, where are we lucky to get... The whole of Croatia and for you in Slavonia to experience what, a higher standard than we have, not only in Istria but here is a colleague Klaric in Bakra or in the Primorje-Gorski County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I agree with you what you said, responsibility and call us who are in opposition to what is happening and the conflict is visible and clear, what you yourself said 15 days ago, an idyllic love, but it seems that love has broken. And now he wants to transfer that responsibility to us. I don't think we're gonna do it, and we can't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38142	Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38143	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Demetlika, you in the part of Croatia from which you come from, from Istria show your politics how multiethnicity and multiculturalism are preserved and how, despite the different challenges, minority rights are respected, the rights of those who, on different grounds, have come or come to live in that county of Croatia. And we understand why you, like us, are sensitive to language, to a speech that has minority anti-features. It is quite understandable for us when you recognize signs of intolerant exclusive speech because you keep it at home. And those who are said to speak such a language and are thought of only one or two as they correspond? They say you called all of us here that? We're not all of us. We listen to who says. And we only talk to those who say. And we will never accuse all MOSTs, we will never accuse all SDPs or all of the HNSs, we are. And whoever says everyone was attacked when he was attacked, of course continues with that kind of speech and politics that is false and misleading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38144	Thank you, Commissioner Pupovac, time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38145	Thank you, Mr. President. Your esteemed colleague Pupovac has established what IDS has been promoting for many years and certainly not only protection of minority rights or protection of human rights, multiculturality, these are the values that I have said in my presentation and of that IDS will certainly never, ever, ever give up. Because in our past, we have been past the difficult moments of haematism and simply Istria, which has always been one bridge between the East and the West, where cultures, authorities, where everyone who came used up by that Istrian people, has simply taught us about this co-existence. And those values we picked up and pulled all of those from all the different cultures that went past Istria, today it's our fortune. And we live in that very light, and we will continue to promote it through this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38146	Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38147	Representative, you have unargumented and off topic accused Boza Petrov of not being like Jasenovac, that it is a fascist organisation MOST or what you wanted to say Nazi. What are we here for? We are a group of dangerous people, Mr. Milorad Pupovac, who knows what, we are to you who knows what. What's the matter with you? What have we done? Well, you led this country, gentlemen, you fellow Pupovac, you fellow Demetlika. Well, did you know that this happened in your time? So do you know that IDS is connected to Agrolagun? Do you know who owns it? Well, that's a familiar thing. Well, nothing's been said against you today. You may not be interested in the subject, perhaps it is not clear to you that without the majority of Mr. Plenkovic brought the government into crisis, that he said he had a majority. It's his business whether he's working with some ministers or not, but he's put the state in crisis. No majority, no 76 signatures. We wait, we expect. Most honestly, unfortunately, they're not good choices, but they're the most honest ones if someone's fooled the public and the public's excuse is the one who fooled the public. And you focused your entire strategy on these 10, 12 people who absolutely while you ruled and while Croatia was destroying absolutely had absolutely no impact on state policy, absolutely nothing. Even while my colleague Pupovac, who kept mentioning him, was with Sanader, we had no influence. I didn't have any influence in politics at the time, no one from the Most. And if you'd given up a good policy then it wouldn't have been the case of Agrokor and this situation wouldn't have happened. You were just servants of good leaders, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38148	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bull, I'm gonna beg you to get me out of here when I mentioned the word fascists in this House. If I mentioned it, then I'll resign as a parliamentary representative, but those are your words. We usually like to say antifascism, not fascism. Secondly, you've been the one who since you've been in Parliament, you've been crawling all those who are b or before and us who are now the first time in the House that we're criminals, that we're thieves and that we've brought this country into this situation where she is now. And I'm asking you where you've been and if you're Christopher Columbus who discovered America, because with your actions and calling everyone that we're criminals and thieves and that we're the ones responsible for the situation in this country, and you've taken the bat along with HDZ, the leadership of this country for the last two years. But you're the ones who keep coming back to the past, and you promised big reforms, and you just didn't do anything about it. So here I call on you to be more active in the future in the new guidelines in the development of this country, not to keep going back into the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38150	Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38151	Thank you very much. Everyone here is competing in the Istrian dialect, so I'm going to say, start with a sentence that unfortunately only Tulio will understand, and Kliman won't understand it most likely. ... You spoke very well before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't you understand, Kleman? You spoke very well before, you tried to share responsibility, but it seems to me that you have directed responsibility mostly towards one party and that you consider a lot of stupidity, that's what you said between the lines, and even clearly that one government that is now leading towards one better, according to better results is falling at this point. If I was wrong, correct me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38152	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38153	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, my colleague Furio, you've noticed very well. Maybe I'm more of a bridge person. For what reason? Because after the first government, the MOST fell and there was a major change in HDZ. And now in this assembly of 50% of HDZ MPs have changed, but MOSTs are the same. They're the same ones that were in the previous government, and they're the same ones that are now. So logic tells me as an engineer who's where he's guilty. Looks like there's no luck in marriage to the Most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38154	Representative Tomislav Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38155	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Demetlika, I find it interesting to me that your quote on the movement of MOST from some position, means to the right. We're witnesses, we're a little left. So when we're going to attack someone, then right now, they're moving us to the side that suits them. So when we talk a little bit about problems in the economy, we touch both left and right. All these years, we've actually been going on that, we've found a lot of culprits who should self-responsibility show that they can't behave high duties. So when we touch someone, they kick us right on the other side as they answer. I do not see how we can be left and center and right and extreme right which I have heard unless it is perhaps a way to solve the issue of problems that have arisen just by destroying the property of the Republic of Croatia throughout all these years. If that's the part, then we'll take that part. But we cannot be called against Istria as a region. I don't know if we said one word in that direction or agreed to fight. I come from Srijem, to regionalize my Srijem or Slavonia or anyone else. We are talking about real problems and we just want to equalise the rights of people who live throughout Croatia. I'm glad the situation in Istria is relatively good, better than anywhere else. But you realize that I want to have the same conditions and that we don't want it happening through Agrokor to collapse our economy. In my county, three key companies are collapsing and we're watching it. And then in the end, they're going to ask me as Parliament's representative from that end, and what you've done, who's responsible for all these years? I can't deal with that. I have to simply tell me as agents we have to talk about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38156	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38157	Thank you, Mr. President. An esteemed colleague of Panenic's. I'll start with this reform first. Your ministry in both the previous government and this one announced a reform of local and regional self-government. In your proposals, Istria has always been attached to another region, IDS does not accept it. Whether this is proposed by MOST, SDP, HDZ, this is the IDS' position, and we will stand firm at that with all reforms, and you have proposed two fortunately failed to realise them. As far as Istria is concerned as an independent county or an independent region. As for the left and right, you probably don't know whether you're left or right, because when we negotiated that first combination and when it was almost all agreed with your partners, I'll tell the left, you played left and you turned right. And all your political activity in these two years shows you're tough, I'll tell the right of the HDZ, and you confirm that's not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38158	The Labour and Solidarity Party's representative club and the Reformist have applied for the debate. In their name will speak MP Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38159	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with ministers, colleagues and colleagues. After 13 hours almost full in this House, I've already changed my debate on behalf of the club on a few occasions, so you'll let me read one piece, and also because of my health condition I'm no longer able to be so focused. I don't want to have my debate on behalf of the club, and I don't want to impose any decision on either of you personally, because today we've changed thesis on a number of occasions. The debate is on the motion to vote for mistrust to Mr. Maric, and that is all I want to refer to in the name of the club. I don't want to push anyone's point of view, but I don't want you to have your views on many occasions and even in public and on television the ultimate. Whether the Prime Minister is going to provide the majority, or whether the motion for a procedure for the resolution of Minister Maric will provide the majority in the Assembly, we will decide by voting either for one or for another option, and that will resolve the situation. But it seems to me, I must say, I'm sorry that there are no fellow Pupovec, I don't know yesterday or the day before that that today's debates have led us to the situation of Parliament as Agrokor was in a situation where we need a temporary manager. Today's debate shows that. When I refer to the motion for impeachment of Minister Marić then and as a lawyer, it is true that there is something called political responsibility for the exercise of public office and do not dispute the right of any parliamentary representative, any club to constantly question that responsibility, but I cannot support it because of my calling or because of my education. Presumption of guilt. I'm for the suspicion of innocence. The presummation of guilt doesn't exist. If we start with the proposal that Minister Maric is in conflict of interest, so we have an institution called the commission and we wait for the decision of the commission and then we ask for resolution. I will raise my first hand for resolution if this commission finds that Minister Maric is in conflict of interest. As long as it's not coming from the presumption of innocence, I can't support the motion to resolve it, nor will the members of my club do it. Mr. Vrdoljak spoke today in his debate we are not all the same, I agree with that, but colleagues and colleagues, I have to turn the page to that I have warned you, by my discussions, by our insult, by what the distinguished representative Pusic has warned that we are bringing out a man's soul, and we are not talking about the problem and its solution, we think that we like the people and we are calling on the people and we say that all people are looking for a solution, and this people actually thinks the following, I am sick of your fights, and that's why you are all the same, and we claim that we are not. So to sum up, as far as Agrokor is concerned, my personal opinion and the club are concerned, and so we voted that this government is in any way connected with Agrokor or the owner of Ivica Todorovic, I do not believe that it would come before this Parliament with so-called Parliament. Lex Agrocorom, I don't believe. Because by passing this law, we also provided the entire economic system of Croatia, secured the collection of debts to small suppliers, especially the OPGs, protected jobs and secured salaries for employees. But what's important is that when it comes to Ivica Todorovic the owner of the company's management rights, by naming him as I call him Commissioner. In the end, I'd like to say the following, citizens, and then the whole family, especially young people, leave the country. What do you think it's just because of the economic situation, the economic situation? I think it's part of it and because they don't see the perspective exactly because of our fights and our permanent conflicts, that's why. And it conflicts that, on world-wide issues, divisions on national and other issues, and that is why they do not see perspective and go away. And in the end, why did I sign a motion for President-in-Office's resolution? When did I lose my trust? Not when the signature was collected, but when Mr. President of the Parliament made a statement that he was a citizen, so a private person filed a criminal complaint. The President of the Parliament is primarily a public person and the President of the Parliament for me if he had any knowledge of reasonable doubt that there are criminal acts then he should have met us MPs about what we should have been familiar with, which we have also reached certain conclusions and, as a Parliament, take appropriate measures. The President of the Parliament at no time, because it represents the state, at no time can act as a private person. That's why I lost my trust at that point. So in the end, we, as a club, will support Minister Maric's stay in place, Mr Maric, as Minister of Finance. At least I have personal objections to him when the tax laws were discussed, when I proposed at least that tax amendment to the real estate swap, but I hold you in my word that after a year we will analyse how much income there was and we will likely have a chance to change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38160	Mr. Vlaović, what I reported was something that you could absolutely all, the entire Croatian public read in the media before I reported it. Representative Boric,...... Yes, you can. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I agree. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Each of us has the right to an opinion. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Representative Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38161	Thank you very much. I'm signing everything you said in your speech, and it's clear that you didn't want to force anyone to say it yourself, any opinion, any opinion, but you clearly explained why you took the position you said today. Because after 13 hours of debate today, I'm trying to figure out what's going on in this assembly. What I see and logically, everyone attacks the Most except you and HDZ. And everyone will vote with the Most to bring down the minister. It's the ones who attack them the most. What kind of messages are these? That doesn't make sense. Then I listen to a colleague from Istria, says anarchy and uncertainty in the tourist season are threatened if instability occurs. But we're going to take down the minister to make that happen. So what's more important here? Particular interests of individual parties. And everyone calls on citizens and protects the interests of the parties. So I'm really trying to figure out what this is. I watch that crazy, confused, normal show sometimes so we can figure out what's going on here today. So a series of illogical moves, policies, opinions that are spoken here today but all about one meeting together need to be blamed on one honest, working, professional man pre-convicted so that everyone has reason to spend only particular interests and not pursue the interests of Croatian citizens. Only few in these moments have what you have now said to the power of mind, conscience to stand on the defender of the interest of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38162	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38163	... One of the motives of my brief debate was actually your replica in which you said homo homogamous lupus or man is human. [[Specially enabled.]] Namely, and also one of the replicas of Mr. Grbin who actually spoke on behalf of the club about a potential conflict of interest or about indications. He's a lawyer like me. You know, we're all here in a potential conflict of interest, all of us. And each of us can be talked about indications. And at the end of the line, we all had to file that application to the commission. And that's why I'm calling for a presummation of innocence. And that's why I'm against the presummation of guilt in advance. And that's why I took such a stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38164	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38165	Respect. I remember Mr. Varda when I spoke to you once, and you told me then, Ivan, I was the assistant minister of the economy. And he says what happened, he says they asked Agrokor for me to go to their hands, the boss asked for it, I didn't go to them. And says Ivan, everyone before me, after their term of office ended, went to work with the boss in Agrokor, and he only didn't call me. He said he didn't call me because I didn't hit him. And in the case of Minister Maric, we have a reverse situation. We have a situation where the minister was an assistant minister and when his term of office ended, he went to work with the boss. So why did Todoric invite him? Well, he didn't invite him for no reason. If he hadn't been on his arm, he probably wouldn't have called him. And then from Agrokor he comes back to the government. What a salad! And he's such an important member of the government that Plenkovic says, no matter what the hell, let the government fall just so that the man stays. What they're going to say is, in fact, Plenkovic is not the one holding the strings in his hands and that there are other players above him. And I'm afraid the reason why you're holding his ladder isn't because you believe that he's not guilty or that he's being set up, that conspiracy against him is media, from the public, I don't know from most MPs, etc. but only because you moved from this side of the opposition to the ruling, i.e. because you migrated from HSU to this Bandic club that protects for who knows what reasons HDZ. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38166	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38167	Comrade Pernar, what I've told you is true, but I've repeated it from this pay phone. Calling all the governments that favored either from the left or from the right, that's what I said from the pay phone. But this government of Mr Plenkovic, whose composition is Minister Maric, what do you think he would try to conflict the interest of lex Agrokor preventing? What do you think lex Agrokor was brought to the government's conflict of interest or to cheer for Ivica Todorovic? If we didn't understand the essence of that law, then I really can't help you there. I can't really help you there, if we don't realize that Agrokor is not just one company, that Agrokor is Croatia's economy and that it can lead the whole economy into a terrible crisis I can't really help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38168	Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38169	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Greetings to the Prime Minister and all members of the government, good evening! Mr. Varda, like this. I'd just have one remark on your exposure, which is that the notion of a presummation of innocence doesn't actually belong in this place, it belongs in criminal law and belongs to courts. We're not talking about criminal responsibility here. We are talking about political responsibility here and we are talking about whether Minister Maric, who sits there, has confidence. It is a key word, trust of MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We do not determine here whether he should go to prison or something or in some way wronged himself about the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, we can't talk about the presummation of innocence here. You, of course, have the right to any attitude you want, but here it is ultimately about trust. Do you, after all, think you obviously have this rhetorical reading, after all here, have confidence that not only the minister, but this government can represent and lead this country without any doubt that they are doing so in accordance with what we talked to our colleague Bačić today, that definition of conflict of interest, so that I can truly conduct my duties impartially. It's a matter of trust, it's not a matter of presummation of someone's innocence, it's a matter of trust and political responsibility. And in that sense, when we are individually tomorrow, namely voted each of us will have to say whether or not he has confidence and it will remain recorded, be sure of that. It's a much bigger responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38170	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38171	My colleague Glavasevic, you amaze me. You come from the academic community and you limit the suspicion of innocence, and you claim that man is in conflict of interest, and you have a commission to determine that. Well, it's not up to him to prove his innocence, it's on some evidence to establish that he's in conflict of interest. You don't understand that at all. I'm sorry you belong to the academic community without understanding it. And secondly, don't press me to vote the way you vote. It is your right to vote on how you vote, and it is my right to vote on how I will vote and do not threaten me with a public vote. I'm not afraid to express my opinion publicly or secretly or by resisting the button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38172	Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38173	Thank you very much. Comrade Varda, all of us here who have diplomas are members of the academic community and I think that even if I am not a member of the academic community that we do not need to dissipate what trust means, which means doubt of conflict of interest, it is very clear, and here I agree with my colleague Glavasevic. No one threatens, every vote is public, and if you're already talking about sticking to me, then it's great that while we're discussing the Minister's trust in the government, you're talking about your trust with the President of the Parliament, so let's talk so much about keeping the subject. You say we're not all the same. Yeah, we're not all the same. We are not the same that we do not take the right to interpret what the will of the Croatian people is that you take after this speaker. I'm taking the right to vote that I can look in the mirror in the morning and tell Domagoj you did the right thing, and that's what I take for granted, not to interpret what the Croatian people think. If you want to talk about it, we can talk about the polls. What we've secured with Lex Agrokora, what you've provided with lex Agrokora, nobody knows, I've said it a hundred times, it's an equation with all the strangers, we'll just see it, I don't know it. I wish we had secured three thousand jobs in Slavonia that I was talking about, but I can't swear to my voters, my fellow citizens that by voting that law we really did. And you're saying that in a constructive debate you've been driven by the Latin of our colleague Boric, so I'm going to tell you something shockingly the same thing. If you say "Homo Homini Lupus" then I will tell you, HDZ and its satellites, and I include you, HZD Hrvattu is a lupus, HDZ and you are wolves that tear this country apart, precisely by this irresponsible behavior and by not enjoying the trust of this House that represents this people. There's so much about trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38174	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38175	Comrade Hajdukovic, you proceed exactly where your colleagues have stopped all day, and this is a cause of conflict. It's your right. I didn't talk about it on behalf of the people, it's your colleague Maras all day saying that all the polls show that the entire people against the government of Andrej Plenkovic, all day long. Listen to the phonogram, I was saying something else. That the people listening to us and these conflicts here in the Parliament thinks we're all the same, that's the direction I'm talking about, nothing else and found out that we're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38176	Representative Tomislav Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38177	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you have just stated a loss of confidence, you have lost confidence in the President of the Parliament the moment he came out as a citizen and requested, signed, sent a criminal report, if you noticed March 29th, the day before. I have just asked to be handled according to where it was clearly said by one of the Russian bank's leaders that false reports were made in Agrokor. What happened? For 24 hours, no one moved, nothing happened, no state's attorney's office, no institutions, no sign of anyone's problem if the Russian bank thinks that the fake reports of Agrokor are nothing. What did the President of the Parliament do? He simply became the synonym of the Croatian man who seeks to reveal the truth. If it's a loss of trust, it should have been requested by each of us. He was an example to all of us here who are in the assembly about it. And you didn't ask the question, and where did we lose confidence in Minister Maric? I lost him on the example of Badell when there was, I fought to speak, I called here. What happened? It went into the hands of Agrokor, so you didn't notice. So it's not just a company for itself. Who owns the Meteor? Darko Prince. What was he? He was Director of the Consuma. And what is it still? He's still the director of Adria Retaila and is still chairman of the MultiPlusCard Supervisory Board, so he's still in Agrokor. So to write them off, let them enter with their small capital and take over 50%, it's a loss of trust. And I will never stand on that subject and I want it to end. So you can't just after all the warnings. I am also a colleague, and she talked about it was within that government and the problems about it, and then a decision was made that was negative for the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38178	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38179	Comrade Penenic, if you had filed a criminal report, I would have congratulated you. But I was talking about the President of the Parliament who is the president of all of us MPs, no matter what club we belong to. And if, on the basis of some information he received just as President of the Parliament's office, it was his turn to meet the Parliament, it was his turn to meet the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38180	Representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38181	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Varda, I was in the last session of the Parliament when there was also an overload, Mr. Bandic was one of the main actors of that story only then were in the interest of others, then there was INA MOL, now Agrokor. It was Mr. Spika on the phone, and now it's you, so it's really the same interests and they're different actors. I just want to see that, i.e. I want to believe that the citizens of Zagreb will recognize this and that they will know how to punish it in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38182	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38183	I mean, Mr. President of the Parliament, I can't answer because I just didn't hear the line, I didn't hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38184	And then you could never get up and you asked for a reply to the replica. Well, here's because he can't do it again. We're moving on. The HNS Club, HSU also reported for participation in the debate. Agent Ivan Vrdoljak will speak on their behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38185	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Prime Minister, Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. 13 hours of discussion. I'll draw attention to a little detail, at first maybe. At 13 hours of discussion, the HNS and HSU clubs participated in the debate for 5 minutes, made clear their position and tried to save not time but dignity in this House. In the last few days, political culture and communication have really touched the bottom and I will repeat it many times. Until yesterday's partners are now called dictators, mobsters, dangerous people, and these people are not normal. But there's still a lot, a lot of words in these discussions, but I'm going to take out one detail, I'm not calling anyone personally. Citation: "I am the enemy of Plenkovic and Pupovac." Do we really think that we should have enemies and wars in Croatia today? Do we really need to communicate in a way that there are enemies? If we are enemies of any of you, because none of you are my enemy, then my enemies and all those people who trusted you to sit here. Because when I tell one of you personally that you are my enemies, then thousands of people, tens of thousands of people who voted for you are my enemies. It's out of decency, culture, dignity I'll never allow. And do you really think that Croatia today is not more about solutions, ideas, dignity than about hostility and wars? And today more than ever as an opposition who spent 13 hours at a club of 10 MPs 5 minutes we have the right to go before you, in front of the public of Croatia and to talk, to quote what it looked like 20 days ago, the relationship between MOST and HDZ, what it looked like with the budget, when Prime Minister Plenkovic was drawn up, as he looked a year ago or as many as 8 months ago at the destruction of the Government of Oreshkovic, what it looked like and the communication in the assembly of the Government of Oreskovic. And if we ever have the right to quote today, the pictures show and today we choose differently from the opposition and say people drop the ball, we have problems destabilized the state. It should ensure 400 million kuna that this project, Agrokora at all, makes sense, a chance to save anything from suppliers and producers. Someone needs to take responsibility for it, make some decisions, someone needs to finance it, they need to listen to them give it to the state where the MPs speak we go to war enmity to the end, we're going to kill each other. The citizens of Croatia and we really aren't people to pull each other's guts out, we really aren't. And we choose differently that even though we have the right to show quotes, pictures, I asked not to do that. I'll move on to the subject, we won't deal with investigating committees, I don't have enough information about Minister Maric's past and his activities, I don't know, I don't have any proof, and I don't have the right to do that. But I have a right to one, I have an obligation to protect the dignity of a person no matter how much I disagree with her at some point. And I will safeguard the dignity of the person I voted against twice while it was being elected because I was declared an opposition. Against whom I voted, his budgets because I respect him as a man. And that's my choice, that's our choice, but there are other choices here. And for us, I will repeat, although it is generally known, Minister Maric has one burden, and that is, regardless of what we have had to explain, 26.1. The clear message said there is no risk, I am familiar with the situation, the company in good condition, there will be no crisis. This could have been a message to the public or financial institutions in order not to have a major wave of blockade or reaction if the truth is said, but if this was said then it would have to be done in accordance with the real state, define short-term measures, prevent blockade, ensure more or less consensus of all stakeholders in this stabilisation process. And that's why, and then the bigger problem is that that's when the minister of finance of the Republic of Croatia says I'm exempt from decisions. That's not good people. Either you take responsibility or you don't take responsibility or you do this job or you don't do it. We need the finance minister in that situation. Although you've worked a hundred times somewhere you haven't worked. If a hundred times your family was working or you didn't have to make decisions, the liquidity had to come, it should have already come. We've been waiting for the last 15 days. If it comes to, if we're going to new elections, then who's going to secure a new liquidity? That's what we were supposed to do in the second month, get rid of it, maybe in the third month. But good. Secondly, today's recognition that the error was a HKD loan, and it is clear that everything is in line with the regulations but there was politics. And this is the political use of privileges that are inaccessible to citizens very much in a situation where our President of the Parliament today wanted a privileged relationship from APN on behalf of his brother and his wife or does not know the partners. It's not either, nor other allowed people, and we need to have some values and standards. We're not going in again, I'm going to repeat it without evidence clear in any other content because I have no evidence. Maybe someone has intelligence, like this, when proven. All right. But I will not give myself this privilege, and surely will not. We shall surely keep the dignity of each of you, including Minister Maric. Today we feel more than ever the responsibility to be worthy representatives of those people who chose us, who gave me a vote, gave you a vote and that's on this day when Croatia lost and political stability at one point that was really perspective let us at least feel it, so that we send a message to the citizens we won't war people. We'll just tell ourselves what we are, and you'll decide who's the best among us. You'll know which one of my other political competitors is who. I don't have to tell you a thousand times, there's history, it's written down. It's my job to talk about myself, not this way about every single person. We voted twice against the government and Oreshkovic and Plenkovic. We voted even against Lex Agrokor, we voted against even tax reform, against the budget. Most in the Parliament, different rhetoric. And I will conclude, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will vote for the resolution of Minister Marić and stop with faceless lies sending a message to citizens about it and rape in some way the Croatian People's Party. We have two values for which I will fight every time in a decent way. They're people first. We're in a party and we're in a country. Second value consistency, honesty, and not lie. And we're not going to step down from that, and that's how I'm going to repeat my position. The Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired as an opposition club vote for the resolution of Minister Maric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38186	A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38187	Dear colleague Vrdoljak, you've had such a calming performance, you've kind of hypnotized me recently. But you've told one lie. I did not say here that I would be the enemy of Pupovcheva and Plenkovic's Croatia, but after a statement by MP Milorad Pupovac, who told me that I had fascist statements, he called me a fascist. After today's attack by Prime Minister Plenkovic on me that I am a revolutionary, I have only found that I am obviously the enemy of those two partners who are the only ones left in this ruling majority for the time being. I just figured it out. You've twisted my words and don't do it. And when you talk about HNS attacks, there were no HNS attacks. It was merely a finding that there was a possibility that the HNS could join the HDZ coalition after the local elections. And I was talking about good relations between HDZ Vice President and you personally and links to the PPD. They're not lies. My colleague Bulj and I went to a coffee shop in Zagreb, we had coffee, when Ivan Vrdoljak and Josip Jurčević had coffee. Do you know who Josip Jurcevic is? I'm not talking about historian Josip Jurčević. This is the man who was connected to the PPD, who pushed the thermal power plant on coal in Pločas against whom we fought hard and former Interior Minister Orepic and President of the Council Petrov and myself personally, against HDZ, against the mayor of Dobroslavic, who also pushed the project, and this man was the main operative for the implementation of this project. The project, and you drink coffee with it. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38188	Thank you. Replication response. Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38189	So, counterpart Grumoja, that was the moment when you were in a coalition with Karamark or with HDZ because you weren't anywhere in political life until you were in a coalition with HDZ. So watch out for those people! So you sat with him in government, you worked with these people, you made political decisions. So watch them! You drank and ate miracles, and I'm with Mira Simic you know how many times I've been on coffee? Helped him. He asked me. Is that a sin? What do you think Plenkovic gets up and says Ivane I saw you with Simic for coffee. So do you think it's fun, is that the level of this House, the Croatian Parliament? So where are our reformers, our reforms, our reforms? Where are our guarantees, clear or followed by coffee, by cafes where you are sitting with another HDZ government or with the first HDZ government while your advisor is Željka Markic, and you are running to SDP, you choose who she sits with. I will talk to everyone for the sake of Croatia, except I expect decency and honesty, courtesy and honesty, nothing else. Today, we heard that President of the Parliament is surprised by those who will vote for Minister Maric. Until 15 days ago, until his three ministers were resolved as surprised, so I was surprised, I was not surprised, but it was a simple political action and you all voted nicely for the same minister and supported him. We're going to take out the stenograms, so we're going to show the pictures, so we're going to work out what you've been talking about, about each of the forms of government, so of course we're going to communicate with the citizens, so we need people, so that's the fact. So guard your dignity. or a man or himself. [[Intruder Petrov: Time, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38190	Thank you. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38191	Dear colleague Vrdoljak. Twenty days ago, a colleague of Grmoja was thundering, and we have no idea that we should respect these pranks and Minister Maric is our minister. And I can tell you reliably that Mr. Grmoya is neither fascist nor revolutionary. He's just a colleague of ours who has much more ambition than possible abilities. The coalition is a sort of marriage for a certain time and everyone has to understand it with a goal, with common interests and chairs are part of these interests and do not swear that you do not like chairs. And not only as with HSU was the well-being of pensioners and positive shifts in the pension system all the time in the Croatian Parliament. So you and the chair are part of the interest. I must say that such an ugly divorce case has not yet been seen by Croatian citizens. Politics isn't just political marketing, politics is honor, and word, and honesty. We gave the word four years ago and for four years we endured in the coalition. Don't think it's great to be in the coalition and everybody respects you. The coalition is like marriage, patience and perseverance to reach its goal. You're on the first step down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38192	I don't know. I guess it's a replica. But I would really ask Mr. Hrelja here before you give the opportunity, Mr. Hrelja, I was really liberal today, here I am glad to be in line with your beliefs, very liberal about the possibility of speaking in the Parliament, but don't really take advantage. This was not at all related to what MP Vrdoljak said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38193	Mr. President, why do you want to make this High House sterile?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38194	Well, I don't think you can say that at all after today, but here's how you feel about it. I'm sorry, it doesn't make sense. Mr. Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38195	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to deny my colleague Hrelja, I have a coherent marriage, far better than the HDZ-MOST coalition looks, so it's even far better than the SDP-HNS coalition looked. But when we jump aside, when we get serious, one of our main goals of political engagement must be to make the city, the municipality, the county or the state for which we took responsibility every day, month or year or four years' term better than it was yesterday. Croatia was better in 2015 than it was in 2011. She could have been even better, but she was better. Croatia is not better today than it was in 2015 and twice this marriage with full equal responsibility for each other has led to Croatia not being better today and I am sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38196	Representative Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38197	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vrdolj, HNS or HNS representatives supported the request for the resolution of Mr Marić and I would like to add to your discussion, i.e. to commensurate with you something that I think was our main problem in the HNS, or that we thought the biggest problem was for Mr Marić or Minister Marić, which is that, in fact, Minister Maric was at the beginning exempt from the decisions directly related to the biggest economic problem we faced in the past few months, which is the issue of Agrokor. So by the very act, a personal act, where he is exempt from making decisions about Agrokor has excluded himself as Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia from his job, the job of the Minister of Finance is to solve problems, especially those related to economic and financial problems, which is Agrokor. What we will have in the coming time if it continues to be so, means if Mr. Maric continues to be exempt from any decisions related to Agrokor, and the fact is that in the next period we will certainly have a whole series of topics that will be related to Agrokor and the problems that will be related to Agrokor that the Minister of Finance is exempt from this means we have absolutely in the next period of the non-functional finance minister. It was, I would say, the first key, so without any hysteria, the collapse of the government, without any hysteria at the HNS to do political, political points, we have quite reasonably concluded that such a minister for the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not functional.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38198	Representative Turina-Đuric, time is up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38199	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Turina-Đuric, therefore not a simple situation in Agrokor, we are all aware and there is no magic wand, I even think that even if we had come to some consensus, a broader political and that the ruling had more hearing in the 2nd month, there might be some imperfect solution such as this is not an imperfect solution and probably should be modified along the way because it is a complicated situation. But what is true is that, realistically, in the next few weeks, a new 400, about 400 million euros should be entered into the system in order to prevent a wave of pre-fashion proceedings and perhaps bankruptcy proceedings, and beyond them, bankruptcy proceedings by manufacturers and suppliers. And if that is not ensured, it can indeed be a big, huge, huge damage to the Croatian economy. Of course we're not going to talk about 400 million euros how much that effect is because it's nicer to talk about enemies, talk about wars like colleagues who were HDZ partners yesterday talk about wars. And the HDZ does not concentrate on important issues in all of this, but on or at least defines its position on size and does not send signals of stability, thus ensuring that 400 million euros that de facto only help people who have lived from that system, nothing in the system, nothing in the system, anything to save Todorov from huge, large numbers of pre-banking deals and bankruptcy proceedings. Now why did this happen, I'm going to speed it up, because by excluding Minister Maric, because we usually make decisions based on newspaper articles, there was pressure, newspapers write about it. And look, if you're who you are, Minister, take responsibility, make decisions, make results, they'll write a paper about the result, and it was the opposite, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38200	Next is the Club of Representatives who called for the debate is the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and on their behalf will speak representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38201	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Interesting of all the politicians here in this House, I was the most called today. All the media are asking why Misic signed for HDZ and Maric. Yeah, I did sign it and I signed it before I even talked to them in my head. Why gentlemen? I'm an entrepreneur who's been doing my job, and I've been thinking differently than you've ever done. I'm thinking already today how to pay my workers' wages, how to pay them wages and pay the tax and the obligations I've been doing this for 25 years on a regular basis. I'm fighting on a market that I have as much as any competition. And gentlemen, let me tell you, there is not a single problem for me, not in life, not as a man, not as a politician, not as a businessman. Gentlemen, I'm used to thinking for myself. You see, you half here if you thought with your own head you wouldn't be in the Parliament, interestingly, yes. Gentlemen of politics interestingly, the president wouldn't have put you in because you're against him. Try to say it, you won't say it either, because I see this Parliament is comfortable, very nice, yes. Mr. Vrdoljak, for 41 years, I have a job job, I pay all this state and now I'm on the budget and I see these citizens are suffering because I'm constantly in contact with them and I can tell you that it's the best thing to do with politics and to be a professional politician and to be with someone all the time. Me and Mr. Lovrinović, Professor. Lovrinović we stayed friends still, you see he's against, I'm in, it's interesting and it's that. Yeah, we didn't fight, we have different opinions. Why do we have different opinions? Because I think differently, I fully respect him as a man but I see something else. I see, last year we brought down the Parliament, I was against it, so they told me look at the media, you're for Karamark, I don't know this man at all, interesting. I've never even seen him again. I wasn't for Karamark like Karamark. I was just gonna keep working so we don't cost these citizens and raise some land and the economy to make it better. That's me. And this is you. Gentlemen, I've been with you and the Most and I'll talk about it later. The issue of Agrokor is a big question. I know as a businessman what Agrokor means in Croatia. It's like closing your heart rate, normally all systems fall. Yeah, God forbid Agrokor kneels, we're businessmen all in trouble. Yeah, we can play politics, we can play populism, we can do whatever we want, but we're in trouble. How do you solve the problem here I ask you all together here? Well, I don't know, how? Well, it's a private company, so let's get rid of it. I don't know what would happen in Slavonia if Belje, PIK Vinkovci, PIK Vukovar, where my company works. The question is, could I pay my workers' wages tomorrow? And that's the question. And that's what I'm thinking, my lords. Music signed it says. You see all the media. Pernar, here he comes, excellently, calling. He's a young guy, I don't blame him. -Pulism is nothing to me. They said no for you, we won't support you in the next election. My lords, I never told my first neighbor to give me a voice. No! No! The citizens know me, and they gave it to me. We know that Konzum 30% of the Croatian market covers. I am a businessman, a businessman, and the other day I was in Konzum na Črnomerac and I am looking at the shelf of Croatian wines Iločka, Beljska and all the wines of Croatia are very smooth. It was nice to see you, too, but my lords. When there's no consummation there won't be any of our shelves. That's what I'm thinking. Today I read that we are exporting 60% to Kuwait, increasing exports to Kuwait, Saudi Arabia. That's good to hear. It's good to hear and read Croatia goes up. Next, I'm being tied to the HDZ. I'm your HDZ man. It's an interesting thing that I've never, ever, ever been any HDZ from Vinkovci, here's the mayor of Vinkovci I didn't drink coffee until the Parliament when we met. I never had coffee with Mr. Chuljko. I had coffee with Galic the other day. There's so much about HDZ and me. I've never been in politics in my life, nor could any party buy me, and now it's thought that maybe someone could buy me. I don't need anything from politics, but nothing at all. But I need this Croatian state to move forward. We see GDP growth, we see export growth, yes, but we don't see it. We don't care about that. We have to take someone down so I can rule. That's very important. That's very important, gentlemen. I'm the Prime Minister, I'm the President of the Parliament, people want it to be. I don't need anything from that, but nothing at all. Mr. Maric's name was credited anyway. Okay. It's probably more favourable loans for even parliamentary deputies, if I haven't raised her. What if Maric didn't take the loan, and he had the property, so they'd say it's a thief, stealing. I don't know this man, but I saw him being an extremely capable and bright man. I, as a leader, would take it myself tomorrow. Gentlemen, I ask you economists who wouldn't have gone into Agrokor three, five years ago or 10 years ago? So please, who wouldn't. Everybody! But Todor and he were the Bureau, so he chose one capable young man. In my knowledge, how much information I had to get, that this same man didn't sign anything that would harm this Croatian state, and we know that the leader, the owner of a company like me, is in charge of the company, and I'm in charge of the end, and I'm in charge of the pay. Yeah. Since I was at the Most, here's Mr. Petrov, you all know how it was when we threw out the second day. Mr. Panenich, what did I tell you? What are you doing? The man could not come to say why he was expelled from you regardless of what he went to Milanovic. But you should say so. And it couldn't. Well, then you know the order of seven people who have come out of it very high-quality people. We'd be the strongest party today if I ran it. I've seen that Most has no leader and that's the problem. I'd be happy with you if you had a leader. You don't have a leader and that's the problem. Someone's going to say this in Parliament. This one's right-handed. This one hates Serbs. No, gentlemen, Mr. Lalovac, if it were him, I'd say the same thing about Mr. Maric. As far as I'm concerned, the finance ministers are two of the best men who run the Croatian state's finances and I respect them on this side. I'd be a Greek and a Greek for him if you'd put him away. Gentlemen, I've never hated Serbs. I can freely say I hate Serbian politics and now I'm going to say it. The Serbs never because I go to church and respect all men, there's no hatred in me for a man who's good. Yes, gentlemen, we'll probably have another election. What did we do? The cost to this nation of ours. When I was told that I support Karamark, I said I don't support Karamark as Karamark or HDZ today as HDZ, I support that this country is moving forward, and we're moving forward. So what happens now? Let's go to the election. This nation of ours is going to go crazy looking at us all here, so says the gentlemen, so you're a miracle. Being a leader is very difficult and making decisions is very difficult. What do you think President Tudjman brought the Croatian people to war and lost the war? Yeah, but he won the war. No Prime Minister here, I congratulate him on that decision. That's what I'd do as a leader, the same, same act I'd do. Gentlemen, let's talk, let's talk. He said enough gentlemen, we don't talk anymore. It's over for me, even if it's anything. Now, that's the mark of a leader, and I see a leader in it even though I don't know this man at all. You called me a bush, you can tell me what you want, and you know, you know, you know me very well that I was first against God Petrov and I told him no, hate God Petrova... all of you dear, but gentlemen, that's not how politics is run. You're becoming like a walking circus, that's a shame. There are wonderful people among you, I don't mind God. Elections, what's the price of the election? Nobody cares. How much does the economy cost, what's the cost of that election? I don't care about anyone, let's go make a circus, let's go chase out the I don't know, we got a system, you had the MOST police, you had a man, a minister of justice. You could have easily entered all the pores, I know there was a crime in the Croatian state, unfortunately it is. Some didn't pay taxes in this country, I said so, and I even washed HDZ, so I'm right about my Bosnian Posavina that doesn't help people return to their homes. That's what I want for everyone. But then I wasn't just saying, and if someone calls me HDZ's man, no, I'm nobody's man, I'm mine, I'm the one who decides. I see that we are leading this people into a chaos that will be difficult to get out of. If Agrokor sinks, someone would like to see the masses of the world here, gentlemen, then it's the end of our policies and our success and this beautiful country, which, unfortunately, I love very much, but we don't know how to lead it. If someone had such a beautiful country, we would be the best in the world today, but the Croats unfortunately have those who have ruined it and who are ruining it still. Thank you so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38202	Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38203	Thank you very much. I love that you are a man who comes from the economy, from a Christian family, and who understands these problems that are happening not only in this Parliament but in general looking at the economic sense. Of course, by looking here at colleagues who stood up for "the most vulnerable people" who are unemployed, they are laughing here today. They have a new election as a good morning, and at the same time we know how much damage it will cause in the economy if we repeat the elections as soon as possible. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is really not funny, this is so serious that you who are calling and replacing the SDP ministers and our partners from the Most today who are also sneering and laughing, and at the same time do not know what damage the real Republic is really worrying about. And these are the moments when we all need to think very carefully about what you're doing because we at HDZ are really here with a few people who understand our policy, according to the finance minister who's really in a short period of time, and I've already talked about it tonight, made a major shift in economic terms. Let's wonder why you're doing this. You only work because it's your interest, which you're interested in the chairs and places you once had, and you don't have them today. You don't care about the people, and you don't care about them at all. You are exclusively interested in Your positions. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38204	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Both you and your colleague Lucic injured article 235, which says what is a replica. My colleague Lucic did not replicate his fellow Micic, his colleague Lucic expressed his opinion, my colleague Lucic debated and now that I am not abused by this institute and that I answer to his political lunches and demagogues, I would ask that you respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38206	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38207	My colleague, I fully agree with you, I was saying that people are more important chaires than the interests of Croatian citizens. When we have a chance of GDP growth we have increased exports, we have all the parameters that show that it could go forward, if I tell you that my company had a minus last year, now it's a little bit started to grow, so I was a little bit happy about it, but how it's gonna end up irrelevant. The truth is that people like chair chairs, politics is power up to one time and then after politics when you're not in politics you don't know where they are or what they're going to be. And I hope that our current prime minister to whom I am giving full legitimacy and support that he will ban more theft and that he will simply move the state in the right direction, I see it in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38208	Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38209	Your Honor. Dear fellow Music. You've been talking about comfortable chairs, I could conclude that you're very fond of over-indulgence, you're always there when there's some kind of over-indulgence going on. And it is interesting that the Prime Minister, the current Prime Minister Plenkovic to whom you are supporting, had then succeeded in this predication in which you participated when you supported Zdravko Maric so that he would not become HDZ president, he would not probably be Prime Minister now and would not have your full support. So every time you go into some kind of disbanding parliament, when there are crisis situations, when you have to defend someone, you're always there. I wouldn't say that you're HDZ, you're a professional contortionist. You're always there when something needs to be changed. And as for the MOST and what you were saying, it's not true that Mr. Prgomet was expelled without being heard. My colleague Bulj and I and the President of the Parliament drove in the car towards Zagreb and called him Mr. Petrov, Mr. Prgomet, he answered, we asked what was going on, as nothing special. After half an hour on the portals of pictures from former Minister Kotromanovic's apartment. And we call him hard, he didn't pick up until tomorrow morning at 10:00. He could've told you guys here. I went for what I did, I didn't mess up, I went to talk, I saw what was going on. He was on purpose, he didn't want to tell the truth, obviously he had other intentions. So I think it was the right move and it was the right move that we fenced very quickly from you, because you always mean when someone needs you to participate very happily in the exaggeration. And if there were more like you, Prime Minister Plenkovic wouldn't be prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38210	I'd like to thank Mr. Grmoy's representative. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38211	I agree with you, Grmoya, if it wasn't for me, there probably wouldn't be a lot of it, but good. It's about overdoing. Well, you're the ones who keep wanting to work something out, but it's always a failure. Mr. Grmoya, you know who wrote you an economic program? Mr. Lovrinović. You know when the first night was that it called out that Mr. Lovrinović and we didn't want to vote. You know that well. It wasn't good Prgomet, it wasn't good Lovrinović, Gordana Rusak, Irena Petrijevcanin, Juro Martinović, me, so no one was good for you, 7 people, Petrina. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? Well, you've brought this country into chaos a second time, so that's what the people need to see. Well, you should see. Let's explain to the people why. I would support you and now if you'd said you left and said I was leaving, we're not going with you. When you get a leg, you spit on people. And when Plenkovic told you nicely, gentlemen can't do that. That's not how shrub works. That's not how business is done, so I can see both in, or politics. Man must be serious, compromises sometimes bring and if he disagrees to correct through the work of other people who do not work well but in the end have our courts and other institutions that monitor crime and theft and in the end you are always against something but you have done nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38212	Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38213	Your Honor, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I listened to your debate, listened to what you've been saying for the past few days, and I had no idea how you didn't understand the concept of conflict of interest. And then today I'm listening to your argument and I'm listening to what you're saying and something kind of sounded in my ear. It sounded in my ear that you were saying that you were running your firm, that you were at the head of your firm, that you were taking care of your employees, and then, thank God on the Internet, I had a little Googled you. And you know what I found out? I've discovered that in this House, you're professionally paid, and at the same time you're a craftsman. Did you hear about the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest? You're in the trade register and today you're registered as a craftsman. You're telling yourself to take care of your company, you said so yourself. You take care of your craft, you take care of his business. You take care of how the craft works. You know what that means? This means that you have not qualified in these years and a half to take the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, to read it and to see what it says in Article 14(1). And you know what it says there? That an official may not carry out management tasks in business entities. For what you're doing now, a fine of up to 40,000 kuna is being prevented. Because you simply must not, neither of us must be a parliamentary representative, you must not receive wages, and you must not do any other work. And that's what you do to my dear colleagues. Do you know why? Because you don't understand what a conflict of interest is. And now that I've read it because everything is publicly available, I am fully aware of why you can support Mr. Maric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38214	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38215	Mr. Grbin, Mr. Grbin, then you weren't in your tax administration and the people who run the crafts learned how to do craftsmen, then you didn't teach them, I shouldn't have taught them. But, Mr. Grbin, when you talk about a conflict of interest, did you Google how much I owe you in this country? Did you look at that? Did you see if she was in bankruptcy once, was my firm lost in 25 years? Well, that's what you see, Mr. coat of arms. You teach your employees who work around municipalities to know what they'll write to a craftsman. It's a shame for you to say it and you haven't taught your officers who need me away, I have a wife who's the same. So I answer to my property, Mr. coat of arms. Yeah, you're a populist, you're the man who's gonna crash to get power. You can't do anything else as far as I can see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38216	Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My friend, you've got to stop saying that we don't justify ignorance. And it's not me or my colleagues. It's not me or any of us here, or employees, municipalities, or cities, to teach someone else the right. It's your responsibility as a fellow state official. We are all responsible people, and we all need to be familiar with the laws of the state, especially since we bring them ourselves. But I didn't want to talk about it. I wanted to ask you something else. You spoke for a dear colleague on behalf of the club. So speaking of regulations, we're also talking about this House's Rules of Procedure. You spoke on behalf of the club, in the name of a club that is not unique. I get the impression that you from the pay phone on behalf of the club speak for yourself. On whose behalf are you actually speaking? You speak for your colleagues at the club who won't support Mr. Maric? So, that's something I'm interested in, and I believe the Croatian public, and I believe my colleagues here. When you say you support Croatia that goes forward. Well, a colleague in your Vukovar-Srijem County, whom I love very much and for whom I am extremely attached, who, by economic indicators and all others, is one of the worst counties in the Republic of Croatia because of what I like to say from the beginning of the world or from the formation of HDZ counties. That same HDZ that you are now supporting, that same government that you are now supporting, those prime ministers that HDZ has set up. You support the progress of your county dear colleague. The thing with Chuljka, that with Chuljko and Karlic you don't drink coffee, it's only for your honor. But if you say you're thinking with your own head, and you're imputing us not to, then you can't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38218	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38219	You see, colleague, interestingly, you're also from Slavonia, you're sitting in the SDP for a long time and leading this country and attacking me. Mr. Grbin doesn't know the right thing. I'm not a lawyer, and they don't know the right thing or they don't know who's running the turns, or they don't even know who's running the turns. Mr. Grbin or gentlemen in this country have not been paid 40 billion taxes. Did you Google whether Misic paid all the taxes? Google it! The conflict of interest, that you are all in conflict of interest. Because if Bernardic doesn't put you on the list, you won't be in the Parliament. And what else are you going to do? ... I know what your career is! [[You can't hear it.]] That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38220	Representative Željko Lackovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38221	Thank you. Dear Mr. Misic, you speak one language of entrepreneurs. I've been an entrepreneur for 15 years. Every first month, I pay the state until the last June, so the first in the month was January 1, May 1, or the Day of All Saints. I can see there's not much consensus on your speech, so I'm asking you if you're with one of the MPs and how many of them you could talk about business issues, let's say liquidity, about how to pay VAT. Have you met the people in this assembly who are seriously considering, they have concerns about how to pay someone's salary. How many people have you met here with an entrepreneurial internship, ambition? I don't know how many of them you could have talked to about these tax evacs you're talking about, and you don't even know what they're talking about when it comes to 6-year-old deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38222	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38223	I fully understand you as well as you do me. You know what it's like to earn a salary, you know what it's like to fight on the market from 1st to 30th, and then 31st to 5th or 10th of a month to pay the dues, pay all the taxes, pay all the things that, suppliers. I know all that well. These gentlemen, most of them don't know, they have no idea. You see why he calls me if the turn is on the edge of Mishic? Ivica Misic is the owner of the craft and my wife is also registered, and gentlemen if any of the rights do not know, so to say I am an official, but it is a craftsman, I answer with my property. I know what it is, unfortunately, I wish there were at least one 30, 40% of those like me here, then the state would certainly function differently and certainly not go into the destruction of this government or the destruction of the government by now, and these are people mostly on the budget that pays them he doesn't know when he earned, or what he did, or how much he contributed to this people. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38224	Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38225	Thank you, Mr. President. And my colleague Misic, here I was beat by colleagues Grbin and Hajdukovic in a section I wanted to replicate for you. But in one messed up debate where it was difficult to catch a head, and a difficult tail, with both Serbs and Serbian politics, one you love, one you don't like. I'm actually interested in who you're representing in the end? So in this House, we need to take care, among other things, of the importance of politics, of ensuring that citizens return faith in politics, trust in politicians, and I don't really know who you represent. You were selected on one list, you moved to another club, you ended up in third. You spoke for the club today, you spoke for yourself. What attitudes that club will have at the polls tomorrow, all three different. So who exactly are you representing? Did you spend one moment with your voters you've already cheated three times before, and you're giving us lessons here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38226	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38227	I cheated on voters? You've been cheating for 25 years, you and your team have been cheating on voters for 25 years. You see, Mr. Jovanovic, you throw out your name and go to the polls and see what you get. You won't get anything. Join the SDP, put you first on the list and then pass. I know that. I'm not a politician, I don't know exactly how politics is run, but I know the economy I'm looking at. You are Mr. Jovanovic and similar to yourself, sitting there, hanging out with your party president, and he's putting you on the list. Look, I didn't put my name on anyone, put my name on it with my friends, and went through no trouble at all. These citizens have known me for 40 years as a decent man and a good businessman, so you should be ashamed that I wouldn't be here if my citizens hadn't chosen me, who appreciated me for the first time and for the second time. Unfortunately, here's the third time you're going to take down a government that works well, and that's another thing you don't know, it's your job to take down, to be an obstruction. I know you're the opposition, but gentlemen, it's you, and this is me. I'm different from you anyway. You go to the hospital and treat people, and don't... policies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe we'd have more use for this people than you're doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38228	Representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38229	Dear counterpart Misic, you said what politics and the weight of decision-making means to you. What have we heard here today in this assembly since this morning since 10:00 p.m. when we met? We heard from the promoters how Dad liked him in the head, so we heard who Mr. Vrdoljak was drinking coffee with, so we heard who called who on the phone and wondered why Prgomet was at Milanović's, etc., etc. Here all this day I haven't heard a P from politics it's already been mentioned here tonight, I haven't heard anyone even heard about the weight of making... but what weight will this debate have and this decision by our citizens, by our cities, by the municipalities, by the Republic of Croatia? We've killed ourselves in cities and municipalities this past four years this time of crisis to prepare documentation, prepare projects, build infrastructure to attract an entrepreneur. Now that it's on its way, he thought of little Hansel at the Most so he could deal with politics. Is that politics? Is politics not supporting their fellow government, is politics gathering votes to bring down the government to end the processes? And no one here has been up five times already and I keep mentioning one word, a pity, which is a pity of this debate and of this day for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and whether we are making sure that another year will be lost, that many resources will be lost. from European funds that could emerge, that many projects will not be implemented. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] For what? It's the whim of a little edge at the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38230	Representative Klaric is out of time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38231	Comrade Klaric, I don't know you enough, but I notice you in the Parliament and your speeches, I know you're the mayor as far as I know Bakar. What's it like to be mayor, to be the manager of a community, to bring into that community some kind of business people, to make a deal? Unfortunately, those who call me or when they did the job or when they found who they brought in or who they brought in, even Mr. Jovanovic mentioned to me Serbs, I don't know what reason to assume, but that's his problem. Second thing, why colleagues didn't support their colleagues, that's the question. If they were in the coalition, I think they should support and stay. Unfortunately, for the second time, they did not support their partners they chose. I wasn't with them, I went out with them, and I'm not carrying that responsibility, and if there's an election, we'll see what the citizens say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38232	For individual participation in the debate, a representative has applied, so I'm sorry I haven't seen you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 238 was injured, so you can't give a co-worker a flat-rate assessment of someone on this side or on the other side. I don't dare, and then I wonder how you can. Besides, it's really fascinating to me that someone who sits in the Parliament and says to himself that he's not a politician, it's like I'm saying to myself that I'm not a surgeon but I'm operating, but she's still a folk, I'm not a gynecologist, but I can look at that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38234	Thank you. Representative Sasa Djujic has applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38235	Thank you, Mr. President. It's already too late, there's already a lot of things being said today. I've been honestly thinking about withdrawing my argument, but I want to say two, three things, just like seeing myself, I don't want to like my colleague Misic insulting everyone in this assembly and saying that they're all stupid and that I'm the only one who's smart, but I'm going to say some attitudes. So, tomorrow I will vote in favour of the recall of Minister Maric and for all of these reasons that we have stated in our proposal and today's debate has only strengthened my position and that in a few things. This is the first, because Prime Minister Plenkovic this morning when he defended Mr. Maric with not one single sentence, he did not dispute any of our arguments, none of our three proposals, but his debate was exclusively ten minutes of the HDZ-MoST relations, trust, non-trust, collegiacy, that this is not only the state, parties and coalitions, and this is just a confirmation of what we said several times today that for this crisis the authorities in Croatia are currently guilty of not only HDZ but also MOST, they are guilty together. Croatia too today is a hostage to their violated relations. Then they argued as arguments that the elections were expensive, that they would stop the projects, that it would be a shame, that the weight of these decisions would have an impact on our cities and municipalities, yes, that, that my colleague Klaric only fantasize, I am sorry because this is what I refer to you for saying all day, but less damage is the cost of choice than the damage we suffer from this incompetent government that is unable to make decisions. And we didn't cause this damage and we didn't stop these projects, nor did we cause a crisis of power. The government was challenged by Prime Minister Plenkovic when he replaced the three ministers and the three ministers who voted against their government's decisions, when you did not pray to agree seven days before that cabinet session that normal partners were being negotiated then you caused a crisis and damage in this country because such responsible people do not. And today we've been listening to all day shooting between the MOST and HDZ and pointing fingers at us like it's our fault that Prime Minister Plenkovic replaced three ministers from the Most or because they voted against their counterpart in the government with whom he sat there for a year and a half days. Secondly, there were also arguments that the minister was doing his job well, that he owed us cheaply, that he was a responsible, good, honorable man from a respected family. Look, I believe he's a good, honest, honorable man from a respected family, but we're not discussing this right now. You are today, Mr. Minister, at one point very emotionally here when you said that everyone is attacking you, everyone spits and that it's very difficult for you. I believe it's hard for you, but look, it's politics. The moment you became a minister, you accepted it yourself, and you chose that path as well as all your colleagues sitting next to you, like all of us. And every once in a while in the election, one learns a lot about himself that he didn't know. And the true and the false. And that's how it is, and that's our job, and on that side, I don't feel sorry for you. But on the other hand, it's not unfair, you took out a loan, it's an immoral act, at a favourable interest, you used your position to get some preferential interest on the loan. Look, you didn't commit anything criminal, it's not a crime, it's not unfair, it's all by law but it's not right. And that's where your dignity and legitimacy fell. That's why you have to leave. You can't be a minister anymore. The other thing is, you're out of your mind. Well, I'd rather believe that you're clean, if you hadn't made up your mind, than if you'd said I could make all the decisions calmly, and I won't be exempt from anything. What kind of minister can't make a decision about anything and at the moment a key problem in our country is Agrokor and the situation in Agrokor and how the company will end and all operations on Agrokor must be run by the finance ministry, whose head is the minister who has been excluded from everything in order not to be in conflict of interest. Well, then it's fair to say good-bye to your comrades, I'll leave, I won't be a burden to you or to the coalition or to the citizens, and I'll go. I'm not a thief, I didn't steal but I'm a burden. I can't be here anymore. And then I would appreciate you more than I've appreciated you in the last few days. And now that I'm looking at this behavior, this morning, the firm holding of the chair, where we have a prime minister who lost most of Parliament because he can't show it to us in seven days and not leave the prime minister's position. We have you who won't leave the minister's post. Here's what I'm waiting for, I'm afraid here's a fellow living wall who's gone, I'm afraid you'll be calling out to prevent the dissection, that you won't give yourself up from the Ban Courts. And when we declare your mistrust tomorrow that you will not want to leave, you will call your colleague Pernar to protect you there. Look where you've led us. And the citizens are watching the circus today for two days and this bickering. Here's my advice. Save your face. Tomorrow before the vote, you resign and leave nicely, the prime minister, to resign, to disband Parliament, and to go back to the elections. Here, and Milanovic back, while he was at least a stable government colleague. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38236	Representative Marija Jelokovac responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38237	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, it is not true that the prime minister did not say anything in his address this morning about your allegations against Minister Maric, but made it very clear that there is no argument for any of the allegations you have stated. The fact is, even though you've been arguing all day that you're acting as a responsible opposition because you care about the interests of this country, you're actually doing the opposite. The responsible opposition does not challenge and discredit a minister who works well, professionally and has behind him the results of the work and you call him without any argument, you want his shift only to destabilise this government and eventually come in for a position for new elections to regain power, that is your interest. That's the essence of this whole story. The responsible opposition reacts and calls the ruling when there are arguments for it, when the rulings do not work properly and do not have the results of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38238	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38239	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you are right here in your replica again what I said in the debate. You're saying that we call a minister who works well, who has results, which is successful and I just said it doesn't matter, it's important that he's in conflict of interest, it's important that he can't make decisions, it's important that he worked in Agrokor when Agrokor had the biggest crisis. I'm not saying that he's responsible for it but that's the fact that he was there. The second thing, you said that the prime minister had given a whole series of arguments to which he challenged our claims, is, he was, he was talking about how the three MOST ministers came and they raised their hand there in front of the cameras, so like that's not loyalty, it's not credibility, it's not how it works, he had to replace them, partners, how he's equal to all the ministers, it's his arguments about what we suggested. And secondly, you say without any argument we have filed a motion for the discharge of the minister. So you tell me what the argument is not that someone got a preferential loan from a bank whose supervisory board sat exclusively as a state official and only on the basis of the fact that as a state official there is entitled to a privileged credit on which employees normally have an employee? What's not an argument and it's not true that Minister Maric was there, that he was there as a state official, that he got a privileged loan? Well, the man in the debate today I told the media I was wrong, I should have reported it, I should have said it. If he'd said that eight days ago if he'd made a mistake, maybe this wouldn't be today, this debate. Maybe the Prime Minister would have solved it himself and we wouldn't be in this situation. So just listen to the arguments, don't, you're the one who's on a flat-rate basis, no arguments, no flats on good work, and successful results, successful manager with a successful property card.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38240	Representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38241	My colleague, it is interesting how in these late hours you try to be very fond of the Croatian people if they are still watching. But you can't say the Prime Minister didn't explain or give answers to your allegations. Well, the prime minister was actually trying to say, to explain what you wrote in your proposal whether it was your party president in his opening statement he didn't even mention, most of that stuff. So it would be good if you didn't call for resignations that you did in your debate, because what you think after that, and it's in your interest, you're all talking today, and you're in the interest of stability of the state. Make up your mind what's in your interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38242	Replicate response, MP Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38243	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues are in our interest the stability of the state. You say think carefully about your decisions, don't call for resignations, because what happens next. It is clear what follows, the elections follow, and then the citizens will say what follows behind the elections and who was right about it, who was wrong about it. You co-workers didn't tell me about me now you didn't say a single argument why the minister should stay, but you were just saying that the prime minister gave me, this morning, to us that he killed our claims which is simply not true. I don't want to. I appreciate you too much to be outwitting with you right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38244	Representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38245	Thank you very much, esteemed President, dear colleague Djujic. So here you are through your exposure essentially demystified the whole story today. So, SDP when there is nothing to run from the topic, because they have no evidence against Minister Maric. You yourself said it was a privileged loan, arguing, questioning, not the legality of the loan, but questioning the morality of such an act. I'm surprised when you're talking about how you haven't asked the morality of your economy minister who, instead of dealing with the Agrokor issues for four years, traveled through America and purposelessly spent budgets. Is that moral? Is it moral to fly and use your position for 7 kunas as your officials have done? Is that when you asked for sanctions? Was anyone responsible for that sort of thing? So, the whole story, all day long, is about your transparent political interests, your desire to create a climate that causes early elections, and you don't want them yourself. The desire to replace ministers and to disable a stable government in its work. Therefore, you will not succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38246	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38247	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's not in politics, you guys are turning the tables here again. We don't judge anyone, we don't tell anyone, there's no premonition of innocence here. This isn't a court, this isn't a trial, and this isn't an indictment. We're here talking about an apparent conflict of interest, an apparent conflict of interest, that man has raised a privileged loan based on the position he had. But there are still a few arguments that require the Minister's recall. Did you even read our proposal? I don't think so. And now you're telling me about our transparent debate. And what was your debate? What 7 kuna summers are you talking about, dear colleague, in the middle of the night today? Well, it would be transparent for me to start now who you're talking about, I don't know about three times painted tunnels, millions stolen from Sanader's government, Croatian citizens, which is why your party has been tried twice on the defendant's bench for procedural mistakes. It's a transparent debate you see, but I didn't discuss it that way. Look, you're talking about 7 kunas. Well, I can talk like you do. ... Well, about the conflict of interest, yes. [[You can't hear it.]] You had a president who had already fallen one government because of a conflict of interest and his wife. My fellow dear, you weren't here, then in this House, now you've come as well as I have. I had one break. But look, it's a conflict of interest. Is that how we're gonna argue? Your colleague first started talking about transparent discussions. I didn't mention it at any point, I was just sticking to the subject. I sometimes know how to wander away from the subject in replicas, but in discussions I stick to the subject and don't wander around. And when you have nothing to say, then you talk and keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38248	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38249	Thank you very much. Here we go in 15 hours of debate today, so 14 and a half hours. A lot's been said. I'll look back on a few things that have been said in the last few hours that I am particularly concerned about. Unfortunately, I see now that the National Minority Representatives Club has left. Their discussion of Mr. Pupovac's club president in me would say a common, very emotional tone which called for more interests, and unfortunately he didn't say anything about what he thought about the proposal itself, because we can't be led by the stability of the government, and that's obviously the only thing that was important at this point for national minorities and that the government takes four years. Just as Mr. Misic before each here and last time before the end of the term of office is actively involved in surviving. So he, Mr. Spica, and I don't know who else was those three guys who overdid it until the last minute. Everyone already knew we were going to the election. They were the only ones who were over-lying. So we should be guided by the principle of whether something is right or wrong. Is it right that Prime Minister Plenkovic does not have a majority and we see that now one club of MPs has filed a motion for the disbanding of the parliament to show, to force Prime Minister Plenkovic to show whether he has a majority or not. At this point, we have shown very clearly to the Croatian public through discussions, through a statement of representatives. I hope that tomorrow at the vote, all these MPs who have come forward in the past days and in the debate, that they will be called off, that they will come and vote. And if that is so, it will be 77 MPs we will have a clean situation, regardless of the cramping and the problems that and the way that Prime Minister Plenkovic now wants to ensure that this is not the case, and where in tomorrow's newspaper I see that the Prime Minister Shakespeare's advisor says he won't have an opposition at 9.30 76 MPs, indeed... clearly so Shacks knows that. Shex knows everything. So on that side, if people are principled, if they stick to their views on what they're saying, I'm sure we'll have the right majority tomorrow. If they don't again, I'm sure HDZ won't show tomorrow that there are 76 MPs against this proposal. So most of them don't exist. There are interesting discussions like Mrs Jelkovac had, the quality opposition says, and then explains what the quality opposition should do. Well, I can't believe you want to judge what's good for you, what's not. I guess we should act on the principle that HDZ wants, that would be quality. So you expect us to act on a pattern that is acceptable to you and that we think the opposition should behave. So don't expect it, it's not possible because our values are completely different. It's normal for you to use your position as minister, you're normal here and today your officials who stole money from Fimi Media are very active to HDZ, it's all normal for you. I don't think that's normal. So that's what our party doesn't have and that's what we fight against. And I'm glad that here's the minister at last and said and confessed to the loan error, that's already one shift. So that's what I haven't heard from anyone here, maybe that's why he's not in HDZ, but he's impartial. None of you said he might have made a mistake with the loan, he said it himself, it's already an elemental shift and a positive thing. But since it happened, since it is not acceptable to me for the official, my position on the impeachment vote is not changing. And you today, unspeakably, all of you in HDZ repeat what Plenkovic said yesterday as you repeated what Karamarko said or what Sanader said yesterday or I don't know who else was Kosor, and I forgot to mention her last time and rebelled on Twitter, so Kosor, Sanader and some other president, I'll forget someone so she doesn't get angry. But Mesic knows exactly who he clapped on, so he'll remind me. Everyone. So here I am asking you to stick to principle and I am asking you to keep certain standards amongst the people who perform ministerial duties. So on the other hand, I know that Jasen Mesic would never take such a loan or ever work, for example, in this way interestingly connected to a single company. Let's adopt those standards for everyone. So that's the intensity of our impeachment, and I hope that tomorrow the MPs in this House accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38250	Replica was reported by representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38251	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Maras, it's just as fascinating to me that we're to blame for the crisis of the HDZ prime minister's power by bringing down his own government, rejecting coalition partners, and I've taken most of it myself for the second time in a year. I am now just afraid that HDZ is coming up with this initiative and suggestions that HDZ will not give a proposal to amend the Constitution that the term of office in the Croatian Parliament takes six months because it would be great then because it would be a legalized maneuver and not have to at least embarrass itself like this. Every six months of elections, we'll change the Constitution and no problem saving the cheeks of the HDZ. But what I wanted to ask you, Mr. Maras, is why do you think the government doesn't want to publish the HPB rule by which Minister Maric was credited? If they don't want it because they're hiding something or they still think Mr. Maric isn't in conflict of interest, then I don't know. It's just one thing in contradiction with each other, so here's what I'm curious about your opinion of what makes you think they're hiding it like a snake's feet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38252	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38253	Well, that could be done by the HPB, and the government could do that, too, because in this response the government gave, we saw that they were referring to that rulebook. It is written in the Regulation or in the reply that Article 17(2) appears to me. Regulations, which means the government owns that rulebook, and I guess why it's not being given out. Because you can't see what I said about marketing, how it's done, because you can't see who passed that rulebook, and when, when, if he brought maybe the board of directors or administration, it would mean a lot more clearly. But believe me, the same thing can be learned, and I'm convinced that at some point that that information will be available to the public to see if that bang is still valid because if it's also true for members of the Supervisory Board that I can get a loan, I think it's inadmissible. If a mistake has already been made at the time so that he doesn't stay and say now, I don't know if Secretary of State Tufekcic may be on the HPB Supervisory Board or anyone else, so that he can come into a position to make the loan. It's wrong. Let's change that if it's still in effect and not that some future government then it has to answer as Mr. Bacic said, he says, then the citizens about 33 years old could have been about the same, about the same, about the same, not now, you see how much about 2%, it could be 1, but about. You can see exactly how sniperically with a scalpel of the government's response, about the same. And that, and someone signs under it, so you can't believe it. Now you think what the poet was going to say there, is that 2%, 3, 7, but about the same thing. Thank you very much. Time, is yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38254	Representative Miroslav Tudjman reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38255	Mr. President. Comrade Maras, you spoke here of principledity, so it should be warned that there is still some progress and shift in your argument. We heard all day before noon or afternoon that one of the main reasons why Minister Maric must go is because he is in conflict of interest. that is, the potential conflict of interest because yet this commission has not even gotten on the agenda whether it has to go. But now it's a shift because we listen that he's actually in conflict of interest because he didn't take responsibility and he didn't stand up for what he should do, which is what you should do then. Therefore, he is guilty whether or not he was in a conflict of interest, whether or not he was exempt from these decisions. On the other hand, you are sniperically describing that he, that he has these loans as you said incorrectly, etc., because in the media it was published, you know as well as everyone else knows that according to the existing rule, nothing has been granted that credit but now you're justifying yourself for some future time. It's supposed to change that rule so others don't get into that gable. So what's said before, he's honest, he's good, but he's guilty because you say he's guilty. Gentlemen, that's not how politics is run, that's how you can score some day points, but that's just crazy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38256	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38257	I didn't say he didn't get the benefit because he made it happen. So that's what we all know and that's what Mr. Maric confirmed himself. And he said today that he probably wouldn't go into such an arrangement from this position he's in today. I just said that it wouldn't happen again that the secretary of state is someone else now or the minister who's on the board of directors, although the minister can't be, and now the secretary of state can't, because by law it's changed, but anyone on behalf of the state who's set up there that the supervisor can't get that kind of credit. That's what I said. And how many people believe the SDP argument and how many HDZ can you hear on the road every day, you can look at the polls. So it's twice as many, there's twice as many people who have pleaded for the need for the minister not to be a minister anymore than those who thought he should stay. So then we're, then if all this is how you say it, Mr. Tudjman, then we're incredibly good at argument. So when I and a few other MPs in the SDP managed to convince all these people about some things that are as amazing and untrue as you think. I still think the truth is a little different, that people see, feel and have some idea and that it's not just about, but just people get a certain picture. And on that side, I'm not afraid at all that people believe in this situation much more to the SDP and the opposition than to the ruling foreigners, although that's where you helped us from the HDZ that for years, but indeed for years you've created these situations contaminated by the conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38259	Dear President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club about the current events in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38260	I've been setting a half-hour break. Thank you. [[A.M.P.R. 00,02 HOURS]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 12:30 A.M.]] Stanko was asked by a representative of the Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38262	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues means I called for a break because of a request from the MOST Club for the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament. So we realized I think today everyone during this debate that there is no parliamentary majority. That's pretty obvious now. The MPs also said those who have not been through these few days will vote against Minister Maric tomorrow, meaning they will vote for his impeachment. And it is quite clear that there is no parliamentary majority, that the prime minister, as I said on several occasions, destabilized the state, gave up the parliamentary majority, 15 hands of the MOST's deputies, threw the Most Ministers out of the government. In addition, we saw last night that Esih and Glasovic's representatives will not support the formation of some new parliamentary majority. Representative Skibola today said he would vote against Minister Maric, MP Lovrinovic, and here is what counterpart Misic confirmed during his debate. So here is MP Lackovic, who has now entered, said he will also vote against Minister Maric, and it is obvious that there is no parliamentary majority to end this agony, in order to end the gambling in the Croatian Parliament, to try to put together some new majority. The most honest thing would be to disband the Parliament and go to new elections when the Prime Minister and here are all of us in the Parliament, but also to bring the whole country into this situation. What's important is to point out that we're willing to withdraw that request if tomorrow's Parliament shows that there's some sort of congregation majority. So, of course, if then a new president of the Parliament were elected, we would be proposed new ministers. But the way things are now, it's gone. And if, tomorrow, Minister Maric does not receive support from representatives in the Croatian Parliament, it is obvious that these parliamentary majority are not there and that it would be most fair for Prime Minister Plenkovic to resign, and that we are going here to disband the Croatian Parliament. We'll see if we'll even go with that initiative, if it comes to the creation of a parliamentary majority, or if we even direct it to whether it gets enough support. We all know that there were plans for certain clubs such as HNS and IDS to maybe come into that story after the local elections. Tomorrow it will show up if there is a vote on this initiative who are the representatives who may be counting on them to be part of the parliamentary majority in this possible exaggeration. So here's what I wanted to tell you in that sense about what you got on your benches, and tomorrow we'll see what happens next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38263	We're continuing the debate. For individual participation in the debate, MP Jovanovic has signed up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38264	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's to this early morning class, I'm not gonna use all my scheduled time. What I want to say and point out once again is that with his request to recall the SDP Minister of Finance in no way wanted to cause the government's crisis, he did not want to compromise Croatia's stability, but wanted to point out once again to what extent it is important to prevent a conflict of interest among Croatian officials. We believe that this is our duty, because the only zero tolerance to conflict of interest can restore confidence in politics, faith in politicians and ensure that the citizens of Croatia finally have more faith in Parliament, that they go to elections in a higher percentage and that ultimately we all ensure a greater quality of life for all Croatian citizens. I was in this assembly, and in 1990, all the two of us in this meeting are colleagues of Opara and myself, although I wonder if today 27 years later Croatia is a better society, a more open society, a society of equal chances for all or more, closer to Orwell's version of which we are all equal, only some equal to Todorovic, for example, 200 rich families chosen in the 1990s, I can say that, by all means, Andrej Plenkovic that his government is not a zero tolerance to conflict of interest and corruption, that his ultimate defense of the plagiar of Barisic, and now also Minister of Finance Marić as well as Deputy Prime Minister Dalic, shows that when it comes to conflict of interest, we returned to the 1990s. Unfortunately, it is not good and it does not guarantee that Croatia will side by side of EU countries. The proof is that thanks to the government of Zoran Milanovic for the first time in Croatia's history in 2016, we left the world of corrupt countries now after a failed experiment with Oreshkovic, Karamark, and now this second failed HDZ and MOST experiment again in a circle of corrupt countries, which means that the capital that should come to Croatia will come much less than it would come to us that we are more successful in preventing conflicts of interest and corruption. Therefore, let us conclude and say loudly, if someone is watching more of this debate, so the SDP has not led to the government crisis, the SDP has not led to the danger of early parliamentary elections, it has done so to boast the prime minister who is almost practically a practical disgrace to a public counterpart from the Most coalition partner, which certainly does not show the democracy and width of a European prime minister as Mr Plenkovic would like to be. Similarly, Zdravko Maric is certainly the man responsible, but the mantra he took over from Kalmeta, for example. who knew nothing about the painting of the tunnel or from members of the HDZ presidency who saw nothing in the Fami Media affair, heard nothing, knew nothing, so Mr Maric defends himself now for everything that is related to Agrokor that he knew nothing, saw nothing, heard nothing or heard nothing. However, Mr. Maric is responsible for Croatia's fiscal system, if he did not know that there was a risk in Agrokor of the hairing of financial reports, which is certainly a crime, he thus questioned the stability of our country's financial and economic system. I think it is clear today that there is an obvious, not to say the secret link between Zdravko Maric and Agrokor and HDZ, because I will remind everyone, Zdravko Maric was also Karamark's candidate for office. This link is unfortunately much stronger than national interests, and I think it is from HDZ itself. So, I ask another question, how is it possible that as Agrokor's CEO, and today he says he has signed only two papers throughout his term, none of which were related to the job, so he was then working as the CEO for the strategy and the capital market and he didn't know the real situation of Agrokor's balance sheets that served as the basis for the borrowing of the concert? The very fact that, prior to his arrival in the government, he was the Executive Director for Strategies and the Capital Market in Agrokor means that Maric, in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, would have to exclude himself from a whole series of procedures and decisions relating to the concert, and this raises questions in order to carry out his role as Finance Minister. Although all you should do is ask is did he do it when he was brought to the government by Lex Agrokor or appointed a government commissioner in Agrokor? Not that I know of. Furthermore, what certainly does not go in favour of the impact of Zdravko Maric, which is that as a finance minister from the beginning of this year, in several instances he has knowingly or unconsciously deceived the Croatian public, noting that Agrokor is a solid and stable company that will certainly not fail, among other things I quote, he said "how he follows the situation in Agrokor and how he believes there is no risk of their obligations in due time", and we know what happened shortly after such optimistic statements. In addition, Zdravko Maric, as finance minister, made decisions knowingly, we also have a list of everyone in our material that we have provided regarding our request where he has affected Agrokor as a system and delayed the application of regulations that may have been applied in time could ease the disaster in which Agrokor was found and many of its suppliers. We all know that unless Agrokor provides around 500m euros in new loans by the end of May, he threatens bankruptcy. What's that gonna mean? I'd better not talk. We've already heard the part about the loan he received as chairman of the HPB Supervisory Board, we would no longer talk about it since Mr. Maric himself correctly said that it might have been a mistake. Therefore, I could continue to list, but I think this is enough to explain our intention, so our goal was to show that in Croatia politicians, officials must not be in conflict of interest and that zero tolerance to conflict of interest is the only way that faith in politics, trust in politicians in Croatia is at a higher level and that we are all fighting together for a higher quality of life in Croatia and that we are all fighting for a greater quality of life in Croatia. The higher quality of life in Croatia means, above all, freedom of the citizens of Croatia, and the only real idea of freedom is freedom from fear. Fear will be smaller with more knowledge, with less corruption. There will be more knowledge if there is no plagiarist minister in the government, and less corruption and conflict of interest will be if the government's ministers, vice-presidents as well as all officials are not in conflict of interest. This was our goal and we are confident that thanks to this goal, we will ensure that there will be fewer conflicts of interest in Croatia in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38265	Representative Željko Lackovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38266	Thank you. I have three questions for you about your topic. So the first question is, were you talking about freedoms, do your SDP MPs have the freedom not to come to the vote tomorrow? Under number two, do you know how many MPs in the current assembly of Parliament come from the entrepreneurial world, so people who have employees and pay others? And third, is MOST acceptable to you for the composition of the new government if there is a new election? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38267	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38268	So I'm not on trial, I'm not in court and I don't feel at all the need to answer questions like this by my colleague Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38269	Representative Bojan Glavasevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38270	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Jovanovic, unlike my colleague Lackovic, I would like to talk very much about what you are talking about. First of all, I agree with you completely that conflict of interest is one of the central topics of what we have been discussing for hours. And I'm terribly glad and I'd like to thank you in some way for opening up other spheres in which conflict of interest has actually been happening in recent months. The Minister of plagiarism, the issue of corruption and conflict of interest at universities is something that we haven't talked about here now, but we talked about other occasions, but I agree with you completely that in some ways they're indivisible, they're inseparable as the subject of what's going on here today. Even though in this format and in this place today, it's definitely not appropriate and we can't explore it through discussion and determine it, I think it was worth it and it was important that you mentioned it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38271	Representative Branimir Bunjac reported for individual participation in the debate. As he was gone, MP Zeljko Lackovic reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38272	Thank you, Mr. President. So regarding today's topic, which is primarily a matter of trusting or not trusting Minister Maric, I want to explain my position on how I will act and what has led me and what my interests have led me to the debate that depends on how I vote tomorrow. So when I vote on the Agrokor Act, I will call it lex Agrokor, I did not support it, and I have put two remarks on that law, saying that they are not protected suppliers, which was sort of corrected, but it is not important but the fact that Mr. Todorovic's property remains free and that for this reason, Lex Agrokor can be called lex Todorovic. In order to avoid this, I have proposed to freeze or restrict the trading of shares in business shares because we can speculatively save some speculative capital that would come into possession of business shares without even being aware of it because these business shares are committed to some credit. Among other things, I also said if such a law is passed without these provisions that Minister Maric will come into an unpleasant situation because he will then be in a potential conflict of interest as an ex-employee and as well as the fact that the property remains Mr. Todorovic regardless of his right to manage. Afterwards, I asked this same question at an extended club of rulings, and I suggested that a solution be found to add to the law these provisions which were not criminally legal in nature but would be civil law where, in the jurisdiction of commercial courts, it could be limited to say that, without a decision or consent of the government's commissioner, transactions of more than 1% of all shares issued per day, i.e. that the majority owner cannot freely dispose of and that restrictions on taking over business shares on the name of loans taken. After that, at a meeting, I also reiterated this proposal to the government, and I asked the government's adviser for a written proposal, and today I talked to him, and I asked him if it was possible to obtain a guarantee that such a provision would be introduced inside, because I considered it important that I voted in what way I would vote on the confidence of Minister Maric. And then this morning I experience a surprise, in the morning I get messages that Mr. Grmoya calls me out that I'm not in the Parliament, that he won't give me support, and I took it as collegiately as a joke. I came to him first because I was stuck in traffic, then after that Mr. Grumoja threatens or blackmails me, I guess it's a habit he gained from his relationship with HDZ and says if Lackovic won't be able to replace Maric then we won't support him. So, Mr. Grmoya, you don't matter to me at all in my county, in my county in all three cities we have independent lists that have nothing to do with the Most. We have independent lists in 15 municipalities, Virje, Novigrad Podravski, Novi Vir, Podravski Sesvetima, Kalinovac, Molva, Ferdinandovac, Drnja, Petrian, Sveta Ivan Žabno. Independent lists in the second constituency are in Vrbovac, Chazmi, Grubišni Polje, Bjelovar. So you're not important to the outcome of the election that will be held and this step when you first mentioned me even though we've known each other since 2013 you've never had a single word about me, you've talked about independent lists, about the mayors, about the mayors. In the first round, I received 60% of my fellow citizens' trust, and you knew very well about me, but you were very well and in the broad port you were bypassing my name. Then about a week ago, I got a warning from you close to the business person who told me to watch out will have bad results in the local elections and will try to get you inside so you wouldn't accidentally jump out in this local election. And I'm going to tell you your rating in Koprivnica-Crysing County is 3% and my 30%. So you can direct your 3% to either HDZ or SDP. HDZ in the name of cooperation so far because you planted pumpkins with them and I didn't plant pumpkins or eat or smell with you. You can also reroute it freely to colleagues from the SDP. You wanted to limit me and destroy my integrity. So I'm going to tell you, I'm here on a duty that I'm acting on, a replacement duty for Mr Bandic, who has an incompatible duty, and I have this original right, given that I've acquired it with preferential votes. But imagine, Mr. Bandic never asked me to, nor suggested how to vote. And you found it appropriate to tell me something about it. You came here from a teacher's salary, you have three times as many receipts as I do. You have a problem with Mr. Minister's car, because you say he's driving to Audi 6. I've had monthly incomes of 50,000 kunas. I'm here on a smaller salary. I haven't taken one lip of travel expenses in 40 months, phones, wages, fees, anything in my town. And where do you get the right to now use this situation to interfere with local elections, and this is a story prepared for local elections to me in Koprivnica-Kryzevci County you'll tell me who will vote for me, who won't. When I'm done with my political activity, I'm going to my law firm and I'm going to make normal receipts there. But since you have no idea what entrepreneurship means, you have insisted, among other things, that the deadline will be reduced in which the compensation will be received after the end of the duty, that it will be three months or I don't know how much you put in, and I can't work for 12 months. And let's just say, about the height of your monthly salary, I've singled out the monthly state in the last nine years, and I've singled out three million kunas. Now that you've allowed yourself, that's why I'm going to wait for this decision that I asked to freeze and I won't vote for the Minister's impeachment, and I'm going to answer you every attempt to violate your integrity. I think you've shown the right face and I think you could have mentioned me a long time ago in a positive context that you wanted, and now this is a real opportunity where we're going to break our mutual accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38273	Representative Glavasevic said there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38274	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 232 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, so subject also 238. But I think I'd say under some other circumstances I wouldn't be doing this, but look, it's too late. We're here for a concrete reason. Deputy Prime Minister sits there, Minister Maric, Minister Žalac. So we're all here for a reason. I think it's clear from the perspective of many times the use of the word "upliftment" in the context of this House of Commons at least we should ask our colleague Lackovic to let us talk to his colleagues or anyone else, and that was the majority of his exposure left outside the door of this assembly, and let us talk about Minister Maric, because he's why we're here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38275	I agree with you. And in some normal atmosphere, you'd insist on it, I guess by now you know the way I've run the sessions, how strict I've been about it. But since everyone has been given a much greater freedom today for reasons like this and the subject, and then let's make it a little more clear context, then it wouldn't be right for Mr. Lackovic to take away the freedom I gave to others. Well, that's why I let it go. The replica was reported by a representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38276	Dear colleague Lackovic, I did not threaten you at all, I did not say how you would vote. I only said if you bowed down, so to HDZ, if you're with Minister Maric that we as the Most won't be able to support you. I didn't threaten you with anything. I knew what your decision would be. And that story of yours that you're autonomous, that's where you change Milan Bandic. Milan Bandic called from the hospital, said Zeljko you must vote like that and so, you must support Minister Maric and I respect that. But then that's what you have to say, and what kind of result you're going to achieve about it, of course, I'm not going to decide. It will be decided by the voters there and they will approve, so what kind of mayor you are, what moves you are making, how you behave in the Croatian Parliament, what decision you made. Now I didn't threaten you at all. I knew what was going to happen and that's why I said what I said here from the pay phone. I didn't threaten you at all. I said only we can't support it, and the citizens there will decide how they will approve your behaviour a special explanation why you will vote for Minister Maric because Grumoja has threatened you. I didn't threaten you! So, don't get used to it now. Say you called me Milan from the hospital and I had to vote like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38277	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38278	I don't know who's calling you, but Milan isn't calling me. I don't even have his phone number. All those who like to be close to the government, and you belong, would be very close to Milan. I don't have any contracts, not my company, either with Holding or any related companies. I had coffee with Mr. Bandic twice in six months, although I could go to him anytime. So don't implicate as you've been implying all day. Be honest. And if you have parted with those with whom you planted pumpkins, do not transfer responsibility to others and especially not in a situation where you have constructively participated in the adoption of the Agrokor Act, you have appointed two or three times the same minister and now you would like to impute me as I should vote. I've got my head and I'm thinking with my head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38279	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38280	Thank you very much. I didn't get it right now, so you decide to support Maric because he called you "Grmoya" in public. And that's why you decided to support Maric. Look, Zeljko, this is one of the stupidest excuses for changing the opinion I've ever heard. That's all I'm gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38281	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38282	So, among other things, I've asked your colleague's Gordans if you're going to work some kind of new agreement with the Most, I can see that you're in good relations, but any threat or blackmail to me is going to give birth to this exact opposite. I've had a constructive discussion unlike you who look here at this situation an opportunity to bring down someone. I asked it to be completed, I asked for an extended set of clubs, on a tight club, I wrote in the government what I was looking for. I ask that Mr. Todorovic's property, or his ownership, be shared frozen during the application of this legal provision, and I will continue to ask for it. And these interests of yours, whether you throw someone out of the SDP or not if he comes tomorrow or not, that's your concern. You let my concerns and my votes go, take care of yourself and your members.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38283	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38284	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm glad the order came to me so quickly, I can see that many have given up so let's cut to the chase. The essence of all financial problems in our country is essentially described in the book "I want a country plus 5%" by Australian Larry Hanningan, who wrote in 1971. In it, he explained that only in a credit system where money is created only as a debt, the debt can never be recovered because the money for interest payments does not come parallel to the creation of debt. In fact, the moment the debt or credit is issued, only the principal of the loan is created, not the money for the payment of the interest. Such a way of functioning of the financial system has led not only Agrokor to the abyss but also to the state itself and many other business entities. If you look at the amount of credit Agrokor consumed, how much does the state and state-owned enterprises consume, you'll see that the huge share of all the loans is essentially non-refundable. Minister Maric had a historic opportunity to be the minister who would challenge the financial system. He could have said that the way our financial system works in which the state does not create its own money in which the CNB is nothing more than a currency exchange that this financial system is not good, fair and fair for the vast majority of citizens. But he didn't do it. In other words, Zdravko Maric, in his role as finance minister, did not represent the interests of 99% but of 1% in society. If by any chance Zdravko Maric had represented the interest of the majority, and not the wishes I would support him today, I would say Mr. Maric fought hyenas, you pointed to problems, you tried to solve them, they didn't give you, but you, Mr. Maric, do not leave your chair tomorrow because you were a hero who fought for 99%. No, you're leaving because you were part of this interest group, a elite also led by your colleague sitting next to you by Mrs. Martina Dalic, who said she was continuing where Schuker stopped. So the policy Shuker started with, Daliæ continued in the end you continue with her. In addition, Mr. Maric for me, your introduction of real estate taxes as one attack, an attack and a severe attack on the middle layer of citizens, is enough reason for me to resign. So you're not in a conflict of interest, the fact that you asked for a real estate tax for me is enough for your shift. So your policy ruled you, Mr. Maric. As for your argument, you claim that you are not to blame, that you were set up, and so did Tim Oreskovic. And how did he end up? He defends himself here, argues with everyone, polemizes with the entire Parliament, and what's left of it, nothing. What you don't understand is the following, in democracy the elected representatives of the citizens act and you don't have their support anymore. So all of your stories are one eye rub and we're kind of sitting here in these benches your employers. When Master Ivica Todorovic tells you you no longer have my trust, you get fired, you say ok. Goodbye, I'm going. However, instead of you here when we tell you you got fired as Donald Trump would say... /The speaker speaks English./...you instead of saying ok. I'm looking for a new job, you're arguing here and you're arguing with us, let's see, here's the last one in the morning, and how long are you here with us intending to pollute, until when? By four o'clock in the morning, we will argue with you, and it is clear that most are against you. Now, we're going back to the question of not paying off the loan. This financial system that you support has ultimately led to the collapse of not only the state finances and Agrokorov but also your shift. If the financial system in our country were normal, if the state were doing primary money emissions, if the interest were lower, if the course were real, Agrokor probably wouldn't have collapsed, then it wouldn't have been such an affair and chaos without having an affair and chaos today, or tomorrow your resignation. What do I mean by that? By protecting the credit system, or the manipulator at the top of the power pyramid, which has power over money, you thought you were protecting yourself and your interests. But what happened? You were actually protecting him with all the attention, that is, all the dissatisfaction you took on yourself. You could tell people, the system is upside down, the loans can't be returned, they're invaluable. So it's all imagined, we're victims of organized fraud and robbery. And you could say that's why the state can't repay the loans, so Agrokor can't repay the loans, so citizens can't repay the loans, so 330,000 citizens are blocked, but no, you didn't say that, you said, no, no, the system is correct. Okay, if the system is correct, then there's an individual error. So you're saying, it's not the wrong system, so this isn't a systemic problem, this is a problem that some individuals have caused. So what individual could be more responsible for this problem than former CEO of Agrokor and finance minister in some government? For problems with the country's finances, you're a target. One, you're responsible no. 1. You're the only one who can be found guilty and that's why your head is flying tomorrow, Mr. Maric. You were protecting instead of speaking and warning. If I were you tomorrow and they were telling me Pernar it's your fault because the loans aren't coming back I'd say people's system is such that it's impossible. However, you instead of turning the blame on that system you have taken all the blame on yourself and you will be sacrificed. However, the question arises why would someone do so if they were you. Well, the answer is that every person who obeys the new world order, who obeys the massearies, who obeys the bankers, is protected from them in the long run. That's what Mrs. Martina Dalic did after she left the government to go to Washington to work for the World Bank. Oh, yes, that's how you, Mr. Maric, will be rewarded for the work you've been doing. Not by me, not by the citizens, the citizens would not vote for you to run for the elections, but you will be rewarded for your work on those whose responsibility for the situation you are hiding. And your stories about you finding out from the media about the situation in Agrokor, that you didn't know anything about it, that you had blindly believed that you had heard of these regressive bonds for the first time now I don't know about it two weeks ago. Well, Mr. Maric, or I don't know for a month, no one believes you, so the Croatian public doesn't believe you. You can say that you had no idea, but if what you're saying is true, then you were an unprofessional person and incompetent and unable to lead. So you claim to have been middle management, so you haven't, and you haven't been able to do that well, so how are you going to be Minister of Finance? At the end of the day, Mr. Maric, you will be forgotten. If you fall in love with someone good for you, if not, bad for you. But I suppose they'll arrest you for one simple reason because you know too much, you know too much, Mr. Maric. You've had a chance to speak here all day, expose the conspiracy, explain that loans cannot be returned, that the sovereign debt is growing vertically up that no one can stop it in the current system, but instead you chose to actually shut up and defend yourself and you can't defend yourself. Think about everything I've told you because Thank you. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38285	Thank you. Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38286	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pernar, I only have a note on one part of your exposure. Namely, when do you wonder how long, by when we will all be here and until when Minister Maric and his colleagues and colleagues will be here. I'd actually be bold enough to say how long it takes. I mean, until when. The people of Croatia, our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, have chosen us to be here by the time we need to be here and to keep an eye on their interests. If there is any doubt that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not represent their interests adequately, we must be here until when it is necessary and ensure that they are here until when it is necessary to defend their interests. It's just my remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38287	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38288	Mr. Glavasevic, you know there's one Mason in Croatia named Marjan Hanžekovic, he's mutilating the whole country's performance. He made a fortune out of it, and he often boasted that he had invented this executive system in which public notebooks rather than courts carry out their duties. Mr. Zdravko Maric did not move his finger to change it, which will say he put himself in the service of the Masonery. By choosing to serve the massa, or masseuse, secret societies rather than the Croatian people, he does not have my support. In this House, I was chosen by the Croatian people, not the masseary, not the corporations, not the media owners. On the contrary, they would do everything they could to keep me from being here and not saying this. However, Mr. Maric's time is going well, and Ivan Pernar's time is still coming. I hope there will be more people like me in the next session of the Parliament and less like Mr. Maric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38289	Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of mine, actually complementing what you said. You said in a way we're the employers of colleague Maric. We didn't. The Croatian people are his employer. And the Croatian people are presented through us. The moment my colleague Maric doesn't trust this House he doesn't have the trust of the Croatian Parliament. And that's exactly what we've been saying all day. And I hope my colleague Maric doesn't take it personally because I don't want to enter his personal integrity. I believe he's a professional person, a doctor of science, etc. But it's not about expertise. It's about trust. It's not about trust. It's not about trust. One minute he was enjoying himself, now he's gone. I don't know if that trust has a whole government. We'll see about that. But the key thing is that at this point the Croatian people presented through us do not give confidence to this minister, does not give confidence to this government to continue to run the state. That's the key, and you don't have to run from it. It's a fact and it's actually a measure of all these discussions. If counterpart Maric does not have the support of the Croatian people, he cannot continue to act on this honorable and responsible duty regardless of his personal qualifications and personal integrity. It's politics, it's like my colleagues said before, something we all have to agree to the moment we get caught up in this business. At some point you may not have it, but then we need to be strong enough to ourselves first and say ok. If I don't have the support, if I don't trust you, then I can't even do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38291	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38292	Well, Mr. Hajdukovic, any person with any scruples would see that those who chose him in some place no longer have confidence in him I would thank him and say goodbye. I've been fired a few times in my life. I'd say okay. I don't have your trust, goodbye! I wish you every good thing. However, Mr. Maric does not behave in this gentlemen's way, but argues and defends with us here. And what's he defending himself from? Defend yourself from the truth. He tries to impose false thesis, that he did everything he could in the interest of Croatian citizens. So I ask him what he's done for removing the currency clause on loans, for loans to be in the currency where the salaries are? Nothing. What did he do to change the executive system in which to pay you 700 kuna in debt? Nothing. What did he do to solve the problem of illegal RBA cooperatives from Austria? Nothing. We've got a raid on Rab scheduled today I've been doing an event on a live wall Facebook, it's going to be this month. I could count it that way until the day of judgment. What did he do? Nothing. You know what he's an expert for? He's a credit-lifting expert, and he's also an expert at guessing masseuses. That's his expertise, that's his qualification. I don't need such experts and I say goodbye right now, good by, I won't have to deal with you. I'm not gonna deal with people like that. He can talk there to talk until the day of judgment I'd vote against him. I don't care about his arguments. But he sees that none of us are interested in his arguments. He's still barging himself and trying to convince us. He's fighting a battle that's been lost in advance for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38293	Representative Bojan Glavasevic has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38294	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister with an associate here is really late, we've been here all day, and in fact relatively in these last discussions, I think we may have gotten a little bit off the subject. I'd still like to get us back on the subject. In our motion for your impeachment, three are basic arguments. It's the first one we've talked about today, and it's about conflict of interest. The second is related to your role while you were in Agrokor, or how much insight you had into the financial reports of Agrokor and whether you were able to learn at that time or later that these reports were possibly cut off as there are numerous allegations today. As for the conflict of interest, I think we've really talked a lot about this today. We even quoted parts of the law and I don't think it doesn't matter, I don't think it's important to say that the Croatian Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest is one more time I'm going to do it, I've said it before, I've said it really very comprehensively, it gives one very broad definition and officials, or all the people he really has his hands on. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest says that a person may be, or an official may be, in conflict of interest if something affects his ability to make decisions objectively, can influence or will find himself in a situation that may affect his or her decisions. So, as we have said many times today, you should have asked that, that the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest initiates a procedure that should determine whether in any way your situation is problematic in view of the legal provisions. You would thus get a solution that would clearly tell you, it would... Your situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what many officials do. In one of the replicas I think that's what we are, I've actually told you in part. But that would be one very big argument from this request, but you didn't do it. You were talking about the culture of exemption. Look, if you had black on white from the commission, so from the bodies that need to decide on it, the solution or opinion that you really solve wouldn't be on your shoulders to decide. And then MPs and MPs in this House wouldn't be able to question your decision in any way. So I think you made a mistake here. I think if it happens that after tomorrow you stay on duty as you're currently acting, it's still not too late for you to do so. I call upon you that if this happens, it may be you who will stand up to the committee because the commission is not a master of the horns. The decision-making committee of conflict of interest is not even intended to be someone who will pursue officials with a stick and write them penalties when they screw up. The decision-making committee on conflict of interest is here to help officials forget about their privacy and to take care of the public. So that's one topic that's in our request that we really think that if you've done anything wrong with your failure, let's say it that way. On the other hand, as far as the financial reports are concerned, I don't think it's important that you have told the media that you are well aware of the situation in Agrokor and that it is stable. And I personally read that statement of yours in a way that not only as a minister of finance but also as someone who spent a long time in that company, and you have come to know the very fact that you were in charge of using financial reports to sell Agrokor bonds to foreign investors, so you can say with a certain amount of authority. Yeah, it's a company that works well and pays to invest in. I tried to sort of put myself in your shoes in any of those two roles, and it seems to me that if I were to be in a position to sell anything to anyone, that person would try to knock me down, to get through those same papers that I have, and to look for places that aren't right there. I find it really hard to believe or let me not express myself negatively, I find it problematic that you were unable to see that there are problems. So far, you've shown in the debate that you're an educated man, that you're good at argumenting, that you know your matter, it's just hard for me to believe, and I'm not the only one, I believe that there are a lot of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, it's hard for me to believe that you couldn't recognize that there are some problems in these papers. After all, I think there are other things. Why didn't the Ministry of Finance reveal to the Croatian public today the details of the Agrokor tax debt? We didn't see that data, I think it would really mean a lot to the entire Croatian public if we saw that information because in the situation where you are currently in place, you must be aware that the fact that this data is publicly reflected badly on you and your case, and we have already said that this is about trust, not about proof, but about trust. It's a question of the impression that the prime minister was talking about today, after all. Mr. Minister, I have no matter what we have said in this debate, other reasons why, among other things, and when we voted in favour of you for the first time, when we voted on the budget that you did first, we voted for which I couldn't support you or your budget, you said today at one point, addressing someone on this side that you've earned everything you have today. I respect that, I really respect that from modest circumstances, you've achieved a lot, and the story of success doesn't need to be choked. It's some dream of any man in free society to have something you need and to be a smith of your own happiness, I really respect it. However, the budget that you have proposed strikes precisely on this, the ability of young people to achieve much by their efforts and work. You taxed student work, to this day you deny young people the opportunity to pay for their own study, to pay for their own knowledge. I think it is problematic for me as a Social Democrats that education in Croatia is not free of charge. But, well, that's our circumstances, that's our time, but at least help young people that if they work for their schooling, they can do it easier, so you don't tax them so much. I think the tax reform you've proposed had the effect of increasing that famous gap between the rich and the poor. That's 99% of what my colleague Pernar is talking about and what the social democracy ultimately cares about most. These are the ministers of the reasons why I cannot give you the trust tomorrow, I personally, my colleagues and colleagues have every reason and I hope that even if you pass this vote tomorrow if at the end of the day you have the trust of the Croatian Parliament that the things you heard in the debate today will still come to your heart, that they will leave a trail on you. I don't know, through this debate I say I've gotten a personal impression of you who is ultimately positive and I want to believe that the things you've heard today will be implemented in your future work. If you do not get the trust of the Croatian Parliament, then you must also leave here knowing why it happened. A man learns from mistakes. Today, you may again be in a position to act in office in the Government of the Republic of Croatia or in the Croatian Parliament, it would be good to have this duty if you come as a man who learned something from his mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38295	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38296	Thank you, Chairman. Well, there's a colleague named Glavasevic, and there are people in society who are stupid, and there are those who act stupid. I think our Minister Maric is too smart to be stupid to draw the conclusion that he's just being stupid. I don't know how else to explain his behavior throughout this session of the Parliament where he's been reasoned with his failures and where he's defending himself with some conspiracy theories in terms, but irrationally, not in terms of saying I don't know, the elite has decided to move me, etc., not that he says that we have representatives here now, we have something against him, and he doesn't realize that the entire Croatian public is against him. He can't understand that at all. He can't understand that if the people don't want him sitting there he has to leave that place. So today he's not just arguing with us, he's arguing with the entire Croatian people. And he assures us all that we're actually mistaken and he's smart. But I tell you this time, Mr. Maric, we're smarter than you and you're the ones flying from that place. You've been cheating on this people a lot. That's enough of that. And this grumbling of yours that you've been spending with real estate taxes, that's your story, it's your shot. And you're leaving that place and your tax advice we don't need. The caterers have no use for your tax reform, you've doubled their VAT. And that's why Mr. Glavasevic, I thank you for standing up against that agent and the exposition in the essence of the Masonery in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38297	Thank you. Replication response. ... Massacres or what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38298	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pernar, democracy is primarily procedure. You when, and understanding democracy and understanding of procedure is actually what makes us good politicians and politicians, you when you say, so most of what you said in your replica is what I respect. I think when you say that Mr. Maric here talks to the Croatian people, it is indirectly through us who have been elected to our election units, from our fellow citizens to represent them and that is true in that sense. However, we must be aware that it can be very easy for Mr Maric to also receive the trust of most MPs and MPs in this House tomorrow. And I think good politics and quality policy focuses on how to live with it, among other things. How and from such a situation do something that we can further work with, how we can justify the trust that the citizens have given us. Mine, therefore, as I see it and what I told Mr. Maric, that even if he survives this vote as minister, figuratively saying that I hope that the things he heard today will receive to his heart. And I think he's really heard a lot of good things from both sides of this assembly and the middle. Even from you, my colleague Pernar, as much as some might think that's not the case. Because when a man breaks behind a sometimes very complex and sometimes hard-to-expected argument, for example, there is an idealism and basically something that is in the interest of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38299	A representative of Mile Horvat applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38300	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, I welcome the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, present tonight at this session. My colleagues and colleagues will, it's too late and we're pretty much all already out of focus but I'm going to try to focus on two things about this topic. First, trust to Mr. Maric is usually said that if you want to get to the truth then you must be able to hear the other side. And now we've had a chance to hear a lot of things. And from what we hear today, tonight after these 15 or more hours of debate, I have not acquired any belief that there is a strong basis for showing confidence to Mr. Secretary. You didn't convince me all of you who had talked about it before, or by stating the facts about credit privileges, you didn't impress me too much with the story of meetings, the debates at HBOR, anything impressive. I wasn't particularly impressed by the story of Mr. Secretary's property and all that stuff. So what bothers me more is the ex-post mind with which you have now been going on about this topic lately because the fact is that you who have proposed a vote of no confidence to Minister Maric the same minister some time ago gave confidence, you have had the opportunity to discuss his work, his past work, his professional qualifications, professionalism in Agror etc.. The second time you trusted him with this government. You've had opportunities with the last budget that you voted to reopen the question to Mr. Maric and it's not possible that we didn't know everything we knew today six months ago. So the bottom line is what Mr. Pernar said and that he defends the man anyway I know what I know and I'm against him. And that's the essence of things. If it weren't for tonight, Mr. Maric would probably be in the confidence of Mrs. Dalic or any other minister. So the goal is to provoke the crisis and go to the election. If that's the case, you who want to be aware of that, what you're provoking. We as a party are ready for the elections, perhaps even more ready than everyone else, we may even be able to make those choices easier than all of you who want to, but we need to be sure that after these elections, we will have the same consolidation of political forces again, that we will have almost the same actors for these kinds of talks, for the assembly of the majority. And there's nothing important going to change except that we're going to spend a significant part of the budget for this election, which we're going to lose all this year, so the business year, we're going to spend the financial year in 2017 on this election. We may even be questioning the tourist season of which we have been living lately. We will probably bring in what Mr. Klaric said and the already prepared EU funds projects, so withdrawing, realising these funds. I heard from a colleague today, he said he was on his way to do a good job with a German firm here in Zagreb. When people heard about what we're doing here, they just said they'd wait a little while with all that work, with all those investments, and they went back to Germany. So in an environment like this, we can't expect to have some kind of big business interest in investment. Public debt will remain 80 per cent of GDP. And that's it. Nothing more important will change. And that's why we think that we need to preserve the stability of the government, and in that sense, we at the SDSS club are going to go public tomorrow if we need to make a statement. The second thing I want to say here and why I stayed here tonight is the fact that I have to say for the people who have devoted their whole lives to the combined White, which is privatized in the way that it's privatized. So far, that's never been a chance to say. Not only is Belje, that after 320 years of existence will be the victim of one of Agrokor's policies in some physical sense, the victim will be, the victim of such privatisations by Agrokor, the victim himself, because they are not allowed to participate in the privatisation, the purchase of shares to which they had legal right. It's been slow about this thing for four or five years. I'll give you a few details here. Thus, by selling and transferring shares, Belje bought from the Croatian Fund, two million 879 thousand regular shares, representing 52% of the share in the core capital of that target company. And on 7.3.2005, there was an obligation to publish offers for the takeover of civil society. It's the essence of things. So with some legal breakdowns, Agrokor's blocking the system avoided this obligation to publish an offer to assume the obligations of the target society because, later, by buying the two and a half million shares per kuna, it was supposed to invest 270 million kuna in the capital of Belje over two years. The capitalisations were carried out and on this basis they acquired some 2 million 700,000 shares, but now at the value of 100 kunas, no more than one kuna. With this act of avoiding public advertising, public calls for the purchase of shares they blocked workers in the rights to participate and the opportunities to participate in the capitalisation of Belje or to sell their shares per 100 kuna in other words. Agrokor avoided that obligation with various lawsuits even though HANFA had reached a solution where such an obligation had been prescribed and even Mr. Samodol had some problems for that reason and after all Mr. Samodol had been removed, and it turned out that in the end, the HANFA had not submitted the report on the conduct of the procedure. And that was the reason why Agrokor was not obliged to publicly advertise, put on a public offer to sell those shares. Thus, by avoiding this obligation, the workers of Belje who created the combination are definitely excluded from being able to participate in the privatisation of the combinations and in the recapitalisation of their shares. Why am I saying that? At the 4th session of the government of Zoran Milanovic, HANFA was placed under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance led by the then minister in front of the SDP and until then, HANFA was an independent regulator. After that, she was directly in charge of the ministry. Politics got involved in this whole case, not involving Minister Maric, who was at the time a manager in Agrokor, involved a high policy that led to such a situation in Agrokor, i.e. in Belje. That's what I'm trying to tell you. We can't burden a man with facts just because he was a manager in such a system. Large decisions such as this to block the possibility of workers participating in the purchase of the Belja shares were made by large players, she was doing a huge policy and the rope between large policy, certain people in the justice system and businesses could step up such large decisions, and people like professionals such as our current minister Maric who had the task of professionally fulfilling their management duties were fulfilling what the employer told them. For this reason, by comparing this problem with the privatisation of Belja, I have concluded that many of what is being put on the burden of Minister Maric is only a flat-rate assessment of the intention that was finally projected in advance to challenge the crisis, to challenge early elections, not to establish and establish the objective responsibility of Minister Maric for operations in the Agrokor system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38301	Representative Miro Bulj responded first to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38302	Agent Horvat, you speak well of the crisis, but you cannot tell the truth. The crisis led to the prime minister without the majority of Plenkovic. He said MOST's ministers, secretaries write... We don't need 15 people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the first to support this autocratic solution is Milorad Pupovac and your club, you've given support for the crisis, yes, you're aware, the crisis, he doesn't need these 15 people, you're enough yourself, enough is Pupovac and Plenkovic. It is a fact, the entire Croatian public knows. You were a soldier, imagine if your commander or anyone else pointed out that he couldn't participate in the main battle, and after the war he was a hero, here I am now leading again. Is that premise to you? Perhaps in your Croatia, Plenkovic, a dictatorial kind of thing, but the fact is that you're twisting the truth. The Prime Minister without most Plenkovic made this circus at what time it is now, two o'clock in the morning, where most of you are. Who made the crisis? So tell the truth to the people. So the ministers in particular don't have the right to have their own opinion on any of each other's colleagues. The fact is, you were a soldier you know what I said in the main battles without a general, if... the general pulls out that he can't go back in peace. After the war... ice Mr. Horvat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38303	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38304	Dear fellow Bull. I understand your mood, you were a position, now you're not, you had ministers in the government, now you don't have them. There's a little frustration on your part because of this situation there's everything. I was, uh, I was working at a big firm. I was the director where I had a college, and we made a deal, but the decision had to be unique. If we were a college, if we were a team and we were managing for the benefit of something, then we had to have unique decisions, but we could of course discuss it. So does the government. It doesn't make sense that a government on such a big deal as the trust of a fellow minister doesn't have a unique attitude, then something's wrong with that team, and it's only a matter of time before that team falls apart. If she hadn't broken up on the Minister Maric case, she'd probably have fallen apart on another case. Therefore, the time before us will show the time of the crisis and the assessment will be given by voters in the elections that are likely to happen very soon. But don't be surprised if voters say the prime minister with this move was right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38305	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38306	Thank you very much. Mr Horvat you said in your debate that these are not enough arguments for Minister Maric's impeachment. I'm curious now what arguments you'd need. So I remember the debate about Minister Barisic, then your plagiarism wasn't enough, today these arguments are not enough for you. I have a feeling that you'll never have any argument if the position is compromised and the authorities question enough. Here's my feeling today. When I heard Milorad Popovec talk about everything here just not about what we suggested, you didn't look back, except for what you said didn't seem like someone got a privileged loan that mattered. That's all you said, you didn't even comment on the rest. I have a feeling that it may suit you and the situation where you will be even more present than you have ever been for most, but Croatian citizens have nothing about it. By yesterday, those who were with you in the coalition, if I remember the past elections correctly, were complaining about what you had decided for Milanovic before you spoke to HDZ and then told you that minorities should not participate at all, if you remember well who would be in power or judge who would be in power. And now you're in this situation, that there are no eight minority votes, neither now most or eight minority votes, let alone without those eight votes. So these same people who told you this a year ago are now your partners exactly that way. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38307	Time's up, thanks. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38308	Mr. Maras, the arguments and arguments that have been made here for a long time have not been too convincing, you know that yourself. You've been spinning about two arguments, all of you, more or less interpreting it in various ways, but no one has said anything new except that loan, the watch, and I don't know what else. So these are not serious enough arguments to discuss the confidence of the Minister of Finance at a time like this and cause a crisis in the state at a time like this, these are not enough arguments. It's a flat-rate argument, political arguments, targeted arguments, and that's not good. And I don't know if we're aware of what we're getting into these two, three days. Are we so responsible for our citizens that tomorrow we say that, because of this kind of thing, we have caused new elections, early elections, we have caused a crisis, we have confused the people because the people are sick of choices and all of us who, in this way, are running politics without politics, without real politics. This isn't the visionary policy that we're all running here in the set for these two, three days. And the two of us know each other, we know each other from previous mandates, we know each other from previous collaborations, we know each other from previous mutual support agreements, mutually touching policies, and there's no need to go all the time with these arrows to us and to individuals from our club, the National Minority Club when you couldn't do without those eight national minorities a while ago. And then you didn't talk like this and you didn't give us these mean comments and mean arrows. .../Intruder Petrov: Time. And that's what's confusing me as a man who tries to be consistent in politics all this time. How is it possible that we're in this kind of rhetoric today and we're doing it different tomorrow?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38309	Time's up. Representative Horvath's time is up. Representative Bojan Glavasevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38310	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Horvat, thank you for your presentation. What I can say is that in fact, the real political situation is such that the positions that our colleagues and colleagues, including all of us, are tomorrow, are more or less defined in the vote than the arguments and the thesis that have been presented here today by both the Minister and the Prime Minister and the us who have proposed this. I'm not sure if there was a single person sitting here today who had this debate changed his mind, perhaps Mr. Lackovic, and that's also the question of whether his opinion was changed in the debate or elsewhere. On the side of it. What I'd like to tell you is that, just be aware that the departure of the minority MOST becomes the main partner of the biggest, largest HDZ partner in power. Keep that in mind. And the next time there's a debate about some of the things that minorities used to have room for maneuvers and in the future, the question of how many of them they'd have. This is not a threat, don't get me wrong, I just want to tell you, the situation and the one you're talking about right now may not be as simple as you wanted to show it and the arguments for the recall of Minister Marić were never and never came down to the hour and on, which in English would be the constant records, so on some of the situations arising from the context and arguments arising from the context, but just as the prime minister said about the metrics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38311	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38312	Dear fellow Glavasevic, I appreciate you and your debates, but it is not good for you that we should take care and be careful because now we are some significant majority. Why is it always a problem if minorities are the ones who need to make a final decision or decide something? Why does the thesis on the left and on the right and left and on the right constantly slip into our political space so that minorities should not be such an important factor and judge and decide certain things? Well, I guess with my 14,000 preferential votes, I'm just as valuable a representative as you are. Did I? So why would it be dangerous if 8 minorities were to decide what the government would look like? Why is it so dangerous and why is it constantly back on our noses for 20 years, whenever there's a crisis, then it's the minorities who need to take a special account that they don't put themselves where they don't belong or anything like that? We were in the same position with you four years ago. Even then, you needed us, and without us, you couldn't have had the right majority, so we were a desirable partner. No one has, so you haven't spoken to us with your finger, beware of what you do, for it is you who decide. We don't decide now, we don't decide, we decide someone else, we're just the ones who say that we will properly support some kind of policy that has been offered and acceptable in some way right now. And if we were correct partners always, the Club of National Minorities definitely, as I recall in all mandates, was the last one to deviate from what we agreed with you and with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38313	The final word on behalf of the club was requested by representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38314	Thank you, Your Honor. In a country where young people run headlong, regardless, in a country where 330 thousand citizens have blocked accounts, in a country where the operations are everyday, in a country that has an enormous sovereign debt that does not return, in a country where every year billions of new credits are raised for naked existence, in a country where even the biggest economic operators fail, Minister Maric would simply assume that he has courage and said people I am unable to change this situation, I consider myself responsible for him and I would resign, even if he had a majority on his side. But unfortunately, even in a situation where there is no majority and the situation is catastrophic, he is barteringly holding onto that chair he is sitting on. He thinks he will buy himself time with a long debate and does not realize that he tried the same until recently Prime Minister Oreskovic but also unsuccessfully. I would like to stress on this occasion that the executive law that is man-eating, which allows for a small debt to be taken big money by these perpetrators, that it is not normal, that it is not natural. It's illogical for you to take 600 kuna for a five-pound debt, to be executed for that amount, it's not normal. And you as a minister have done nothing to change that. And for that very reason, you will bear in essence and responsibility because the citizens do not care why you served the masseary, they are not interested in what reasons you went to Hanžekovic down the hair. At least according to him, I've heard right now in the halls of Parliament that he has a few months to live. Why does this man continue to serve faithfully? Why don't you serve as Minister of Finance to the Croatian people, Croatian citizens? You chose the wrong boss. Instead of being your boss of the Croatian people and Croatian citizens and Croatian representatives, who did you choose to be your boss? Whose interests do you represent here, Washington, Brussels, domestic or foreign massearies? Whose? Ask yourselves. Of course, you don't even wonder because in your consciousness in your state of mind it's normal to go down Hanžekovic's hair, it's normal for you. It's not normal for me. And that's because it's not normal for me to vote for your shift as well as my entire club of representatives. And you, there's a saying from Bob Marley you can fool some people for a while, but you can't fool Mr. Maric all the time. Your game, your charm, your performance has come to an end. Like it says game over – the game is over. I invite you to this occasion, you have the last chance here tonight, the last chance Mr. Maric to step out of this situation with honor. You have the opportunity to resign in your final speech and say I don't want to humiliate myself, I don't want to embarrass myself, I don't want to fight so hard if you don't want me in office, here I am resigning. You've got a little time, you've got half an hour left to do that. We call upon you to do so and thus end this agony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38315	MP Tomislav Panenic seeks the final word in front of the club of independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38316	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here is the support you have in these small hours and the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Dalic and the Minister of Regional Development, Ms Žalac, State Secretary Tufekčić, I think that there has been a lot of talk, but here, on behalf of the MOST Club, I would like to make a point and actually return it to the time and past government when we were together ministers in the Government of Prime Minister Oreskovic. And then you gained this public reputation because you enjoyed the confidence of Minister Oreshkovic. He allowed you to implement the policies that we all put together so that they could benefit. We know how difficult it was to bring in the first budget, there were really many restrictions in consumption, efforts to optimise all available resources. And we shared all that success together, we were colleagues. Then after what's coming? Here comes the destruction of Oreshkovic and your support. Not only did you tear it down, but you became Karamark's candidate for prime minister. I personally said that it was both human betrayal and political betrayal and it was something that really came from the people who were there and here that we talked to the prime minister about what was something we didn't expect at that moment, but for a time it was over. We are now coming to a new time, where these numerous accusations that are mentioned, that we should communicate as partners here in the Parliament, in the government that we were partners, are no longer. And how to explain to the people of the bond, how to explain the costs incurred by the amendments to the factoring law, how all together for years it became abundant about the functioning of small companies, partners, agricultural producers. How to explain that you were the CEO of the strategy and the capital market without being familiar with Agrokor's finances. And it's hard for me to imagine that you're going to negotiate with banking institutions, credit institutions with which you've successfully been here and we've also been witnesses, and we've talked as a minister and you can't give them a real state of mind in the Agrokora system. I don't think you'd be credible there, and as far as I know you and as a person, you've certainly come in there with all your knowledge and quality bargaining, and for that, you've had to be familiar with the entire system's finances. The statement that there are no occurrences suggesting an emergency state, after which 15 days of blockades are very difficult to understand. We understand that three hundred million kunas per month, but you realize 15 days in one public communication, it's a little too difficult for people to explain. Then loans in HBOR, a loss of possible 378 million kuna personal credit. The Badell case that I cited to me personally is a major obstacle, and I think it is direct support for your colleagues who you worked with in Agrokor and eventually Ivica Todorovic and one way to get the funds out of the system. And we see parallel societies that come into existence. I just don't know me or my colleagues or my colleagues how to stand behind it. Then we come in future time, now it's quiet before the storm restructuring of Agrokor goes. The Russians may have been here and the most real. They've already placed the reservations at 50 percent. So what are we going to say in a month when the restructuring programmes start, write down, agree. How to explain 50% is to write off, maybe the lowest supplier. As this will all come to pass, a reduction in the number of employees, activities. These are the problems we're going to have to deal with. But how do we deal with you in government, the government of the prime minister who doesn't make decisions at phone sessions, except when it's time to throw out the MOST ministers, when they're confused by what I'd say again that one human, political issue of the deal we had. Now I'm saying now we're going into a new buying game, kidnapping MPs with whom we'll be even harder to deal with. The MOST counsel club can't give you support. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38317	Representative Miro Bulj, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38318	Thank you very much. Representative Panenic, all you've listed is the taste of today's story, but we didn't get answers from Minister Maric, nor from the prime minister without most Plenkovic. We are talking here about very important things or what Croatia was led to at the moment as you said, it was deleted under the floor with people and with an agreement at the moment it started to take into account i.e. with what was supposed to be. And the time has come with the crime that caused us great damage and criminals who were already on their way to Remetinec. You also listed the bonds without cover and factoring and many other things, and here you have not mentioned and we have not yet received a response to tax reform, to the disproportionateness of property where it has been reduced to six years, and it was until 2005 that there should not even be any deadlines. What was acquired by the robbery was to be taken and returned to the people to whom it belonged, but we do not get that answer from Minister Maric or Plenkovic. It's been going around all the time, but here's what you said about the MOST's position, and I hope all the MPs will see who's responsible for this crisis. It is Prime Minister Plenkovic without a majority who is with 15 people in the Parliament who supported the government and three ministers, i.e. Four ministers simply said I have a majority. He created a crisis, he's the most agreed with the Brussels manners cannot fool the people, the moment of truth is coming, not so far away, and I hope the people will see who's in the situation...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38319	Sorry, time's up, I wasn't looking. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38320	Dear fellow Bull, I think we're really talking about human destiny here. Fate is also the minister who makes it and now the decision to stay in the government that will have an unstable short majority, which will be problematic where every future decision will be seen through the prism. On the other hand, it is difficult to find the environment. Therefore, even when we talk about people, we need to understand the position of the minister, we who know him better, and I tried to be honest, clear and convey not only what they are communicating with us in some way but also how we feel and think. So here we hope that in any form future this will continue to work,...the consequences that will be will probably have its own culprits, and we will remain in that we are looking for blame for everything that harms us in future time, not just for those of us who have to discuss, bring these suggestions, we will bother ourselves instead of making concrete laws, but for the people who case us. And of course all these things you've mentioned that are damaged with the adverse consequences of anyone's decision. Therefore, this night of thinking until tomorrow until the vote, we will have a decision on a man about us 15 MOST deputies in the new assembly of possible government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38321	Representative Maras has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38322	Thank you very much. Mr. Papanic, in your debate, you mentioned the aspect of future work both Agrokor and Minister, imagine only the situation that is very convenient given how certain banks have assessed and how much they will have to write off and how much they have booked and made estimates of how much reservation costs will be for their discounts in Agrokor. In any situation that will be linked through the prism of Agrokor, the government, debts of tax, write-offs, reprogrammes, anything, loans to HBOR, credit reprogramme in HBOR, Minister Maric will be constantly in a situation of conflict of interest and if there is no conflict of interest then he will have at least suspicion. So let's say these loans that were given before the new year, they'll probably come by now, I don't know what time it started, maybe half a year, I don't know how they defined it, but they'll get right on the reprogram because they won't be able to pay. And again Mr. Maric will be exempt and again Mr. Maric will have to explain what the management said, who called the session and I am very interested in what is funny, Mrs. Dalic. You laugh quite often, I won't find out, well, maybe I don't care enough to ask you twice, but since you laugh so sweetly, it's probably fun for you. And I'm glad if at least you're having fun in these late hours, so it's nice to see someone laughing so sweet. But Mr. Maric and Mrs. Dalic will meet Time, always the same. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38323	Thank you. I know you like to give a little longer class, but here's the time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38324	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras. I was also clear in my previous statements. The Minister of Finance's exemption is impossible. You can't make such a distance that you're not connected and you don't have to do it, regardless of all the trustees of conflict of interest, but these are things that are certainly more important. What you cited is future restructuring, write-offs that are passed on to all suppliers, small agricultural ones. Looking at my county where I come from, I'm sure many of the entities involved in agricultural production or suppliers will be damaged. But I'd come back, when we watched this process, when the key suppliers of Konzum started to show up, when they started to make noise, it was clear that something was wrong. When we first met this problem of regression debt by currency, do you know who they transferred the cost to? Right on those smallest suppliers of yours, producers. And to them, ten percent of how much they take away the factoring of their houses, they've passed on each of these expenses to them year after year in billion. And that's the responsibility, not only of those who are now at the Ministry of Finance but also of those who were before because your ministers and those who were earlier to determine that, such an event should not have happened because they paid our people. And if someone went to determine, believe me, that would be the biggest amount we've ever met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38325	A representative of Nikola Grmoy has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38326	Dear counterpart Panenic, you have brought forth a number of arguments here why Minister Maric can no longer be Minister of Finance. In the first row, and what we have all been repeating all along is impossible for the Minister of Finance to be exempt from all important decisions in such a difficult situation. But you also mentioned Badell, but you didn't explain here to the people who are looking at us and to us MPs because I may not have been there in the debate, I didn't hear that argument, so I'd like you to explain to me what it is about Badell and what the role of the finance minister is. And I would agree with my colleague Bula what we've been repeating all along, the answer we haven't received, what logic there is in the fact that the finance minister is shortening the deadlines for the disproportionate property checks and that we're practically losing an entire period of time in which we could fill the state budget based on research into this disproportionate property. So the key years have been lost, the years are lost, and these are exactly the years that Agrokor grew the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38327	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38328	Thank you for the opportunity to make an explanation. So there are two key moments around this model itself of Badell's pre-determined procedure. The first one occurred on 29 June and a day later when at the level of the creditors, actually those debts which, according to public institutions, are tax administrations, customs administration, were the same environmental fund, when the write-off was agreed on then it was determined that the amounts which, according to some 70 million kuna, are here I do not now have the exact information, at that level, the council that met, which the regulation defined they could give their proposal but must go to the Minister for Signature. This is precisely defined by that regulation, so up to 10 million kuna stands in the regulation itself, it is at Council level, then it is Minister. Our deputy minister, Sasa Drezgic, did not have the opportunity to sign it at the time, thus remaining in the prime minister's domain. Then we come at a second moment, which is when the pre-departure settlement was presented to accept, so tax administration, customs administration, these are the authorities in the power of the finance minister, they voted for the model, to write down 60%. And what's due to it being done, it's going to be done, it's not all over yet, it's not all over, it's the stock-shaping, the existing shareholders, and by entering this capital that I think is small, it's too small for Meteor d.o.o., not meteor groups, Meteoor d.o.o. become the majority owner of Badell, a company with one million kuna profits, 50 million kunas of traffic will rule the 700-year-old Badell, and here I may be wrong here right now, I don't have it in my head, but twice as much. And to me, it means not only to me, but also to former Prime Minister Oreshkovic it was a disproportionate that we couldn't swallow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38329	Thank you. The final word is the Proposer. Mr. Maras will speak for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38330	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues here are hoping that 30 minutes will be enough for me to narrow down everything we've said today and eventually draw certain conclusions and send a message. And I can say that as for a debate that was quite long for the first hand, so it was almost 17 hours of debate, it was quite substantial, there were a lot of arguments. And I'm glad we've been through this together. I'm not glad how the prime minister set himself up for the whole thing, showing that he doesn't have what he tried to show before now almost a year ago when he accused Karamark of not being one man hostage or that the government and the state and the party can't be the hostage of one man. It's only worth it to the moment when it's not about his man, but only to his man. And he stepped away very quickly from those principles he advocated at the time. I think that we are in the debate as well as as the promoters and most of the clubs that have talked about the topic have shown that simply Minister Maric is no longer from the political corner and I would say all of that, all the challenges that await him in front of him are no longer able to act that duty. It is not just us MPs who have proposed it and who will vote for it today, the Croatian public feels it too. Minister Maric himself said that he is a burden to the government and that he is very difficult to carry out the work he has done so far. What is certainly so, means no one in Croatia, no viewer, citizen, anyone who imagines five minutes around this situation can trust Minister Marić no matter what he has signed or not, that he was unaware of the situation in which Agrokor is located. The arguments we heard here from HDZ while Minister Maric was there that the rating agency and that the situation was much better than it was in the end simply doesn't stand, since the same discussions used the argument that the problem didn't arise from yesterday but arises during more governments, 3.4.5.6.6 of the government. So you can't use the argument you're using in one situation, which refutes the other argument used in the second sentence. So Minister Maric was certainly if not completely, but at least to a large extent aware of the situation in which Agrokor is located. Minister Maric was aware of the situation and of how Agrokor was financed through both loans and bonds and through regress bonds, which is particularly important for the factoring law and for what he tried to transfer responsibility to the Parliament who simply did not have that information that he had at the time, which is that Agrokor has three, four billion kunas in that way through the bonds secured funding. And why wouldn't factoring to society fit? So it wasn't about what conditions it was impossible to secure during a certain period, even when the government extended it in 2015 that it was necessary to give an additional nine months in 2016. It was only factoring to the societies benefiting and I would tell the whole situation about this funding not to be transparent enough for the problem not to be enlightened and seen before it was already too late when Agrokor came to the problem. And again, if he was the minister of someone else, so maybe he didn't have complete information, maybe someone in HANFA didn't warn him, although I'm going to tell you I hear stories from HANFA that it was the people of HANFA who asked to do it, but that the people of Agrokora were saying that they were going to jeopardize the business of Agrokor. Check out this information to Minister Maric. It means that the people of HANFA have also warned that they have been asked to have full supervision and in some way try to put that market under control with the fulfilment of the legal requirements, but others have asked that this is not done but to extend a certain period and thus that we do not have complete transparency on that market. And yet I say, that the minister is not aware that maybe some person who wasn't in touch with that business until a month ago but who became a minister or what the law came into the process, that someone else might argue that the minister can't exactly be accompanied by all the details of all the laws, although it should be. But come on, it could be seen as something that may not have been done properly. But when the minister comes from that sector, when he's in charge of funding the Agrokor then there's no trust in that situation. As for HBOR, I am once again interested here if anyone can answer, how does the president of the HBOR Supervisory Board handle the exemption from the case? So the board comes and says we have five credit requests, then what does the chairman of the Supervisory Board do? Does he convene a session, does he convene a session, adopt agendas, does he call for just that point a special session of funding for Agrokor? How did the contact of Minister Maric escape with the financing of these loans that were mentioned earlier? And why, for example, when Sberbank gives loans to be taken by the owner's personal debt, it can be done, but let's say in the case of these loans, that's not done. She read Minister Dalic here assesses the creditworthiness of certain companies, these were all companies that were perfect according to these estimates. Number one conclusion, or someone there really doesn't work and quality their business or has deceived the monitoring board for that data because it's amazing that these companies have come to a blockade in three months because of a variety of problems related to the operations of Agrokor, and that three months ago someone wrote that they are kindergartens that are easy to repay all commitments. And probably these loans haven't even started to come back yet because they've only been realised a few months ago. And I asked Minister Dalic, when the money was paid, which I am also interested in, if the loan was granted at 12 months, were all the funds withdrawn immediately? It's usually done in succession and there's some kind of dynamic. And I'm also curious about how those money was spent by Minister Dalic? Were they spent on that purpose they were supposed to be spent on or were they because companies were blocked maybe the money went to something else? So there's a lot of questions that we're going to be lighting up in the future, and we certainly won't give up on that. Be sure until the last answer we'll get, regardless of whether this government or some other or any new election, then in 3.4 months, another Parliament. So these are issues that interest Croatian citizens. And again I tell you in the beginning, you are again if the Government and as ministers are burdened with these problems that will only come before us and for which we will seek answers. As for the loan, I'm glad that the minister and I admitted that he shouldn't have done it, it's something I see positively and on his side in this debate, but it's still not enough for us to tell me that it's okay now and nothing. A simple man who enters that position should not be brought into such a situation at all, whether he is a secretary of state or a minister. And for the secretary of state, it's unacceptable behavior. I'm sorry that some MPs are minorizing here especially right now at the end of the end of my colleague Horvat from the SDSS, but I'm telling him I have the feeling that I don't know what would be enough for them to say right now that it's not okay and that they're voting for the impeachment of the minister. I think there's a very stretching border on them, and I'm sorry it's like that. So they saw themselves as the last defenders of the majority or stability and a way to remain this government, as if another government or after some other choice would not also be stable. But, well, everyone has their own argument, people follow it, then someone gets mad when you tell them to, and they call you, and that's how it goes. But at the end of the day, each of us will be given by the final court by Croatian voters and the way we behave is likely to value it. Finally, I regret that there is no stability and responsibility in Croatia at this time by Prime Minister Plenkovic to show the people he is counting on in the Croatian Parliament that this spectrum, trade, will last, that the tension will last for some time, that it will be calculated with a certain period of time which, as after the local elections, would allow for easier entry into certain coalitions. I don't think Croatian citizens deserve it, that Croatia doesn't deserve it and that ultimately the prime minister, the statesman who is responsible, would never allow it to happen to his country. And on that side, I think, even though I'm convinced that at 9.30 today you should get enough votes to call off, that basically this government is over, it's just a matter of time before that tenth. Whether it's going to happen in a month, two or today doesn't matter at all. So this government does not have the capacity to carry out its mandate until the end, not too close, and it would be good for Croatian citizens to have the opportunity to decide again and create a more stable coalition and a more stable government because eventually Croatian citizens will have the prospect, someone says the elections are expensive, but I am convinced that Croatian citizens will pay a much higher price and a higher price than it would be to discuss new parliamentary elections. Thank you very much for the debate, and I hope that you will support the vote by impeaching Minister Marić because we think that this is really the only possible thing at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38331	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 p.m. and vote on all the points discussed so far. Thank you. Session interrupted at 02.25 hours. The next item is the proposal to launch the trust issue to Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Proposers are 46 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists submitted a request for a name vote pursuant to Article 255 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 258 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall be held by means of a vote by standing up, saying for or against the proposal or abstention. When the call is completed, those representatives for whom the list of deputies has not been reported to have voted are called again. In accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for a decision to show mistrust to a member of the government require a half-dominated majority of all MPs of 76 votes. I am now voting on a decision to show no confidence in Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like the secretary of the session to call the MPs. Here you go. I would ask MPs and MPs not to disturb the order so that the secretary of the plenary session can read and that all MPs will hear the name and name of the parliamentary representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38333	Can we? Alekić Goran-za, Ambrusac Ljubica-za, Anušić Ivan-protiv, Babić Vedran-za, Bačić Branko-anti, Balić Marijana-prot, Barišić Drazen-protiv, Batinić Milorad-za, Baik Arsen-za, Bedeković Vesna-anti, Beljak Krešo-za, Bernardić Davor-za, Beus Rchembergh Goran-za, Bilek Vladimir-protiv, Boban Blaženko-protiv, Boreković Drazen-protiv, Brkić Milian-antit, Bulj Miro-za, Bunjac Branimir-za, Burić Majda-protiv, Culej Stevo-protiv, Čičak Mato-protiv, Čelic Ivan-protiv, Čelic Ivan-protiv, Ćelić Ivan-protiv,, Ćoić-protiv, Ćolic-protiv,, Ćlić-protiv, Ćlić-protiv, Ćlić-protiv, Ćoić-protiv, Ćoić-protiv,,,,,,, Detotović-Omić-Omić-Ot, Detrkotroš-Otroš-Otroš-Otroš-Otroš-Otroš-Omić-Otroš-Otroš-Otršt, Det, Demić, Demić, Demić-Ot, Detro-Otrić-Pt, Detok-Ptroš-O-O-P, Detr-P, Det, Det, Detr-Otr-Otrić-Ot, Det, Detr, Detr-Ztr, Detr, Detr, Detrt, Detrtrtr, Detrtotrtrtrtrtrtr, Detrtrtr, Detrtrtr , Lovrinović Ivan-za, Lucić Franjo-anti, Luc-polanc Marta-za, Lukačić Ljubica-anti, Ljubić Bozo-anti-za, Madjer Mladen-za, Makar Bozica-za, Maksimčuk Ljubica-anti, Maras Gordan-za, Mateljan Damir-za, Matić Predrag-za, Mesic Jasen-anti, Mikulić Andrija-protiv, Miletić Boris-za, Miličević Davor-protiv, Milić Darko-za, Milošević Boris-trat, Milošević Ivan Domagoj-prot, Milić Orsat-zat-za, Mišivkov Mrak-Taritak Anka-za, Mrsić Mirando-za, Ninčević-Lesandrić Ivan-za, Opačić Ivanka-za Ivanka-Za, Otović-Zaž-Za, Osović-Zak-Za, Mirko-Zaož-Zaož-Za, Mirko-Za, Mirko-Za, Mirkotovktovktović-K, Mirko-P-Prž-Prž-Pržov-Prt, Mirko-Prž-Prž-Prž-Prž-Prž-Pop-Pop-Pop-Prov-Pop-Proš-Pr, Ivan-Pop-Proš-Proš-Pop-P, Ivan-P-P-P, Ivan-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-P-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pop-Pr, Ivan-A-S-S-Pr, Mak-Pr-S-Pr, Ivan-A-Pr [[The speaker is not enabled.]] What? [[Intruder: Opera shut it down.]] Okay. [[Intruder: microphone for.]] And as far as I can see, there is only Glasnović Zeljko who has not voted or been present. He's gone now, I see. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-03-0.u38334	I ask the MPs to wait for the results of the vote. The esteemed parliamentary deputies and MPs voted for the decision to show no confidence by 150 MPs. There were 75 MPs against it and it was abstentioned, actually, Agent Glasnovic didn't vote, so I'm going to say it again, I'm sorry. 75 MPs voted in favour of the decision to show no confidence, without abstentions, with one parliamentary representative not voting. 75 was for, 75 against. I determine two things, first of all, that no decision has been made on distrusting Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. ... Thank you. [[Applause.]] And the other also that the parliamentary majority has not been established,... So I'd like to ask the esteemed MPs and the MPs, please determine, please, please, Mr. Jandrokovic, refrain from commenting until I have said everything. [[Applause.]] Please set a two-hour recess so you can consult within your clubs. Thank you. It's 12.06 p.m. Dear MPs and MPs, we will proceed with the session's work. I must conclude that it is nice to see you in this number Thursday morning, the entire Croatian public is proud of you. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and First, the proposal for a decision to disband the Croatian Parliament is a proposal for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Please engage to check the quorum. Mr. Bačić, here you are.
