ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47525	Good morning, everyone. As usual, I see the already raised hands, the first respected representative of Glasnović, that is, after that, the distinguished representative of Lovrinović on behalf of his club and then the distinguished representative of Šimić on behalf of the club of the independent lists. Anyone else long for...? Can we hear the theme?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47526	Well, these, the Croatian diaspora, are about today's topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47527	What topic today?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47528	Croatian diaspora.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47529	Well, it's not strictly the Rules of Procedure because it's usually not about topics, but good. Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47530	Dear Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club of 10 minutes to warn the public that there is still a mechanism of turning citizens into debt slaves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47531	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47532	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the MOST Club, I am looking for a break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47533	Okay, thank you. Anyone else want a break? On behalf of the HDZ, the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47535	Thank you. No one else, then thank you very much. I'll see you at 45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47537	Dear colleagues, Mr. Milas, Miss Perkusic, I welcome you all here and this, today is the annual report for the implementation of the strategy and the law report for the office annually, the Croatian office outside the country, and would say first to praise the work of the office because it is much better co-operation than it was before, day and night, and have really done a pretty good job with limited resources. But the situation on the ground, in fact, what is the situation on the ground when it comes to the Croatian diaspora? Here, according to some facts, the contribution of the Croatian diaspora is almost on the basis of foreign investment. We don't have a statistical framework yet, but we certainly have 16 billion kunas coming out here plus a billion euros which isn't recorded. It's a huge GDP cake here. We also forget it's between '68. and '72. 1.5 million people from Yugoslavia, most of them Croats, have now half a million of them in Germany who are almost isolated on some issues, from economic and social development. When Croatia returns here, what obstacles do you have? You have an example. This bureaucracy of socialist, it takes 3 years for citizenship, 2 years for a housekeeper, every 6 months a birth certificate has to be raised, it's intended sabotage from some staff, maybe they're in the MUP. That last stop is Blackie. No correspondence, these people have a formal right to vote but he actually has to fly out of Vancouver to vote there in Toronto, Ottawa. At the same time we return the Chetniks here who have been aggressive in Croatia, there are 31 thousand requests for the return of the people who were here when the aggression was committed to Croatia. And those of us out here who contribute money here, they're excluded from what I said, economic and social development. It's amazing that 20 years after the war, we still don't have a censorship and an exact picture of how many people we have out there, what their abilities are, how they're divided, how they feel, there's almost 3 million of those people out there, at least 3 million. And there are no consulates in New Zealand, etc. The returnees, here, some would come back, Venezuela is a de facto in the war, you have people who would come back, about 200 from South America can't come. Their files stand there in drawers for years, you have 5,000 files that have not been processed and that is what I would say, early Croatian state cancer is that Croatian diplomacy, where the former UDBA personnel, the parties whose only interest is their buttocks, are nothing else. They've been there 14 years. What about economic diplomacy? Absolutely nothing. That's where they're stationed. You're wondering here where the greenfield investments are? ... investments in Croatia? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What IKEA? They're not there yet, there's no legal framework here, and people aren't coming back until this legal puss is fixed because there are also ex-students sitting in the judiciary, that's why there are hundreds of thousands of unsolved cases. You have people, not only a monetary contribution but who contributed, here, a concrete contribution, these are the trust of brains. People who would settle the constitutional law, which would take care of land books, you have a state of Ontario that has 51 million particles in Canada, they've taken care of their land books in 17 years. Digitalization, and here we have the state of most Costa Rica and we haven't taken care of anything yet. 5% of the land books are taken care of. That means these people aren't wanted here. They're not wanted but they'll come here from Syrian refugees, and Venezuela, Chile, Argentina, nothing. In the end, Poland established an institution called the National Memory Institution, what do we know about the diaspora? Absolutely nothing. Here, I have a book here, it's a contribution to what the Croats did in the '80s, an organization that lobbyed to free Vlado Gotovina,... , one nun got six and a half years of reading the newspaper and those people who ratted on her are eating at the Faculty of Philosophy today and they are joined in Croatian society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why the archives aren't open. When we look at the Faculty of Philosophy, 2,000 students are closed in '71. the years in this regime that had more Polish prisoners than the Soviet Union per capital. No one's talking about it. We need intervention here at the strategic level to integrate these Croatians as quickly as possible, to start ruling a decree here and not to speak once, as in fairy tales.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47538	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Advocacy Club We will change Croatia, the honourable representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47539	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, the respected citizens who follow us, allow me to present another set of Croatian judicial absurdities, which are living through our most endangered citizens, in this apartment, after a break. Yesterday morning, a desperate Croatian defender, Mr. Gajcic from Osijek, approached us at the relief club. It's about the next one. Mr. Gajcic is one of the 1,000 citizens in the Republic of Croatia, who launched a Kosovo consumer bankruptcy procedure in Osijek, Baranja County in May 2017. Last week, he was given the court's decision to reject a proposal for personal bankruptcy, since, among other things, both Commissioners in Osijek Baranja County for consumer bankruptcy have quit, and the court cannot grant him the commissioner to conduct a personal bankruptcy. According to the Consumer Bank Act, which has been in force since the beginning of 2016, the right to appeal can only be lodged once, and then so on. Bankruptcy under the law can be initiated by any natural person as a consumer, but also by a natural person who carries out an independent activity, therefore, a craftsman, a free profession, provided that there are no more than 20 creditors, and that his obligations do not exceed 100000 kn. For an illustration that illustrates the situation in which 1 000 citizens are present, I will present the case of Mr. Gajcic who spoke to us. What I want to point out is that there is a debt slavery of citizens with small incomes that have no credit whatsoever. In this case, the debt came from the allowed overrun of the so-called. which for years closes with small amounts, but because of the tight interest he roars and grows. The main of his debt, today, is the new capital of £68000, and tomorrow, who knows how much. How it all started. Mr. Gajcic lives on a professional pension of 1900 kn. For the past six years, he's had 2 downs in 2 banks in the amount of 1200 and 1500 kn, and which were the moment he was badly injured without receiving an end. The allowed minus during the most difficult period of life has become about 3000 kn. He's been paying him off for five years and he's paid more than 20 grand back, you see. But due to the straining interest, the debt still stands at £9000, or €18000, in both banks. But there is no end to his suffering. One of the banks sold her debt to the law enforcement agency. The agency calls him by phone every day, harassing him, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by phone, by any means, by any means known to him. The amount left for him to live in a protected account is barely enough for basic needs, so he was quickly struck by other tasks. For years he has lived in a blockade in the agony of a growing debt, which has turned into debt slavery, a true debt slavery. When a few years ago he wanted a debt that on the fini grows without end and end to close... A loan he could settle, no bank wanted to meet him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's on the blacklist, it's blocked and finished. For him, the only legal solution was the opening of consumer bankruptcy, which is highly questionable because of the lack of Commissioners and its future is at risk until the end. The procedures for bankruptcy against consumers lead to courts, but the law states that before the court proceedings are initiated, outside the court procedure an attempt is made to reach a settlement, and therefore there is 21 consultations within the FINA in all counties. And to conclude in the end, because there's useful data here. Today we still have about 330,000 blocked in the country, it is about €42 billion in debt, which is about a million with family members. So, ever since the bankruptcy law came in, he's asked for a personal... Only 0.3% of citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it didn't work, it's a completely missed solution. The conclusion is, if there are no commissioners, how to repay the debts with dignity. And in the end, it must react here, change the parties, change Croatia is pushing for a solution that all debts that cannot be recovered for a long time must be written off after a brief procedure. We also believe that Croatia is mature for a one-year moratorium, which must immediately begin and ask the government to bring emergency lex blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47540	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge, the next one will be taken by the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47541	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As I have announced, today I will refer to the procedure to amend the proposal for a committee on Agrokor. You all know that a mistake has been made, perhaps even intended by those who voted this commission, HDZ and SDP because it was one package, where constitutional judges were elected, that no vice-president was elected. But no one has made a new proposal, or amendment to the decision proposal, and there is an obvious intention to obstruct the work of the commission, I have well said that it is an unwanted child of HDZ because they do not want the full truth about Agrokor. He's signed this amendment so far where we're going to choose the vice president, where we're going to remove the article on financial reports in the Agrokor concert, I mean 24 MPs. Even some representatives of the position, meaning ruling, which shows that there is an interest in finding out the truth about everything that has been going on around Agrokor, responsibility and policy and policy-making, both Ivica Todorovic and Agrokor. And I think all HDZ argument is that the investigative commission shouldn't be working. I don't see if this investigation itself does not carry out USKOK means it's not organised crime, it's about falsifying the balance, which shows that all suspects were released, except for Ivica Todorovic who took responsibility for himself, these people walk freely, go for coffee, talk, get released, they're free. And we, imagine we must not discuss the responsibility of politics, the responsibility of former diameters, ministers, economies, agriculture, the heads of institutions, this is a classic replacement of the thesis and attempt to obstruct the work of the Assembly Research Commission. But if you persist, I will put this in the process, if you don't put this on the agenda, it will be clear evidence that you intend to obstruct the full truth of what happened in Agrokor. In this case, it's not just politicians' or institutions' responsibilities. As unpopular as it is for some politician to attack the media, I'll do it. I don't care what they write about me, it's important to me that I can sleep alone before I sleep, peacefully, with my conscience and with my conscience, that I can wake up in the morning calmly and that I've made everything better for this country, because we all see what our judiciary is like. I will now show an article because there is also a media responsibility in the case of Agrokor, in which way our media is doing their job. On the cover of today's Free, my colleague Miro Bulj, with a blue cap and a title: “Did Miro Bulj have a syncope? In the Parliament passed the power plant on Peru, the hand raised and the biggest opponent." And then, in the headline, “I’m shocked, I didn’t know what I was raising my hand for. ” I didn't fall asleep until 2:00 last night, and I was going through this spatial development strategy with my colleague Bula, to see if there was anything planted, and we all voted in the assembly for that strategy, and then I compared it a little with this article. The article says that T-Pera is a strategic project, which is not true, means the first untruth. Then it says that my colleague Bulj supported this thermopower plant even though it's not mentioned anywhere in the text section at all. It is mentioned in the remarks of the Split-Dalmatian County Office, which was not accepted, but was given an explanation. It is mentioned in the investor’s observation, MC Exclusive real estate d.o.o. which makes an observation to be classified. That remark came out of date and only the applicant provided an explanation to it. And the only place where T-Peruca is located is in a cartographic display as a potential location because in the spatial plan of Split-Dalmatia County it stands in the text section that if the project becomes strategic it will be included in spatial documentation. And imagine you pranks, and to make it worse, people don't even call to ask for a comment and put his statement, "I had no idea that from voting" and yet plant a syncope like Miro Bulj as Horvatinčić is getting out on the syncope and he doesn't know what he voted for. This is the bottom of journalism. Let me be trampled again by HANZA MEDIA, Morning and Free, but what they're doing and what they've been doing in the case of Agrokor, no one has had the courage to write anything against the edge of Todoric and now everyone's treading it. And you are dear media, that is, part of the media problem of this Croatian society and part of you journalists and editors should come before this Parliament's Investigative Commission and now continue to step on me and my colleague Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47542	Thank you very much. And last on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47543	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Every day this Parliament begins its work through a break on the issue of Agrokor or the Commission of Investigation. We have already said many times in the HDZ Club of Representatives, I don't know if we will again after this break and repeat, if the County Court in Zagreb confirms the decision to open an investigation, the conditions laid down in Article 4 of the Law on Investigation Commissions have been met for us at the HDZ Club. According to that article and paragraph 2, it has to stop working. Therefore, no HDZ vice-president or other political party, as far as we are concerned, has the need to be appointed because the commission will stop working. It's a perfectly clear formulation in the law itself. We can politicize, we can make arguments like this and stuff, but that's perfectly clear. Whether the opposition colleagues accept it or not, that's their business. We don't get into it, we've already decided on it. Therefore, if in the next ten days, the County Court in Zagreb confirms the state's attorney's decision to open an investigation, it will have to stop working by law. And there's no need to exhaust it anymore. Which makes us MPs, members of the HDZ order, and I think that is the attitude and the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament. I don't think so. I'm sure of it. As for this morning's, this morning's announcement in Free Dalmatia, I am not entering it, and neither do we want to enter the club of representatives into the truthfulness of the article or whether Mr Bulj voted or not, the truth is to say that the strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia adopted in the Assembly on page 188 provides for a potential location for the construction of the Peruč thermal power plant. ... Comrade Sagar, I have this Strategy for you, so you can look at it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So each of us who voted in favour of the Strategy also voted in favour of the provisions of that strategy. Whether it was clear enough, visible or not, it is now another matter of how much someone and how they read the Strategy, but I think the truths are done by us who voted for the Strategy we were aware that we were also voting for the potential location provided for by the Strategy. It is necessary to say that the Strategy is not an implementing document, the Strategy is not an implementing document. The implementation document in the Republic of Croatia relating not only to objects of strategic importance but to all projects of importance for the Republic of Croatia will be defined by the Spatial Plan of Development of the Republic of Croatia, which is necessary by the end of 2019, in accordance with the Spatial Regulation Act. So it's absolutely not a dispute. The strategy is the basis for a spatial plan, a state spatial plan. Therefore, there is still a lot until the construction is realised or implemented, the fact is that the facility is planned in the spatial plan of the Croatian municipality's arrangement. The fact is that an environmental impact study was made for this facility. The fact that the environmental impact study is currently in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. What kind of attitude, what kind of solution will the Ministry of Environmental Protection make regarding the study that has been made, we will have to wait for the decision of the Commission, the position of the Commission, the opinion of the Committee and, ultimately, the position of the Ministry of Environment and Nature. Therefore, the strategy does not pop out of the documentation, spatial planning documentation that is currently in force in both the Republic of Croatia and in the spatial plan of Split-Dalmatia County and in the spatial planning of the Croatian Municipality, so nothing dramatically happened with this strategy. The strategy is respected documentation which is now in place but for the realisation and not for the realisation of the facility, there are many, many steps that are foreseen by the Law on Spatial Planning and the Construction Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47544	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47756	He asked for the word Mr. Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47757	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club about a new moment around the parliamentary investigative committee on Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47758	As far as you're concerned, can you take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47759	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47760	You got it. He also asked for a word from Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47761	On behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, I request a break to discuss a potentially difficult situation in which an unknown number of perpetrators will be found after the Constitutional Court's decision to abolish one part of the rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47762	Do you mind if I take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47763	It's okay without a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47764	Thank you. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47765	I'm also looking for a recess from Mr. Vice President on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club on the investigative committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47766	You can do the same without a break, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47767	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47768	Here you go, Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47769	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As I announced, I have been collecting signatures in these two days to amend the decision on the Assembly's research committee on Agrokor. I was expecting to collect a number of signatures and pass by Agent Most, but I didn't expect this kind of response. I've collected 35 signatures, the signatures of the entire opposition. So I had this statement an hour ago for the media, they were signed and the Living Wall and we change Croatia and IDS and here's now and GLAS here in the Croatian Parliament, Independent for Croatia, so all clubs have signed, of course, the Bridge and I invited the practical and SDP as the most numerous opposition party to have a certain time to join this request. Or it will be obvious that they are also obstructing the work of this investigative committee and that their struggle for a parliamentary investigative commission is actually one fine farce as it is in the case of HDZ. After an hour, I got a call from the president of the SDP's Club of Representatives who said they were ready to sign, and they just signed. So, colleagues Bauk and colleagues Franco Vidovic. ... I have an announcement that some more should be signed and I think it is now obvious that it is not only the will of the people, to learn the full truth about Agrokor, but it is the will of all political options, even representatives of the ruling majority. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here is my colleague, Misic, who is the representative of the ruling majority, who also signed this request, and I think there are no more obstacles, especially since this proposal, apart from the election of the vice president who has not been elected, the chairman, or the president of the Parliament, must be put to the debate because that committee elected by HDZ and the SDP is illegal, no vice president, cannot be elected between ourselves at these meetings. So this decision must be put in the process, for her the entire opposition even part of the ruling majority's representatives supported and I expect, I won't still hand this over, I'll be so constructive and give my hand to the HDZ, so that they don't turn out to be obstructing the work of this commission. I'm going to leave this decision down at the MOST club by 3:00, and I'm going to give it a chance, I know that not all HDZ representatives are there, but it's enough to sign the president of the club Mr. Branko Bačić which will be a message that HDZ has nothing against this Assembly's Investigation Commission, too, especially if we take into account that all suspects are released, so that they're free to drink coffee, talk, that this is not a USCOC case concerning organised crime, because it's not some broad investigation, so it's dealing with the fake balance sheet, one man is obviously taking responsibility for himself, there's no reason why we wouldn't question the creation of the very concert Agrokor, the circumstances that led to it. Why don't we question politicians, why don't we question the heads of institutions, why don't all these people come and answer certain questions. This has nothing to do with this investigation, and it's time for HDZ to do the job after six months of stalling to agree to the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, we could have done this job already, at the 4th month, I think it was a request. It is time for them to understand that this is in the interest of the Croatian public, in the interest of the future, in the interest of transparency, that the similar situation that has happened to us now with Agrokora would not be repeated in the future. I expect until 3:00 to sign the president of the HDZ Club of Representatives, Mr Branko Bačić, which will be a sign that HDZ is ready to shed light on the whole situation, that those responsible for either inaction or inaction provide certain answers to the Assembly's Investigative Commission. And finally, one information, I am preparing serious documentation for this Assembly Investigation Commission, I was informed that there is a criminal application in the president's office that was raised in the '90s against Mr. Ivica Todorovic, which shows that all these institutions that we spoke of were not only scheduled, but that the DORH and our judicial system had failed, because, according to this criminal application, absolutely nothing was done so that in the coming days or through the Committee, if HDZ agreed to it or otherwise fought for the full truth about Agrokor and the favoring and prevention of politics and Agrokor Ivica Todorovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47770	Mr. Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47771	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to talk about a situation that is now emerging and it is said that an unknown number of perpetrators have come into a very difficult situation since the Constitutional Court's decision of 11 July 2017. This Decision abolished one provision in the rules on the way in which the cash implementation is carried out, and that means that all debtors who signed whole-paying consent declarations between 2005 and June 2008 will receive the full salary in the future. I believe that such an interpretation of the conduct of the perpetrators is neither correct nor correct, although everyone assures me, not everyone but the government assures me that this is the case, I believe that this is not the case, because the amendments to the Executive Act this year Article 21 is accurate and decidently prescribed which part of the salary may be executed and Article 44. The implementing law provides that this article will apply to all executive proceedings pending without prejudice when they are launched. In other words, executive procedures last until the last debt is not paid. As long as the last June of the debt is not paid, the executive procedure takes place and since the restriction of enforcement under amendments to the Implementing Law published in the National Journal 73/17 applies to all executive procedures in progress, regardless of when they are launched, then I do not believe that the full salary should be made to the debtors who signed a declaration by June 2008. If that is not the case, then I believe that the government must take all necessary measures to make it so declared right. And to prevent the full pay. I sent an e-mail to Justice Minister Bošnjakovic that the Ministry of Justice should make a statement in this sense as I interpret it, but today I learn from the minister that the full salary can be carried out if such consent is signed before 17 June 2008. I think it's terrible, and I really don't know how these people are gonna live. How will people living on top of such a single statement, such an announcement, such a single legal attitude, be stripped of the entire salary, from what will these people live? Can you imagine how these people will live? So, I appeal once again to us here, to the Minister of Justice to urgently take the necessary measures so that the full salary cannot be carried out but to apply the provisions of Article 173. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47772	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47773	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's the second time today, on the same topic we held a break regarding the investigative commission in Agrokor. We at the HDZ Club haven't changed anything compared to my presentation this morning about the establishment of an investigative commission. We continue to argue that according to the Law on Investigation Commissions, when the County Court in Zagreb confirms the decision to open an investigation, the circumstances of Art. 4. point (b) is replaced by the following: The law on investigating committees, that the commission should stop working. We continue to hold that it is the legal and only possible solution to the further work of the commission. This is one position for us in HDZ and another is the one that Andrej Plenkovic, the president of the Croatian government, said during the annual report on the work of the government, which is that there are a number of other business opportunities, when it comes to defining and determining the circumstances of Agrokor. Whether it's through the work of the working bodies or through the discussion of the plenary session. Therefore, these provisions of the Rules of Procedure do not conflict with the law either with the Law on the Investigation Commission or with any other law. Therefore, what would interest all of us parliamentary representatives, all the circumstances that I think you should say about the current developments around Agrokor, can be solved through the work of individual constituencies on the one hand. And on the other hand through the agenda point here in the Croatian Parliament. It is possible, through a particular thematic session of the working body itself, that it was the Committee on the Economy, whether it was the Committee on Finance or a joint thematic session on those two committees, to establish, to request that those persons for whom we consider them to be relevant, to be able to provide relevant information concerning the work of certain national authorities. However, this is a business provision that is possible, which is legal, and which we will certainly agree to in the HDZ Club and contribute to these two bodies. We are not and we do not want to violate a law that is clear, unequivocal, which leaves no possibility of any kind of investigative commission being done, in part. Neither I nor we at the HDZ Representatives' Club know what is said in the decision to open an investigation, nor do we know whether at some point this investigation will expand to some circumstances which are not currently written in the decision of the state's attorney to open an investigation. So they don't contaminate the case, the court case. In order not to make it more difficult for witnesses who will clearly and possibly indictees who will have to defend themselves, and who will be forced to work in the Assembly, and therefore this article on investigation committees has also been adopted in order not to in some way interfere with criminal proceedings, i.e. judicial proceedings. I read a phonogram from the 1996 Parliament session when the Law on the Investigation Commission was passed. Many MPs, not to mention them now, were then ruling or opposing ones agreeing to be included in the second reading that was then carried out under the Law on Investigative Trusts. In order to allow the Croatian judiciary to carry out the procedure uninterruptedly, a court procedure is conducted when charges are brought against an individual or more. So what was '96. Mr. We stand on it today, which is that we should not, with the work of the investigation committee, further burden and contaminating the court proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u47774	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53982	Now we can finally move to the first point of today's agenda, which is: - Annual report on the implementation of the strategy and the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2016 is submitted by the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 15. Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, the government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yes, the esteemed head of the Croatian Central Office outside the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives, MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to start by saying that it is almost 5 years of the existence of a central state office or some state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, for the first time the office has submitted a report in this House, so this is our legal obligation, and I think we all have to problem and look for the best way to work with people of Croatian origin living outside the country. Therefore, the survival and prosperity of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia is an important prerequisite for achieving the overall, demographic, political and economic potential of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is of great importance that the work and operation of the central state office as the holder and central body for the realisation of state policy in relation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. At the end of 2011, the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside our homeland was adopted, on the basis of which an office was established in mid-2012, creating fundamental legal and institutional assumptions for the construction of systematic and effective cooperation with Croats living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. So it is a constitutive Croatian people in BiH, a Croatian minority in 12 European states and Croatian emigration in the overseas and European states. The central state office is working closely with other restoring ministries, and achieves quality communication with national, cultural and scientific institutions, with a special emphasis on good co-operation with the Croatian queen of emigrants, the Ministry of Foreign and European Relations and the working body of the Croatian Parliament, the Assembly Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It is also important to highlight the constructive cooperation we have achieved with the Catholic Church or the Croatian Foreign Council and Croatian Catholic missions that have been the holders of the preservation of Croatian identity in Croatian communities around the world for decades. The main tasks of the office are the protection of the rights of interest of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the establishment and maintenance and promotion of ties with Croats outside our country, the strengthening of their communities, the improvement of cooperation, especially the economic, promotion of the return of emigrants and their inclusion in the economic and social life of the Republic of Croatia. And the central state office in this whole story is the coordinator and in some ways oversees activities between the competent ministries, so other authorities of the state administration and other holders of cooperation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account the different needs and positions of Croats living outside our homeland, various programmes and projects are designed and implemented for Croatians in BiH, the Croatian minority, Croatian emigration. We assign our support to programmes and projects that live outside the country transparently, in accordance with the prescribed criteria within 7 invitations tenders. It is a public tender for funding programmes and projects of interest for the Croatian people in BiH through which cultural, educational, scientific and health needs of the Croatian people in BiH are financed. Furthermore, a public tender for funding programmes and projects of the Croatian minority in 12 European countries through which programmes and projects that strengthen minority rights of Croats are financed and supported has so far marked the support of around 20 million kuna. Public tender for funding of Croatian emigration programmes and projects fostering co-operation with associations and institutions of emigrants. Public tender for the financing of the publishing activity of Croatian emigrants. Public call for funding of special needs and projects of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia with the main goal of promoting links, strengthening cooperation, preserving the identity of Croats from around the world as well as helping endangered individuals outside the Republic of Croatia. Public tender for the scholarship of students, members of Croatian people with residence outside the Republic of Croatia through which 500 students are awarded annually to improve their personal knowledge, as well as the overall intellectual potential of Croatian communities abroad. Public call for Croatian language learning in the Republic of Croatia which is primarily intended for emigrated Croats and their descendants with the aim of getting to know and nurture Croatian culture and national identity and promoting cooperation and integration. With special attention, I monitor everything that happens in neighbouring BiH, of course at the centre of interest, Croatians, their position, status and need, because the issue of Croats in BiH as a constituent and equal people, the improvement of their position and quality of everyday life, the government of the Republic of Croatia has put a strategic task and these objectives are clearly defined and highlighted in the government's work programme itself. The first key foreign political priority of the government is precisely the European route of the BIH and the equal position of Croats as one of the 3 constituent peoples. In that sense, Croatia is leading a stronger integration policy with Croats in the BIH, a stronger support, which is the priority of all institutions in the Republic of Croatia. The central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is implementing 3 support programmes to strengthen the position of Croats in the BiH and for which we secured 23 million and 645000 kn in 2016. Which is almost a million and a half more compared to 2015. It is about support programmes for Croatians in BIH, which are financed by educated, cultural, scientific and health programmes and other programmes, as well as projects of special interest for Croatian people in BIH. In addition, it is a programme of financing specific needs and projects, as well as assistance for desperate individuals who cannot take care of their daily lives alone. The student scholarship programme, so in last year in 2016 150 students were scholarshipd more than the year before. It is an improvement in the knowledge of intellectual abilities, therefore, a skill that will help young people to stay in their places of birth and to help themselves and their families and the whole society in which they live. Support to Croatians in the BIH regarding the financing of education, cultural, scientific, health and other programmes is therefore about connecting with Croatians, support for their return, remnant and safeguarding their equality, which is of course the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. We help finance through various programs, from the construction and restoration of schools, kindergartens, school sports halls, student homes, cultural centres, health homes, homes for elderly and powerless. So all that will help our people, but it also opens new jobs. Because new jobs are one prerequisite for staying in those areas. For the first time last year, it is also a support for the launch of production in the field of economic cultures, as well as standard cultures in order to revive small agricultural economies. And we also supported the most vulnerable groups in society, such as building a children's centre with difficulties to develop, develop, to the center for victims of domestic violence. In the scholarship program, we try to strengthen education and scientific capacities and try to encourage young people to stay where they were born, in order to, I say, enable their skills to be as good and as prosperous as possible for the society they live in. The programmes and projects we are implementing have a clear goal, it is important to stress that increased support is primarily for Croats who are primarily due to war injuries and after other circumstances the most vulnerable in the BiH. They're Croats in Bosnia's Posavina. Compared to 2015, the funds increased by 165%. So money is not grateful to talk, but it is one message and an indicator of how and how the government of the Republic of Croatia thinks about the situation of Croats who are the most endangered in the BiH. It should be noted that all investments by the Republic of Croatia through projects and programmes of interest to the Croatian people in the BIH are at the same time investments in the whole of the BIH and contribute to the improvement of all its peoples and citizens. In addition to the projects we implement, the office is in daily communication and successfully co-operates with the political stops of Croats at all levels of government in BIH with numerous associations and associations that work, but also beyond. The institutions and institutions in the fields of culture, science and education. Just as we would adequately and effectively address the difficulties and problems facing our people in the BIH, we strengthened cooperation... institutions in the Republic of Croatia, as recognised by Croats in the BIH as a significant shift in current practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was the case in the Croatian Parliament, organised by the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, in June 2016, the thematic sessions, the Croatian issue in the BIH, which discussed the current state and problems facing Croats in the BIH, which I participated in as an envoy of the Croatian government. And these sessions, which will be thematicalized by the biggest problems they face, not only our people in the BIH, but the Croats who live in general are necessary and I thank the Committee for the engagement in this regard. Finally, a lot is done, a lot is done, but there is a lot of room for further improvement, both our mutual relations and the space for strengthening cooperation in all these areas, especially in the field of economy. The BIH is also on the EU threshold. Therefore, European funds and EU funds are an important instrument for mobilising good ideas, creating quality projects, and launching the key for the sustainable survival and survival of Croats in the BIH, economic growth and development, i.e. job creation. The Republic of Croatia in this area can help a lot and a lot and help through experience, knowledge and skills, and this part, therefore, education workshops for the preparation of the euro project is a priority task in the coming periods. Members of the Croatian national minority have lived in 12 European countries for centuries, and despite the various difficulties, the challenges they faced and the challenges they have managed to maintain their linguistic, cultural and national identity. The central state office is taking a number of activities to keep Croatian minority communities going, to develop and to develop both in their country and country, awareness has developed that they are an integral part of the Croatian people and Croatian cultural space. We continuously support various programmes and projects of Croatian institutions, associations and societies, and provide strong support in resolving status issues. Seminars for the Croatian minority from the Republic of Croatia have been organised, with the aim of acquiring the knowledge and competence needed to protect and improve minority rights during Serbia's accession negotiations for EU membership. In addition, additional funds have been allocated for the humane empowerment of the Croatian minority in Serbia. So we are doing these activities together with other resolutions, especially with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. The central state office of the Republic of Croatia is also a coordinating body and business holder in relation to the preparation and maintenance of meetings of intergovernmental mixed committees, which are extremely important, since the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee is a very good mechanism for improving manic status and resolving open issues. The RS has 4 intergovernmental mixed committees with Montenegro, the Republic of Macedonia, Hungary and the Republic of Serbia. Significant efforts have been made to organise meetings of the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee with a view to improving the position of national minorities. But for objective reasons, no session was held in 2016 and further efforts were made in the first half of 2017 by holding sessions with Hungary and Montenegro. On this occasion, the High Commissioner for the National Minorities of the OSCE, Mrs Astrid Thors, highlighted the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee between the Republic of Hungary as an example of quality and effective cooperation between the countries in the field of minority protection and the work and positive effects of this Intergovernmental Mixed Committee were presented at the OSCE theme session held in Vienna in November 2016. According to information obtained by Croatian diplomatic representatives at the OSCE, it was the first time that an institution of the Republic of Croatia had the opportunity to present its work and action as an example of best practice. Support is given to meeting the cultural, educational needs of members of the Croatian minority with special emphasis on strengthening the media in Croatian, where we highlight the three weeks issued by representatives of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Austria Croatian weekly, the Hungarian Croatian Messenger and the Republic of Serbia Croatian word. At the end of 2016, we created preconditions and argued the need to increase financial support to the Croatian minority and the state budget adopted by this House on 15 December 2016 provided funds for a 50% increase in funding for support of Croatian minority programmes and projects, which will certainly have multiple positive effects and we will talk about this in the 2017 report. As far as Croatian emigrants are concerned, Croatians are a people who have very many emigrants, our workers live literally on every corner of all continents and make different ones, and in different ways keep their Croatian identity. The Central State Office implements two programmes: a programme to support Croatian emigration and publishing support with the aim of developing cooperation with Croatian emigrants and supporting the preservation of what we recognise as Croats. In this way, systematic support is provided for the financing of associations and communities of Croatian emigrants with an emphasis on emigration in South America. For the preservation of Croatian identity, knowledge of Croatian is of paramount importance. In our work, therefore, we pay special attention to learning and teaching languages, as knowledge of the language is now unmistakable to preserve and develop Croatian identity. The current office has different activities aimed at learning Croatian language helps our countrymen in the world. And what makes me very happy is the increased interest of all our countrymen and their descendants in learning language and learning Croatian culture. I therefore highlight the program of learning Croatian language at universities in the Republic of Croatia. croaticum held at universities in Zagreb, Split and Rijeka and has a personal importance in terms of fostering and promoting language and culture. Most users come from South America, but they come from both Australia and North America and from all other continents. This programme encourages the return of Croatian emigrants and their descendants and creates preconditions for easier inclusion in the economic, social and all other forms of life of the Republic of Croatia. Despite the fact that most of the participants are returning to the countries from which they come and remains and these others are more actively involved in the work of the emigrant communities through the programme, which gives added value to this programme. As an example, I will list Hugo Emanuel Estigarribia, president of the Paraguayan Association of Croats, a former member of the Croatian Croatian-language Croatian language teacher today in Paraguay, is a representative of the Croatian World Congress and has also become a judicial interpreter for Croatian language in Paraguay. So you can. In 2016, a step was made by amending the existing rule increasing the possibility of learning Croatian language up to 4 semesters in order to better master the language, in order to make it easier to engage in life in Croatia by continuing studies or employment. As regards the status rights of students in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, it is easier to regulate their stay during their studies and negotiations are under way with the Croatian Institute of Health on the possibility of settlement of health insurance costs. Given the importance of the programme, the office increases the number of fees per year for language learning in the Republic of Croatia. We continuously support the returnees, all emigrated Croats and their descendants who want to settle in the Republic of Croatia and thus contribute to the achievement of the important strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia. A few words about the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia consists of representatives of Croatian communities from around the world of which 55 come from abroad and together with representatives of state bodies and institutions of the Catholic Church and civil society organisations in the Homeland have the task of helping the Croatian Government create and implement policies, activities and programmes in relation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The 3rd session was held in Vukovar on 9 and 10 December 2016, and it adopted concrete proposals or conclusions that will contribute to a stronger integration of the country's emigrant Croatia. The conclusions were delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or to all relevant resolution ministries. During the 1st day of the Council's session, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic also attended and stressed the openness and readiness of the government of the Republic of Croatia to take concrete measures and activities when it comes to Croats outside the country. The members of the Council also met with the president of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. The statutory mandate of the members of the Council takes four years to re-election of members of the Council, and a decision on the establishment and appointment of members of the Council on a new composition was taken at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 7 September of this year and the constitutive session will be held in Zagreb on 17, 18 and 19 December. So during 2016 there were a series of meetings with... Croatian social, scientific, educational, cultural, economic life from all over the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We continuously maintain communication with the emigrant communities, with diplomatic and consular representations around the world to recognise the problems and challenges of Croatian communities in time. We strengthen the relationship between the Republic of Croatia as a mother country and emigrants and try to motivate people to return to the Republic of Croatia but not at all costs. This can only be achieved by opening up the overall potential of the Republic of Croatia so that children of our emigrants simply get a desire to return to their ancestors' homeland. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, certain solutions have been initiated as part of the full tax reform to reduce the tax work of taxing the pensions of our emigrants and the funds of our office, based on the contract of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government and the HRT, the programme content intended for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which can announce the close opening of correspondence in Mostar, Sarajevo and the 5th channel that will be for diaspora. With the aim of getting acquainted with the current problems and challenges facing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, representatives of the central office are constantly holding meetings with representatives of the Croatian people in BiH, the Croatian minority, 12 countries of Europe and Croatian emigration, and are visiting areas where they live and participate in their most important activities. Therefore, personal contact and personal visitation are extremely important and contributes to improving their status in the environments in which they live and as a development of trust which I am sure we are all, as I would say, on the trail that has disappeared over these years and on all of us together, to return it in the best possible way possible. Finally, with special attention, I would like to look again at the held Vukovar Council meeting of the Government. We took the view of the Government according to the conclusions in question, and I would like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a task and of strategic interest pointed out the finding of legal solutions and relevant rules to facilitate the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for members of the Croatian people, their descendants and spouses, the appropriate exercise of electoral law, the possibility of introducing a letter vote and the continued finding of new ways of systematic co-operation. In these tasks and all forms of promotion and preservation of Croatian identity, tradition, culture and language abroad, as well as learning Croatian language in Croatia for members of Croatian emigrants, in all steps that contribute to the improvement of the Republic of Croatia, as well as stronger and better quality relations of emigrant and native Croatia, the office will continue to work in a committed and continuous manner. I would also like to thank all of the mentioned partners and all of you who, by your knowledge, effort and abilities, contribute to quality solutions, your support, cooperation and mutual correction, we expect to continue to be high-level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53984	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? And excuse me, we have more replicas. First of all, Reverend Angelko Striker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53985	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. In your report you touched HRT, so we know that a few years ago Mr. Radman, the head director of the Croatian HRT, not only abolished numerous HRT centres in BiH but also in our homeland. In this way, for one quality, let's say the local programme, the rest were denied and our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. My question would be whether and how does it work with HRT now? Do you plan to reopen these TV centres in neighbouring countries especially where there is a higher percentage of our countrymen or just at the level of correspondence to strengthen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53986	The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank the honourable representative for this question, so co-operation with HRT which is legally defined, so the contract that HRT is signing with the Government of the Republic of Croatia contains provisions relating to the opening of studies, therefore, correspondence in Mostar, which has been abolished as you said in Sarajevo as well. And it will be realised very quickly, given that the Croatian people in Mostar, or in BiH, absolutely deserves and needs such correspondence, which will no longer be possible with any director's decision just to shut down, but will indeed be for the benefit of all the people who live, so not only to the Croats, and will certainly be opened in a very soon time. In addition to what I said in the report, everything that has so far been unreachable to the Croats no matter where they live, we try and hope that in January we will succeed, so by opening the so-called Five channels since HRT is now four, this should be five, so-called five. a channel for Croatian emigration or diaspora where they will be able to view all those products of HRT, so that everything that is produced in the Republic of Croatia and public service is available to them. And I must point out that cooperation with HRT is very good, that everything that we are trying to achieve together, I will refer to here, to the past Croatian world in July of this year, where we were indeed accompanied and all those participants, there were over 1100 of them from around the world, so young people, had absolutely every day by their cameramen, Croatian reporters and everyone could see what was going on. So I hope that such cooperation will remain still, and that it will even improve and here, on this occasion, I have told my colleagues from HRT that in my report I will highlight what needs to happen very quickly, they agree, stand behind it and I firmly believe that it will be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53988	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53989	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Milos, with an associate. 2016 was indeed a year of major and positive shifts in relation to the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the central authorities of its institutions, mainly and your office towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, outside our country, given the 3 strategic goals you have set, progress has been evident in achieving them, especially with regard to improving and improving the position of Croats in BiH. It is important to contribute financial support to numerous infrastructure and scientific, educational and cultural and other important projects aimed at protecting Croats, or strengthening their communities and promoting Croatian national values. I would also take the opportunity to point out, with financial support in some way, the political support for the realisation of the very rights of our Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, with particular emphasis on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, who has set the right to foreign political priority, and if I am not mistaken seven times there and has personally stayed there. But I also have to ask one question that I was interested in is about the problem of recognising Croats as a national minority in the Republic of Slovenia. According to relevant data and estimates, in Slovenia the number of inhabitants of Croatia was over 55,000, and some minorities, i.e. some individual peoples in Slovenia have already received minority status, and here, the Croatian community has no national minority status, which has been denied a number of rights enjoyed by certain peoples, and this includes serious financial assistance that... Well, here's the answer to that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53990	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53991	Thank you very much. Right, you noticed everything well, so as I said, the Croatian people in BIH are the strategic priority tasks of the government of the Republic of Croatia and as I said, it is always ungrateful to talk about money. Sometimes the message of coming and going among people is rather than any concrete material aid. And that's what he's really talking about is that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, therefore, reminded the BiH seven times in the first year of his term. He tried to visit indeed all the areas, therefore, all the areas in which the Croats live. And this is very well accepted, and as a message, I think it is very important, and we as a central office, although we care, that is, we need to take care of all Croats, no matter where they live, our focus by gaining all the circumstances, by acquiring that Croats are a constructive people, and we all know in what circumstances they live in right now, we try to participate as much in the daily life of all our people, the community, we try together with them to solve the problems that exist. As for our people in Slovenia, you're right. So, for 26 years as far as there is, 27 almost Republic of Slovenia, this issue of resolving Croats as a national, therefore, resolving the status of national minority, has not been moved by a millimeter, regardless of which the Croats there are the most numerous community, which are indigenous, the community has lived for centuries, unlike Italian, Hungarian, which are much less, but have status. And we're trying, along with our communities, along with Mr... who is president of the probationary association, recently we were in Ljubljana and we had a joint meeting with all the associations, with all the communities, who are gathering Croats and we have set one common goal, so we will organise a committee that will be of the Croats living in Slovenia, together with support from the resolution bodies that care in some way about all this, therefore, from the offices, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Culture and Education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we will try to help them through their actions possibly to become an ethnic or linguistic community, therefore, to try in some way to improve their position, because they actually live there for centuries and are what you said, the absolutely most numerous community in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53992	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sokola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to commend the efforts made by the Central State Office. I think you've seen a lot of progress here in the last year. I'd like to mention one particular thing. Recently, the Ministry of Science and Education launched a re-initiative for the establishment of a Croatian language lecture in Novi Sad. Which would then turn into a Croatian language department in the perspective. I know because that's what I've been involved in. I think it is very important, since the Croatian language in Vojvodina has a lot to say, bad in the Institute sense of status rather than Hungarian and Romanian and thinks it is extremely important for the survival of our community in Vojvodina. I also think that now that Serbia is in the process of negotiations with the EU and is expected to meet certain high standards in terms of minority protection, it is now the right time for this initiative to be launched and supported, I hope you and I hope that as a central state office to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53994	And the last line, and the answer, however, is the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53995	Thank you very much. It's true everything you said well, here a few days ago I was right in Novi Sad on the great holiday of our Croatian community, so, the birthday of Ban Josip Jelačić and we talked about this exactly, so the opening of the lecture, but not only in Serbia, but everywhere where our communities live. At home, I am just, say, in Romania where our indigenous community of Karashev Klockutić lives, so for centuries, also in... The opening of the lecerates and wherever it will be possible, because it is unusually important for what you said, to preserve the Croatian language, namely Croatian identity, so all of those values by which we are recognised as members of the same people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I have to show here in front of all of you very good cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Education and very good, in order to say synergy as popularly said in this joint action, therefore, in terms of language in communities where it is most needed. Whether it's Serbia, Romania or the overseas countries. And yes, this is all you said, regarding the accession negotiations of the Republic of Serbia, I mentioned if you followed that the central office, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, often works, and Mr Miro Kovac's workshop, i.e., education of our Croatian community in Serbia, in order to participate as easily as possible, in everything that means the achievement of their rights during these accession negotiation processes. And we already had several such workshops in Vukovar, Zagreb, we are planning another one by the end of the year. And that's very good, they're very happy with that, and we'll continue with that practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53996	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53997	Dear Mr. Miles, here I think we've already praised the work of the office and we see... had recently been encouraged by programs etc. in BIH for every praise but at the same time I'd say you can't work in a vacuum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think, often I hear here in this House and elsewhere the word coordination, synergy, and at a strategic level, it seems like there's not much of it. The diaspora issue, here, it's been 22 years something since the end of the Homeland War, we still don't have an emigrant registry, out there, register that, we have some sort of framework for the day shop. And let's say by the third generation, people would come back, and I would only ask your opinion about it, the first question is actually some other comments. We have advice, and this Council has been a plenary session in Vukovar, people have come there, it is commendable, but at the same time it will be only one decoration until there is no centralized planning and precise work assignments divided and action plan that will act on the basis of their proposals. Secondly, Croatian wound cancer is this Croatian diplomacy. I know some people started there, the point of politics is human policy. And there they sit in these offices of people there for 14 years, 12 years, doing nothing, their interest is in them, their only interest is their main task. You have people waiting, you have in South America one state, I won't say which 5,000, sits, files people want back. Total inerts and they're ex-humans. He slaps people outside to send them ex-sports who killed Croats outside the country. And that's the point of politics, human policy. And there people started in Germany against consulates in Frankfurt to move a man who worked in the former system. Here, in the end, direct investment, if there is no framework for direct investment, the legal framework is the key thing for Croatians and investment incentives. What happens in that legal mess, people come and can't exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53998	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u53999	Thank you very much. Thank you for your commendation to the office, I appreciate that, but like you, all the best praises are when you hear them from the field, when you go among people, when you talk to them, when they get some kind of picture, finally something positive in the office's work, then it's the greatest incentive and the best commendation. In all this what Mr. Glasnović said, the MP, I can agree with a lot of things. But I have to say in this year how much does this government of the Republic of Croatia, or 2016, was a year more technical, so we had a budget in the 4th month, in the 6th month the government went missing, we had elections, so a lot of things were delayed for the year we were in and maybe more. What am I saying? We're a young country, no matter what we are, for 26 years. You generals know best what five years of war means. I come from Vukovar and I know how I lived the next five years after that five years of war and how my parents lived. So I don't justify this condition. There were many mistakes, and I said at first, we need to restore the trust of the people who lived with us, so we have lived in their own way all that we had through the creation of the state. As for the opening of investments, we have a Competitiveness and Investment Agency, we cooperate with them. All the potentials that the Croatian state has must, therefore, be found together so that we can open them up so as to incentivise the simple desire of the second, third generation, young people, young people, so the descendants of our emigrants who see Croatia. I have many examples, here and yesterday I got, I came back from Australia recently with excellent impressions, I have to be honest. I immediately heard from a young man who's in a party I don't know Green, he's in opposition there, he's the party's chief advisor, he wants to go back to Croatia and he's looking for a way back. So he's got an interest. We need him all together, so the Central Office has to be the bearer. And as far as coordination is concerned, it exists and is getting better and better at gaining citizenship and everything, steps are being taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54000	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. Then I open the debate and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will speak to the distinguished representative Bozo Petrov who already has one replica and has failed to say a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54001	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to express my support for the work of the Croatian Office outside the Republic of Croatia. Most Independent Lists are aware of the need to connect emigrants with their country of origin and we believe that this link connects mutual benefit and the Republic of Croatia must work on it continuously and in a committed manner. But we are also aware that there is no clear strategy, a clear vision or goal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding Croats outside the country and that is why the Office cannot behave its function as it should. And what I'm about to say is, it's not a criticism of the Order itself, it's a criticism of the Government. The report that we should discuss today has much to change. I would like primarily to point out that when we talk about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia we are talking about two categories, we are talking about Croats in the diaspora, we are talking about Croats in BiH, who are a constituent people but unfortunately only in theory. I'll talk about it later. The link to the diaspora should be strong and we should have a strong connection. It seems to me that we lack both integration and process and continuous integration, above all the assumptions for the arrival of these people to work and life in the Republic of Croatia. And the connection and cooperation with overseas Croats far from desired. And I think most of all there is a lack of organizational assistance for the Croats outside, organisationally in related and organised cooperation with the queen of the state. And again I'm going to say there's a lack of active vision in action and a clear goal. Because if you can say something, then the potential for cooperation with Croats in the diaspora is huge, used, only a small part, a minimum part of the possibility. On the principles, cooperation models should be led by a broader debate, clear objectives should be set, they should be more targeted and concrete, less scattered and general. But one way and I'm glad it was already mentioned in the debate, how it can be compensated for the loss of the evicted population is to revive the process of repatriation, the second, third and fourth generations, but unfortunately, the government is silent about it. By the way, he has to keep his mouth shut. The government shuts up because it suits her status, the comfortable status quo for the reasons it's so simpler, easier. It's something that's common for this executive government. That is why we need to create both social and economic and organisational conditions. Organisational conditions serve to achieve a better effect with less money but this is only possible at the time when concrete objectives are defined and concrete procedures are defined for each of these objectives. The idea that should be sought is for every Croat in the world to support the development of the Republic of Croatia and for every Croat in the world to be given the opportunity to cooperate with the queen of the country. Unfortunately, it is an ideal that stems from a vision of integrated governance of the state, one that seeks MOST but unfortunately far from the current situation as the current executive government does. As far as the status of Croats in BiH is concerned, I have also been on an official trip, also spoke with representatives of all three constituent nations. What I must point out is that today the biggest challenge is to respect the Constitutional Court's decision on the unconstitutional election of members of the House of Peoples, the Federation of BiH Parliament, and to change the electoral law. The change of the electoral law should happen as soon as possible, that the Komsic case should happen to us when twice to the Croatian constitutional people, the second largest constituent people elected the president or representative in the presidency. Disrespecting the Constitutional Court's verdict and not passing an election law in the neighbouring country opens a dangerous Pandora's box. And this is not the openness of bringing, the violation, the disrespect of the right, the whole of one people is unacceptable. Croatia is a co-signator of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and it should worry about the Croats in BiH accordingly. we give full support to the federalist arrangement of BiH, we see it as the only acceptable also BiH should be governed on the principle of a constitutional democracy where all collective and individual rights of all constituent peoples and others will be ensured. Which is why MOST will continue its support, full support for Croats in BiH in exercising their rights and insisting on quality relations with the Croatian diaspora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54002	Thank you. We've got more replicas than I said before you talked, so let's get on with it. He is the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54003	Dear Vice President, I'm fighting the HDZ who is trying to obstruct the work of the Investigative Commission, so I'm sorry I had to, collect signatures and fight, so I had to replicate before the president of my party started speaking. Dear Representative Petrov, you have stated that you support the work of the Croatian office outside the Republic of Croatia and that this office should be given to the government. But we know as well as anything, the government's representatives generally respond, the data states, we have the prime minister's statements that he's been to BiH seven times a year, and my question, what are the results of his visits? I'm afraid that like other moves, the prime minister can only be praised by photographs from certain meetings. What I'm interested in is what was done to prevent the majorisation of Croats in BiH? Did Croatian ministers warn representatives at European international level? Why some countries continue to turn their backs on this issue, and this government, on behalf of false stability, does not want to blame anyone or third-rate international bureaucrats whose interests do not match, means what we want for the Croats in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54004	A reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54005	I think it's obvious that the government has taken on all other things that have been happening in Croatia for the last year here, type INA, HEP, Agrokor, Ploče, all over Croatia, not to wave, will try to defuse processes, stories, the PR team to provide an image as if something were being solved and that stable factor. The problem is that Croats in BiH do not have the luxury and do not have time to reflect the moment at which the Republic of Croatia or the executive government in the Republic of Croatia will react because it will look like we are waiting for Godot. I would say that out of their dresser, out of their indecisiveness and uncertainty, they sacrifice an entire nation in which they should worry, they're going to repeat, co-signatures of the Dayton Peace Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54006	The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54007	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Petrov, in your debate you mentioned the idea of returning emigrants to the Republic of Croatia. And you stressed that the government does not take the necessary measures to achieve this. And it's kind of keeping that coot status quo. The other day we had a chance to see that the prime minister on public television boasted the high percentage of his party's rating. I'd rather have him boasting about the reforms he's carrying out, so just as well that the ratings are somewhat lower. What does it matter? Our people out there today, who have gone, acquired knowledge and skills, have acquired some capital. How can those who now live in orderly systems dare to come into this country, invest in their capital, their knowledge and skills with such a court that is slow, which often makes suspicious decisions. With this huge state apparatus, because we've got even more ministries, even more secretary of state, with so far's assistants, and that's costing it all. So, a high tax burden and how do these people, when they come back, invest their capital, how do they be competitive? How do they fertilize that capital? And what hurts most in their conversation with them, if they come to the country and want to invest capital, then they're exposed to a political racket and notice that the party card is more important than competence and ability. And I think that the problems that the government has to face are so that this idea that is very important, which you mentioned, is starting to come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54008	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54009	It is clear that Croatia's return to Croatia is a prerequisite for resolving the situation in Croatia. Well, I think it will be clear to every average citizen after all that some still respond to this situation being still in Croatia. So he would ask that everyone be as honest, brave as Andrej Plenkovic said, so I guess we fought for our young people to be able to leave. That's what he said, publicly on TV. We fought for our young people to leave, so we joined the EU. You see, I thought we were fighting for our country, that is, that our fathers, friends, relatives, acquaintances struggled that people wanted to come to this country, want to stay, not that the perspectives wanted to go. It's the country I dream of, it's the country I want to fight for. That's what's important to do. But many are not offered that on a ready tray, they can return to the Republic of Croatia as a precedent. Some still need to earn it by their work, not by compromise. And what's the problem, which today our Prime Minister is making compromises with different interesting currents, and these interesting currents are not seen by Croats in the Republic of Croatia. And where will the Croats see in the diaspora?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54010	The next replica of distinguished MPs Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54011	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Petrov, I think I have a lot to say on this subject, unfortunately from my personal and very sad experience, and I'm saying this primarily because I want all parliamentary representatives to hear me and keep this in mind every time before the vote is up. I don't know if you know what it's like to see a father who's a first-to-last-day volunteer of the Homeland War, who didn't want to hear about the retirement or the infatuation of anyone in the family after the war. Imagine what it's like to look at a person like that when both your kids are the only one, me and your brother, after college, we're forced to look for a job out of state. I'm back. But my little brother didn't. He went to Austria as a master of construction from the Croatian university with the award of the best graduate work in the entire country. In Austria, he received a job, accommodation, doctorate, in the last year he spent almost every month on training in America and Canada. Do you know when the terms would get you in Croatia? Well, he'd be on the desk just like he was. To make things worse, he's getting married soon. And he's taking his wife to Austria with him. So there goes another family. And you know what's most painful of all that? To look into the eyes of the man who left his youth for this country. Whose son this country took away his father, and now he's taking his son away from his father. Do you know what it's like? You who have done all this, do you know what it's like to look into that man's eyes and see that fight between tears and screaming that he successfully hides at every moment his son comes to his backyard family house, parks the car of Austrian registrations, because he knows that his son is becoming a stranger. He's becoming Austrian. And they won't come back because of you, because of you, keep that in mind every time before the vote, because the only one of us here can change that. And I'd be happy if it were just my family, but there are hundreds of thousands of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54012	It's not an answer, but something will say about it, dear representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54013	I don't know what the answer is. If not the answer, should we change or implement judicial reform, the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54014	You misunderstood me, it's not an answer because it wasn't a question, but in that sense... Sure, go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54015	In order to do so, we should reform the judiciary, the judiciary, the financial policy, the public administrations all conditions, so that this country is tempting, so that this country allows people to live in it in quality. What I don't care what happened in the last 20 years? Which was done the moment we tried to do it in the last 1.5 years. And that is why it is very difficult, and I hope that other people were in this assembly as difficult as it was for me to listen to her example. This is her example. This is not an example of a person there in Croatia. This is her personal example. I hope you've had at least part of the pain, how sick I was when I listened to this. And if things got together like this, then you could hope that things would change and that the priorities would agree the way she said. If reforms were implemented in Croatia, if Croatia were better, and I believe it will be better, regardless of all the resistance that is being shown, because your time has changed, trains are passing. And you need to be aware of that. Time will change things. I was just hoping you'd be the one to participate. But they'll show up younger and only when they change will we be able to respond to these challenges and this is how things have to be changed. Not that the father takes his child out, but that the father welcomes his child back. That's what we should be trying to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54016	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54017	My colleague Petrov, you were talking about... The Croats in BiH and recognized it as one of, one of the important ones, which is the change of the election law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to highlight one more thing that is very important and this is the lack of public media in the Croatian language in BiH. It seems to me that the issue has been neglected and the government does not seem enough to deal with the problem bilaterally. Perhaps more scandalous than that, the fact that Croats in emigration cannot freely monitor HRT on TV in 2017, or via the Internet, despite technological progress and the mass charging of the performances for generations of Croats, makes it impossible to watch freely in Croatian language. HRT decided to stay in the last century and keep the coded programs, and almost no serious national broadcasting does even those in our neighborhood, forbidden... in Croatian, sports and cultural programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there is nothing left for young Croats but to forget Croatian and to assimilate abroad. If anything is the identity of the Croatian people in BiH, that means language. Both the government of the Republic of Croatia and the HRT as a public service has the obligation to provide the Croats in BiH with the possibility of monitoring the programme that citizens are paying for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54018	You must understand that at the moment I speak I do not criticise the Office of Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia because at the very beginning of the speech I said I support the work but can not work if the Government does not give a clear direction, goal, vision. Unfortunately, the government uses the office as its makeup. And don't be angry when I listen and greet the decision to introduce the 5th channel and when I listen to the question, tell us a little bit more about that 5th channel, don't be angry when I say I don't trust you until I see it. I want it to happen, I think it's important that it happens. I want it to happen as soon as possible because right now in my opinion the traitor message sent to the Croats in BiH is for the Croats to turn to Sarajevo. And that day works today. The day today is working because certain things have been lifted for you in the meantime, the possibility of transfer has been abolished and everything since HRT watched them make the cost savings, coded programs and all of what Representative Bulj was talking about. I'll just do it one more time, don't forget them, don't leave them, 'cause they'll come around your head and what Representative Bulj was talking about, I'll just tell you in the end. A people without a tongue is not a people. Try to enable him to gain and preserve his tongue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54019	The next replica is the esteemed representative Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54020	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I've reported. We wouldn't just be replicating the members of the Most. Of course, I welcome in fact this positive attitude of the president of Most towards the Croatian issue of Croats outside Croatia, especially Croats in BiH. And I want to say here, of course, that Croatia helped even before the Central State Office was established, thanks to this colleague Petrov and I had the opportunity to hang out some 15 years ago as a professor, he as a student and today we are here together, I hope on the same task when Croats are outside BiH. On the other hand, I welcome, of course, the position of the MOST on the solution of the Croatian issue in BiH, primarily through amendments to the Election Law and which will allow Croats in BiH to choose legitimate representatives in the Constitution for legitimate representation, these are in the first row of the House of Peoples and the Presidency. And thanks to my being immodest, just when I was chairman of the House of Representatives and when I launched a request to the Constitutional Court which the Constitutional Court accepted, we are today in a position to realise and of course we will need support and Croatia, that is, when I say Croatia, then I say to all, the entire political spectrum from the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I also fully agree with the solution of the Croatian issue through a solution to the principles of federalism... Presentations that will allow Croats in BiH to be recognized in territorial terms as other two peoples, but also that through institutional equality every Croat living in any part of BiH is protected by its constitutionality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, what I cannot agree with is these objections to the government but of course the opposition is expected to attack the government. But the very fact that counterpart Petrov supports the government's office indirectly said he also supports the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54021	Thank you for the response of the esteemed representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54022	My colleague Ljubic, I am pleased to agree on what should be done and we have been together on several occasions on this matter. I am pleased that we share the same views and that we both estimate that Croats are a constituent people for whom we are obliged to care. What I disagree with, I disagree with 20 years of Republic of Croatia's relationship with that people. And don't be angry if I tell you that your party is partly responsible for that relationship, because I'll remind you. After a diplomatic trip to the BIH, I asked the representatives of the Clubs and HDZ and the SDP to draw their conclusions, to speak to both the Prime Minister and the president of the state immediately, according to these conclusions. Let's have a thematic session in the Assembly on the state and situation of Croats in the BIH. You know what's done? It's almost nothing. As far as I know, the Committee on Foreign Policy has been discussing on the basis of the points and conclusions we had on the official path. Everything else is nothing, like nothing for the last 20 years. And I'm glad we agree, but other than those stories, people have nothing to gain. I agree that the Croatian office, giving opportunity and giving different projects, are not concrete goals, are not clear goals. I spent my 18th to 36th year in BIH, studying, working. I know and I feel them. You know how they feel? It's left. For they hear stories; they see no deeds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54023	Thank you very much. Now he will receive the word on behalf of the motionary, the distinguished Secretary of State Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, just a few things. He would refer to what Mr. Petrov was saying. So, on what the government of the Republic of Croatia is doing for the Croatian people in the BIH, I think the most clearly speaking is a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers held, after not knowing how many years, at which it is clearly said what the Government of the Republic of Croatia thinks about the electoral law. On which it is clearly said that this is a key issue, i.e. a key problem for the Croatian people in BIH, on which it is clearly said that the Pelješki bridge will be built on Croatian territory. In which it is clearly said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the European pathway of the BiH. All arrivals of the diameter of Andrej Plenkovic, I mentioned for 7 years I have been aiming to support BIH on this trip and support the Croatian people in BIH. You said yourself that as president of the Parliament, you were in the BiH. You've heard the problems, you've heard the situation, in what everyday life, what inequality they live in, and my question is, if I may ask him from this place, did anything really happen after your trip? Or we all have to figure out what we're doing together, so politics and all that we have towards the BiH. Furthermore, I am sorry that there is no young colleague Ninčević, if I remember correctly. I personally and know my father very well, he's an extremely honorable and honest man. And I'm sorry things happen the way they do to her brother. But I will highlight a number of other examples, which does not justify this return of young, successful people like Ivo Tolic who has received an Oscar for science. I will also be modest now, and I will mention it to my son, who lost his mother, who went out to study too, because they recognized him as a good student, but came back to Croatia and lives in Croatia today. Not thanks to me, but thanks to yourself and your ability. So there's opportunities, there's potential. It's up to all of us together not to transfer our inaction over the past 20 years. I personally don't think I made a trip to Croatia, and believe me, I've been through the Homeland War and everything else a lot and my whole family. But it's not my idea to honor it for anyone else, as I know Mrs. Strenja Linic has been through it. So let's try this issue about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, look for consensus at all possible common positions that will contribute both to cooperation and to restoring trust and all that was once so strongly expressed 25 years ago. Because without Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, there is no whole Croatia, so only together can we be whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54025	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas again. He's the first to represent the God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54026	If you'll remember my presentations, then at no time did I challenge the office. And what I was saying was a lack of vision and a clear goal and a strategy of the Republic of Croatia towards diaspora. And now I'm going to ask you openly. Is after seven times the departure of Andrej Plenkovic to BIH and after my applications and after the official trip, to do exactly what you said to be done. Did anything happen? Do we have a clear strategy, do we have concrete goals? Do we have concrete procedures for each of these goals? Do we have a wide picture and do we have everything clear to do? My criticism is not for the things to be divided. My criticism is an invitation to act. And I don't think we should be angry. Other MPs who made up that part of the policy. And I don't dispute the good things that have been done. I just want to say that Croats, especially in the BiH, given their situation or their position today, everything you've been talking about, have no time. And that's what matters. And as for our colleague and our example, you cannot say that the example is not shaken. And the other thing is, is all of them now, not making sure it's a colleague of Ninčević, is it a colleague of Strenja Linić, you or someone else here from this hall or anywhere from Croatia. Did they all have the same conditions? Did they all have the same options? I want you to give everyone absolutely the same starting positions. And we can do that by changing the situation in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54027	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54028	I agree with this at the end of what you said, all equal opportunities. What were the possibilities 25 years ago? Of course we didn't all have equal opportunities. I'm sure we didn't. I'm sure you were a young man back then, I don't know how old you were, I guess very young. Surely some of us lived at that time under conditions that are better off not speaking. But the fact is that this is where we all wanted Croatia together. So it was created, as must be said, in the blood of Croatian defenders, but at the will of the Croatian people, by consensus. But I think we can really achieve this consensus today without our daily political legitimate parties in order to say ramoilable, but when it comes to Croats from the Republic of Croatia, I agree that criticism is necessary, constructive, but consensus must exist. Otherwise there'll never be cooperation and the way it's supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54029	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54030	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, today is Mostar City of Youth. And if the government of the Republic of Croatia, seven years ago with its initiative and insistence, had not made the first phase of campus in Mostar, today those youngsters studying in Mostar would not have studied. There's one more thing. It's the only university in BIH, everything else is universities. That campus doesn't cost a million kuna. The hospital in Mostar, too. The reconstruction that was suspended in 2010 for Bosnia's Posavina remains, everything is set aside from the state budget, I will not add any further. I'd just like to say that the problem of Croats in BIH, I think I have the legitimate right to say that, because my tailors are from the valley and my Livno is practically empty. Today it's in Livno situation like it was in the '60s. Young people are leaving today, but they're leaving with a whole family. Women and children used to stay and come back... But you can't say that the campus in Mostar is not the nucleus around which Croats should gather, young people gather. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they study in Mostar, they will stay working, live in BiH. And that campus in BIH was the first phase made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it is necessary to look and find opportunities to create a second phase. And not to mention the Homeland War, the defenses, etc. There's always more to be done, there's always bad things that can be fixed, only if you keep saying that nothing's done is impossible to fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54031	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure before the Honorable Secretary of State answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54032	Infringement of Article 238, the demeaning of representatives. I will now play the Rules of Procedure as you played it and we would ask the chairman, if it's not a problem, since he allowed his colleague Shuker to allow me to do the same. You disrespected me because you thought I didn't know the Rules of Procedure, so you took the opportunity to replicate to the gentleman, and you recycled to me, so you'll give me the opportunity to just say it. I'll repeat the sentence, here I repeat it to the gentleman, I'm not reducing everything that's been done and it's supposed to be done, but I'll say it could've been done 10 times more, and I expect all of us to do it together 10 times more, and to do it, it has a concrete strategy, goal and procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54033	Let's all agree not to use, or abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54034	Article 238, then, I did not mention my colleague, Petrov, in one word. Not in one word, but if a colleague of Petrov thinks he's going to write what we're going to say, it's a delusion. I'm in this high house I only speak with arguments, I just wanted to support what the head of the state office for Croatians outside Croatia said, I wanted to back it up, not reducing the discussion of fellow Petrova and having no intention of discussing it with them at all. [[Okay, let's not.]] Because if I wanted to argue with him, I'd call him for a line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54035	I estimate that neither of them is a breach of the rules of procedure. Let's let the Secretary of State answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're right, Mr. Schucker, when you talk about institutions, Mostar, the university, so campus. So that's exactly one of the primary goals. Strengthening capacity, so young people, in a way of scholarship, we raise the constant number of scholarships, to give people the opportunity to stay where they were born, acquire skills, knowledge that will contribute to the real prosperity of life, everyday life in those areas. I see we've been focusing on the BIH, and I get that. It's a priority, it's a primary goal and a goal and a task, and I really think that as far as I'm concerned, we all think the same thing, that it's clear to all of us that Croats as a constituent people must... that their equality which is now mild to say questionable, must become what it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, the electoral law, a key question at this point for our people, but I'm sorry we don't go any further, which we don't go a little further across the ocean, which we don't think about being with a million and 200 thousand people of Croatian origin living on the North American continent. Half a million live in South American. Now I've been to Australia, it's estimated that 300,000 lives there too, so that's our people, and we have to think the same way we're going to keep that people from assimilation, from completely losing their identity. I hope that there will be opportunities next year, we will talk, I think that a lot of what we planned in 2016 managed to realize and implement or at least run and I think we can all do a lot, a lot of things together, I say about our, popularly said, diaspora, although Croats outside the Republic don't like that word. They are Croatian who currently live in the Republic of Croatia and should be called that. So I really expect this House of the High on the subject of Croats, our countrymen, to reach a consensus on all the crucial issues that concern their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54037	Thank you. The next replica is esteemed Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54038	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It's a good thing you're sorry about my example, but it's not good that you compare it to a number of positive examples because there's no number of positive examples, how negative it is. We count negative in hundreds of thousands. For a man to solve a problem, he must first face it. So you simply have to face the fact that we have hundreds of thousands of negative examples. I want you to do good things, I want us all to do good things here. Because it's not about my brother, it's about hundreds of thousands of people's children. Hundreds of thousands of Croats. That's what this is about. If we don't see it, then we can all go home. We have to solve this problem. Here's how you and how are going to get people like my brother who have such conditions out there, how are you going to get them back to Croatia and give them these same conditions here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54039	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54040	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ninčević, you've probably heard, so I know your father, and I know everything you've said, it all stands. An extremely good, honorable and honest man, a volunteer. You're right, a lot of young people have left the Republic of Croatia. Many young Croats have left BiH. The cause must be multilayered. How are we gonna get them back? So just so that, what I'm saying now, we all find consensus together in some things that matter, not just for the return of Croats, so it's no longer the departure of Croats to Austria or I don't know, in North America grief and pain like 50, 60 years ago. Today we live in a different time, technology is where it is. Today, people live on three continents. I personally know the circumstances through the work that I do, I've met people who live in Croatia for four months, four months in Australia, four months living in children, and I don't know where. So we just need, not only do we have to finally open everything that Croatia has, economic potential, without it there is no return, but there is no awakening of desire in someone to come to Croatia, to start investments, which means opening jobs, which means staying people who live here. It's just like that, the equal opportunities will be the moment when there's enough work for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54041	Thank you. The next replica, the respected representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54042	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milas, as always, your discussions are calm, reasoned, and I have no objection regarding only your report and what you have defended. But let's go back to this part again, which is the departure of young people from the Republic of Croatia, not just young people, the departure of many people from the Republic of Croatia and the desire for people to return, those who have been back for a long time. And now that we call it a deficit, if he were a kid, that wouldn't be a problem. It means that the present generations are leaving, that those who have gained experience, capital, if they come back, then that wouldn't be a problem. However, what is the problem and of course is not just this government now, but this government is currently responsible. And we have to criticise this government's move because as long as there's corruption, clientism, nepotism, as long as people don't believe in this country, you know, people are leaving because of existential things and people say a lot of them say I don't see a vision anymore, I don't see a way out of this situation. I can't take this anymore, because when he sees that he couldn't get a job, he's got a job for someone who's less capable, just because he has a party card. Every government must fight against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54043	Comrade Sagar, this replica of yours has nothing to do with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, excuse me, please focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54044	You mean they're still on the bus and they didn't get out?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54045	Let's concentrate on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54046	Okay. You said, Mr. Miles, that the economy is the one that will open up the jobs it will provide. We're getting 35 billion kunas through public procurement. 35 billion kunas simply by math maybe... provide 250 thousand jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nobody cares about controlling it. Everybody's got a real little hump, nobody's jurisdiction. Then take the land, a million and some acres of land. How many people should work on that land?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54047	The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54048	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Sagar, I don't want to have to pause to defend the flossules of this government, nor do I want to talk about any government. I'm doing the job I'm doing, I'm sure what I'm doing is not primarily stopping young people, so I think that this High House is also, first of all, because of that, that the laws that it's going to pass, allow exactly what we're saying to open up potential. The opening of the economy. Corruption and everything else we can talk about, there is definitely. But if one government exists for a year and if I don't know how GDP goes, so let's give these people a chance, let's try to criticize them constructively, let's try to look for what they're not doing well, but let's give them what's right, let's push them in that direction to go. Let's just give people a chance to do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54049	And the last replica is the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54050	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Miles. You said we need a consensus on the issue of Croats in BiH, not only in BiH but everywhere in the world where there are Croats, we must take care of them. The impression is that we are not taking enough care in BiH because the return of Croats to Bosnia's Posavin is going too slow, especially the restoration of their houses. And my question is whether this is where more generous funding is planned and to speed up those construction deadlines and the return of Croats to Bosnia's Posavin who want to go back there. And the impression is that there the Catholic Church and Bishop Komarica did more than the Croatian state itself and, of course, our fellow Croatians outside Croatia and from Croatia contributed to the restoration of churches and sacral objects. And there was made one step even though the government of the Republic of Croatia could show more about it. What I also want, you also said BiH's path to the EU, of course it should be supported but I have been there several times and we have worked to help our entrepreneurs, craftsmen in this area to write EU projects how much your office and government have done on this plan and what strategy is in that direction because people there want to stay, they want to do some kind of production but they themselves don't know who to address. It is also important to highlight the preservation of the Croatian written word outside Croatia, our Croatians from Vojvodina often come to meet poets in Rešetare near Nova Gradiška. And I'm sad to hear from them that they don't have the money to publish a collection of songs in Croatian in Vojvodina, Serbia doesn't give them any help. I think Croatia must do more to keep a single song written in Croatian to be published in Vojvodina in order to preserve the Croatian language there. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54051	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54052	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, you have repeatedly mentioned that you have an impression, which means you have no facts. The impression is not lived, the impression is difficult to discuss, the impression is something, the impression of something. And here's exactly what you mentioned, the Central Office has repeatedly assisted the collection of poets of Croatian origin in the Rešetars and will continue to do so. I appreciate everything Bishop Komarica does, in my report I have highlighted particularly good cooperation and connection with the Catholic Church, with Catholic missions all over the world, with the Croatian Foreign Past, so we absolutely cooperate in everything. We're even coordinating because of this measure to suggest where the points are to be helped, where what's burning is where we need to be. So I think it's never gonna be good enough but it's just like you say it's not enough, but it makes sense and it goes forward believe me that. So here we can meet and meet, you can come to my office whenever you have time, it'll be an honor, I can show you everything that's been done and what's been done over the past year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54053	Thank you. Now we're going to the next clubs. So it is the HDZ Representatives' Club in the name of which the distinguished representative Bozo Ljubic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54054	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Central State Office, Mr. Secretary of State Milas and Mrs. Perkusic. Before us is the Annual Report prepared by the Central State Office for Relations of the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia. The report is in a very informative way, in a transparent way informs the Committee of activities and spending programmes implemented by the office or coordinated by the office. We can see from the test report in particular from the table of contributions that the funds are committed in accordance with the Croatian budget as well as according to the priorities in one balanced manner, respecting the provisions and strategies of the Law on relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and taking care of the 3 basic categories of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia: Croats in BiH who are a constituent people in BiH, neighbouring, Croatian indigenous minorities in neighbouring and other European countries, as well as Croatian diaspora in both the European countries. Of course, we would all love but certainly also representatives of the office and government if it were possible to meet all the requirements, but limited resources are as much as they are and I think they are realised in a very rational and effective way. But one more fact needs to be pointed out here. Although the office was established in 2012 by the basis of the Law adopted in 2011 although Article 15 of this Law provides for the Office to give an annual report to the Parliament, as far as I know, so this is the first report the Government submits to the Croatian Parliament. At least this time, it is appropriate to ask the question why it was not of interest between 2012 and 2015. This question should primarily be asked to the parliamentary majority at the time, not to the office which, then, worked in accordance with the law. So it's almost 4 million of our countrymen living outside the border of the Republic of Croatia. Our countrymen who have made a decisive contribution to the establishment of democracy and defense of our common homeland. Our compatriots, who still today bring about 2 billion dollars a year to the money from abroad. Our compatriots in BiH who were there created and constitutive people and thanks to which there was never any danger of Croatia being cut off somewhere where the Croats from BiH lived on the border of Croatia all the way to Dubrovnik and to Split and the north. However, it would be useless today to seek answers to this question. We need to find answers today how best to valorise the huge potential that Croats outside Croatia possess for their own and common homeland. The role of the Croatian Parliament is much wider than the role of a state office and includes all the potentials of the Republic, all levels of government from municipalities, cities, through counties to the Government, the Parliament and the Office of Presidents, or the President of the Republic. Our role here is to consider the extent to which the obligations of the Republic of Croatia adopted in the Strategy and the Law are fulfilled, according to all Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. This time, it is instructed to remember, in addition to the central state office and the other holders of relations and cooperation referred to in Article 16 of the Law. Council of the Republic of Croatia for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, ministries responsible for foreign affairs, internal affairs, science, education, sport, culture, economy, entrepreneurship, work and pension system, health, social care, tourism, regional development, finance, Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, which I have the honour of chairing, Croatian queen of emigrants and other bodies who in their part have jobs related to relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and because their activity could be of interest to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Not now entering all obligations to which the Republic of Croatia undertakes Article 10. The constitution, which states that the Republic of Croatia guarantees special care and protection to parts of the Croatian people in other countries and which are mildly said to be ignored differently from period to period. They want to focus only on part of the obligations arising from the strategy and the law that are only partially realised. I would like to point out once again that this does not apply to the obligations of the central state office and at least to the period of 2016 when, to repeat, the obligations of the central state office have been executed in an appropriate manner. Let's start with the strategy. I quote, Croats in BiH. The Republic of Croatia is concerned about the preservation of the constitutional position of Croats in BiH. It will pay particular attention to the implementation of existing international agreements as well as to the conclusion of new and all for the purpose of the survival and protection of the Croatian people in BiH. The International Peace Agreement, both Washington and Dayton, was brutally violated at the expense of Croats in 2000 by interventions in the election law of the then-led head of the OSCE, Robert Barry's mission, and in 2002 it was imposed on the amendments of High Representative Petric, then neither the government nor the president did anything. By their silence, however, they approved the deconstituting of Croats in BiH. The consequences are known or should at least be known to the Croatian public, the two-term election of Croatian presidency members is by Bosniaks and a loyal Bosniak politics. The election of the president and members of the Federation government in all terms, without Croatian electoral legitimacy and as regards Republika Srpska entities, they had no legal representation before or after these interventions. Transponing of funds created by people and companies in Croatian majority areas into the centre and their selective redistribution to other areas and usurping the availability of space and natural resources. Since we are discussing the 2016 report, I am pleased to expire and welcome the new activation and new paradigm of relations with the Croatian issue of BiH by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who has been in BiH seven times in the last year for a reason and with the results, and President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who comes across the general approval of the legitimate representatives of the Croats in BiH but also in general the Croatian people in BiH also to the negative reactions of those who would retain... over the Croatian people in BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be the words when I hope soon, on the Parliament's agenda, it will be the agenda that will address the Croatian people's position in BiH, and BiH as the most important neighbour of Croatia. Furthermore, the strategy deals with the care of Croatian minorities in neighbouring and other European countries. Although the Republic of Croatia has resolved the issue of its own national minorities in an appropriate European and civilization way, the position of minorities in neighbouring countries is not even that far away. Even interstate agreements are not respected. The position of the Croatian minority in Serbia is not satisfactorily resolved. Even an interstate agreement signed between Croatia and the then Serbia-Montenegro community in 2004 is not realised. We are witnessing various violations of the agreement, both in the field of political representation in local, regional and state bodies, in the field of education and information, employment until the fosterment by the official authorities of Serbia of the declaration of Croatian entity communities, Croatians of rebels, Croats of shockers for indigenous national minorities, trying in an artificial manner to reduce the number of Croats in Serbia who, every ten years, are reduced by about 10 thousand, which is about 20% every 10 years. If we take back the last census as a basis. As a result, the number of Croats in Serbia has declined from some 250 thousand in the last century to some 57,000 in the last 2011 census. In doing so, only during the massive Serbian aggression, or the Homeland Defence War in Croatia and Serbia, about 40,000 Croats disappeared. It is not known to me that in so many percent the number of nations in one country where there was no war, on whose territory there was no war. Let me just briefly list what it takes for Croatia to come to terms with the Croatian minority in Serbia in accordance with the signed agreement, national legislation and international conventions. First exercise of minority rights in the field of education. The legal obligation of the Republic of Serbia is not respected or only partially respected. Neither the obligations of the interstate agreement are respected with regard to the printing of textbooks in Croatian or as a temporary measure of imports of textbooks from the Republic of Croatia. Solutions of the working legal status of Croatian language teachers from the Republic of Croatia. The representation of the Croatian community in all state authorities and in public institutions, businesses and other institutions, particularly the representation of Croats in the Serbian Assembly on the basis of Article 9. Agreement on the protection of minority rights, which agreed on the direct representation of Croats in the Serbian and Autonomous province of Vojvodina and the representative executive bodies of local communities. There is a sphere of information, etc. In Slovenia, although Croatians are indigenous and historical people, they are not at all recognised as a national minority unlike Slovenians in Croatia. In Macedonia, the Croatian national minority also does not have the right to represent in Sober either at regional or municipal level. An analysis of the content of the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Italian Republic on the protection of minorities signed in 1996 shows that much more attention is paid to the Italian minority in Croatia than to the Croatian minority in the Italian Republic. The agreement recognises the existence of Croats in the region of Molise, but part of Croats living in the northeastern part of Italy in the province... the status of an ethical minority has not been recognised despite the fact that they fulfil all the conditions under both Italian legislation and international documents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The above art.521 of the strategy concerns how the Republic of Croatia... Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizenship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the fact that, for several years, procedures have taken place in cases that should in no way be disputed. The strategy also states that will be introduced... Croatian peoples without Croatian citizenship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth in the law in the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, in art. The 37rd-43th talk of Croats without Croatian citizenship and all the benefits they should achieve... Strangers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it mostly cares, and no relevant regulations have been passed, which would allow Croats without Croatian citizenship to enjoy these benefits in relation to entry, stay, employment, education, etc. Even until recently in the Foreign Law, they were completely equal with foreigners, since it was art.2. Paragraph 1 reads, a foreigner is a person who is not a Croatian citizen. It took a lot of effort to build into the law an amendment that makes a distinction between Croats without Croatian citizenship and other foreigners, and I must accept it as chairman of the board thanks to the consensual position of all members of the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and all parties, and thanks to the understanding of the Ministry of Interior and Government, we have succeeded in installing that provision into the law. It is now within the jurisdiction of several ministries and institutions to operate through other laws and sublaws. Furthermore, the obligation and strategy on the involvement of Croatian representatives outside the Republic of Croatia in the HRT programme council of obligations referred to in Article 10. And 11. Law on the declaration of the day of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, granting special recognitions for contributions, strengthening relations and cooperation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, etc. Liabilities referred to in Article 49. They see the foundation of a documentary centre and museum on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Obligations under Art. 54th as regards the establishment of a guarantee fund for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, returnees and immigrants to the Republic of Croatia, as well as for the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises for projects in the BIH that allow the survival of Croats in the BIH. So there's still a lot of work ahead of all of us, to full implementation, strategies and laws. When we analyse the central state office's report including the table in the annexes, the most funds are shown to support Croats in the BIH. That help was precious. In the development of education, education, service institutions, and certainly defined a large no. The Croats to stay on their hearths who would without it be afraid to move out. However, this type of support would rather be an appropriate part of a nation living as a national minority in a country. It's one truly modern and constitutive people that the Croats in BIH should be. However, why this is not the case, it should be a fruit, i.e. the topic of debate at the plenary assembly soon if all the clubs agree on it, and listening to today's debates by colleagues from the Bridge and some others, it seems to me that we can reach such a consensus. Finally, the issue that bothers all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia concerns constitutional law in the election process. All members of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, an ultimate increase in the number of mandates for Croats outside Croatia, and a dignified way of achieving that right, primarily by introducing a letter and electronic vote. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club supports this report, and the parliamentary majority led by it will continue to implement the obligations and strategies of the law by amending and supplementing the relevant legislation and further upgrading of institutional infrastructure in relation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54055	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54056	Dear colleague Ljubic I suppose you know, you who do not know in the Parliament, I was born in central Bosnia in the village of Vuka Gora near Tranik, where I graduated from elementary and high school and I love my Bosnia. Reports are like reports. The strategies are, you were talking about strategy. If there is a strategy, and Croatia has no strategy, no foreign policy, and neither according to the diaspora, and this morning, General Glasovic spoke correctly and fiercely, then the Croats are moving out of there and out of here, so this strategy is not good. I don't have much time to argue, I'd say you'd be drawing one line for a while. During the war, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Posavina were apparently agreed to be emptied in some negotiations. This nation was defended by the Croats, and they were practically, so strong, so confident that they didn't need anyone. They don't need to be bothered. What I said to myself, why I was from central Bosnia, when I look at the little representation of the people of the Croats from central Bosnia, Posavina, they are gone, here and there in the bodies that you mention. Well, let's hear it, too. Don't make the Croatian Office outside Croatia a comfort office for Croats outside Croatia. Don't make fun of politicians, it's a message to people from the top of the state, to go, to go around Sarajevo a little bit, Mostar, to eat kevapa, to go round and say goodbye. Since I know a lot of situations and opportunities there, I call for a meaningful conversation. I call on half your office to move to the BIH field work, work with people so they don't become a comfort office.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54057	Thank you. You're not projecting the secretary of state to the soul, you're projecting my colleague Ljubic, but here, he's going to answer something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54058	You said you loved Bosnia and of course you loved Bosnia, you were born in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I love Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as the strategy is concerned, I think we have a good strategy, that with relations The problem of the last 5.6 years has been in the first order of implementation or operationalisation of the strategy, so here, as you could believe from my presentation, my whole exposure has been focused on how to operate that strategy. As far as the issue of Central Bosnia is concerned, in fact, I fully agree with you that the medium Bosnia area is crucial for the survival of Croats in BiH as a constituent people and it is not by chance that this area was a target so to say, during the work, the representative of the BiH Army, to be cleaned from Croats and thus the Croats only descend to the area along the border of the Republic of Croatia, western Herzegovina and precisely the party whose policy I belong to, I am currently telling colleagues who have previously replicated, I am not a member of any party formally. But of course, HDZ is my commitment. So this policy has actually done everything to ensure that Croats defend themselves and survive in central Bosnia, and this is today, regardless of having experienced one depopulation as well as all parts of BiH and Croatia, perhaps the most economically vital part of the Croatian people in BiH, and this has not come from itself, it is also part of politics and Croatians in BiH and politics in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54059	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54060	I think my colleague Stier was before, but it doesn't matter. Col. Ljubic, you mentioned in one part of the speech that Croats outside Croatia were struggling to establish democracy and also the market economy in Croatia and I will tell you, you probably don't know who Esteban Torbar is. So it is a second generation Croat, a wealthy Croat who lives next to Venezuela and fights even in Venezuela for the same, so to maintain democracy and the market economy. I think that on today, except maybe North Korea, in fact, surely North Korea probably has no more dangerous place in the world to fight for the maintenance of democracy and the establishment of a market economy that quacks there. So, I think we should, with all this being said, set up a slightly more individual approach unless we're afraid of rich successful Croats, such as there are, I know a few of them, there are dozens of them, dozens of them around the world, North America, South America, Australia. Some are known in Croatia, some are unknown, well known and successful in their environments. I also think that there is insufficient talk about exploiting this potential, so economic potential in cooperation with all these people, with Croats outside Croatia, so not only in terms of valorising this potential, but in real action to do so. And I'm going to say one more thing, I think that just moved Croatia represents the greatest demographic and economic potential on today's days that we have, if we want to move as quickly as possible, to move forward more effectively and to catch up with highly developed, not just EU countries. But of course, in order for him to do anything, do in Croatia and work with us, I think that we will have to change a little faster than it is... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54061	Dear Representative Ljubic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54062	Dear fellow Milosevic, in the scope of my presentation, I actually touched the economic aspect of our diaspora as much as I could and how long it allowed. However, today, in fact, this new paradigm of Croatia's relations with the Croatians of the Republic of Croatia should therefore be built on that platform because what I once and somewhere have said, hence the potential of the Croatian diaspora in the world, is not even recognized from far away, let alone used. Let's take just one aspect, the capital that has the Croatian diaspora and you said, mentioning some of our businessmen is threefold more valuable than any capital that Croatia can come to. First, if the Croat from the diaspora invests here, it's unambiguous capital. Secondly, this capital monitors the knowledge acquired in the economies of the most developed countries in the world. Canada, America, Europe etc. And thirdly, he carries in himself love for Croatia, for his country. Therefore, Croatia must take advantage, but not all Croats outside Croatia are equally rich, so we must actually absorb and attract people outside Croatia here. And those who, therefore, have earned their pensions with severe torment and today, on the basis of double taxation, they reject Croatia and return to the country and thus their descendants who then remain in those countries. So there are Croats who could not actually manage in this world but who also have their descendants, etc., and that is why I say what is well written in the strategy, so setting up conditions for micro-credit, establishing a guarantee fund, so these are all things that do not concern the jurisdiction of the central state office and concerning the other institutions of the Republic of Croatia, the Government, the Ministry of Finance, HBOR etc. So these institutions must now enter this space that has not been covered so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54063	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Ljubic, three mere notes in my replica. One that concerns all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia regardless of whether they are Croats in BiH as a constituent people, whether they are Croats who are members or national minorities in other countries in Europe or are Croatian emigrants, which is the issue you mentioned, a correspondence vote. So there will indeed prove not only to be a declarative whether we really want to have an open approach to rema Croats outside the Republic of Croatia or we will really do something concrete, and this is, in my opinion, one of the more concrete measures that will require, of course, political decision and political will, so I would once again support it on my part, but I would stress that it is not enough to just mention it here, but it is indeed high time to introduce it. Another note regarding Croats in BIH and good co-operation mentioned by the secretary of state between the office and the foreign ministry, which is about co-operation with local self-government units and the Federation with the counties. And I think that's the way it has to be directed. And even connecting the county to the Federation of BIH and Croatian counties at that level and using European funds. And third, let us not forget that Croatian emigration is not only when money is given when the country needs it, but sometimes when our emigrants are in need, such as today's evicts in Venezuela, and I am glad that both the office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54065	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54066	Thank you, fellow Stier. So, the question of exercising the right to vote. So in this existing way, I say to the institutional legal framework about 4 million of our countrymen are discriminated against by the Constitution. Therefore, by the number of mandates and the opportunity to exercise that right of vote, and in any case, the correspondence vote is at least what we must do by the next elections. On the other hand, as far as the issues of our countrymen living in the BIH, who are I say a constituent people, at this point more on paper than true, and not at all, therefore in the existing constitutional and legislative framework. I am pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the proposal for a strategy for development and humanitarian assistance recognized this fact also in the proposal of this strategy on which there will be talks, I hope soon, is clearly pointed out in this House, to say the partnership, and the partnership implies that we have a partnership of neighbouring counties which, therefore, in the development paradigm should therefore be ensured, normal reproduction and economic and social and demographic of course in the BIH of interest for Croatia. And of course, that question that you mentioned at the end, our fellow countrymen, about the need. Of course, through this one replica I also pointed out, we have to take care of these people. Because the rest of us can help us more than we can help them, only if we're rightly accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54067	Thank you, too. Mr. Angel's Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54068	Comrade Ljubic, in your debate, you have set a series of examples that all the difficulties our countrymen face in neighbouring countries. I can even say you gave one examination. Among other things, you listed a specific set of examples that are being violated by all agreements. That is how you cited a breach of the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, which is almost not implemented by Serbia today. In your debate, you touched that he therefore did not hear that in Serbia 40,000 members of the Croatian minority were literally missing. It's the only such example in the world that in a country that wasn't affected by war, so many members of a group just disappear. You also noted that in Italy in certain regions, provinces there is no recognised status. Since I see that you are well aware of this problem, so perhaps you can suggest what it would be good to do to improve the status of our countrymen in neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54069	Answer Mr. Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, minorities should actually be the power to connect and co-operate states. However, as a colleague from the bench said, it is precisely in this area and is not appropriate so far. However, I think I was just specifically speaking about the position of the Croatian minority in Serbia. And we absolutely have the moral and civilizational right to demand that this issue be settled properly. That's not a question... Therefore, Croatia has resolved the issue of the Serb national minority here in an appropriate manner and has not asked that when the solution is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in this process, Croatia now has a pre-accession obligation and the possibility to impose the issue as a very important issue of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and even in the pre-accession process, at the very least, the obligations of the agreement between the state and the Republic of Serbia are realised. And that's what we expect, and that's something we need to get rid of. As for minority issues in other countries, I said when it comes to the position of the Croatian minority in Italy, the problem of recognising or recognising the minority in the province... but this is a question that really needs the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, the foreign ministry in the first place, to impose relations with neighbouring countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course, there are still questions, there are no questions resolved until the end in any other state, but I only mentioned some, which at this point impose obligations as institutions of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54071	Thank you very much. ... But most of all in Molly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54072	Dear fellow Ljubic, I'd just like to underline some of the topics from your speech. We first saw this when a delegation came here from Serbia, no one came from the opposition, no one came from minorities, so on. our raggedy, and it's terrifying that the media is not talking about this terror at all... in a part of Serbia-Montenegro where Croats are divided and there should be more work in the media area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, I'm talking about priorities all the time. One priority, of course, is Croats from the BiH, primarily, other Croats from the diaspora, nonstop, we repeat it here. And now what's going on, here's the complete information we don't have. We're in... With the trades of Croats from BiH hundreds of millions of euros, no one is talking about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those funds we've given are more refunded, quadruple, sixfold returned to what we invested there. I'd like to see more cooperation between the offices, committees and other ministries. For example. When Croatian companies go to BiH, to hire Croats, etc., the key issue of HVO. How, how many years since the war, these people have not even recognised that they have defended Croatian integrity, Croatian state, territorial integrity. He needs a confession, not just that, but equalizes all rights. They were under one command, one army, a single battlefield. Where's the action plan, second question. The first question is actually where is the action plan for the return of Croats back to Bosnia's Posavina,... such a plan, etc.. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When this red tape will end the biggest obstacle to Croatia, not just inert diplomacy, every honor to the individuals who have done something but no one can convince me that it is not a deliberate sabotage where you need 3 years for citizenship. What kind of residence? According to European laws, you can have more residences, some countries are not looking for a place of residence at all, etc., etc. And the biggest one here, the impediment is that bureaucrat with a seal worse than a Kalashnik terrorist, are your bureaucrats from the former system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54073	Answer Mr. Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54074	You asked Mr. Glasnović a lot of good questions, of course two minutes would be too little to answer. So I'll speak about the Republic of Serbia. I've already said something about that in response to my fellow uncle. However, it is absolutely unacceptable that the Republic of Serbia today is actually trying in a state-based way to reduce the number of Croats in the Republic of Serbia who, by the way, have been reduced and reduced 20% every 10 years, by pretending to say so by the ethnic Croatian minorities, the Bunjevacs, the Shockers into special national minorities and thus by giving them special benefits in order to plead so. So, of course, other rights concerning international conventions and international agreements must certainly be realised. As far as the rights of members of the HVO are concerned. So I'm a member of the HVO myself. I therefore see in the new law on Croatian defenders that these rights are existing recognised, that some are improved. Of course, I am also in my debate when we talked about this law, and I will point out that in the second reading, and perhaps even an amendment, it should be included in the definition of Croatian defenders in the least, members of the HVO fighting sector, even in the way that their rights will be fenced in special chapters as in this law. So from the symbolic importance and recognition of the contributions of members of the HVO, the defence to say so in the common land, and when I say common countries, then I mean the two states in BiH and Croatia must be so recognized and not say that there must be certain rights and... which is not possible... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54075	Thank you very much. Mr. Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. It is good to repeat and say that the Republic of Croatia has also enabled interstate co-operation and legal assistance in civil and criminal rights for citizens and criminal matters for BiH citizens and that the Interstate Agreement on, the Croatian Republic and BiH on cooperation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in BiH is the one that allowed the victims to be taken care of in the first place in 2006 and today is also trying to legally extend the right and possibility. And it should be made clear that certain rights have been disputed in the past, that they have been deleted from the records, units at the Ministry of Defence and that the great lawsuits that followed have caused some damage to the Republic of Croatia. Some are trying and caring for how to help and achieve interstate cooperation in helping and victims of the Homeland War and members of their families, others watch as if they had never existed. And these are things that we need to talk clearly about both you and the secretary of state as well as all those who have actually been humiliated in the past and who have not been able to use the rights that have been defined by an interstate agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54077	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54078	Col. Djakic, when you say it is therefore necessary for the Republic of Croatia to help the members of the HVO in BiH, in order to say facing criminal proceedings and the fact that it is embedded in the proposal for a new law, I would say finally. Because these people weren't just defending their home, their hearth, their homeland, BiH, they were actually defending the Republic of Croatia, and I said a few sentences about it, and also you who took part in the defense as defenders know that all the important operations that allowed "Storm" were actually launched from BiH and created conditions in collaboration with the HVO and, of course, should be seen as legitimate operations based on interstate agreements between the two states but also on the natural right to defend Croatia from the border areas where it was being attacked. As far as defence rights are concerned, unfortunately, the position of Croats in BiH is what it is, so we do not have in legal terms constitutionality and sovereignty as more than two other nations have in at least parts of BiH. and in any case we are in some things still dependent assistance from the Republic of Croatia and in fact this assistance is coming and it is precious. Sometimes a little later, but better ever than never.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54079	Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Zeljko Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54080	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ljubic, you have said that the consensus in the political life of the Republic of Croatia is a key assumption that better quality help is being given to the Croatian people in BIH. We have witnessed in two decades that this consensus was not in the political life of the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing that the holder of the most responsible responsibilities in the Republic of Croatia has been discredited and criminalised by Croats in the BiH. We are witnessing that in the Croatian Assembly, from a series of MPs, there was a similar relationship. And that they were actually repeated by the great propaganda, i.e. the forms of the great propaganda of the BISH and the Croats in the BIH. There was also a servant's relationship to Republika Srpska's leadership and a series of international addresses. I believe that such actions are behind us and that the time has matured for this political consensus in the Croatian Parliament which is a key assumption to help Croats in the BiH. It is good that today we also heard from representatives of different parties the emphasis on the need for this consensus. My question to you is, when did you, as president of the Assembly Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, launch an initiative to hold the thematic session of the Croatians in the BiH and when will it be held?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54081	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54082	I thank my colleague Raguž, of course I share your grades that you have said so far, and in my presentation I also mention a period and it was the beginning of this century, when it was actually legitimate and legal representatives of the Republic of Croatia were neither at the level of strategic national interests nor at the level of interest of Croats in the BIH. So, on the other hand, where I don't share until the end what you said. So, Croats in BIH, at this point are equally important for Croatia, such as Croatia for Croats in BIH. And therefore, we must achieve the necessary partnership in both strategic and other terms, in order to actually as a nation in this part of the globe to achieve our future. Therefore, in January 2017, the Committee on Croatians for the Republic of Croatia, which I chaired, sent a proposal to the President of the Croatian Parliament, was then Mr Bozo Petrov, and the request was the subject of holding a plenary thematic session of the Croatian Parliament that would deal with the issue of Croats in the BIH and in general Croatia's relationship to the BIH. So, in fact, at its first session of 10.11., the committee made such a decision. I'm sorry it wasn't on Parliament's agenda today. On the other hand, the committee, that is, here I am personally, as chairman of the board, preparing a document that should be the basis for this debate. And listening to some discussions today, I think we will come to a consensus on both the content of this document and the policy towards the BIH, on the Croatian issue of BIH. I, as chairman of the board, and I believe that all members of the board will come to such consensus and that the debate will result in the best recommendations from the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54083	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubic. We're continuing the club debate. Mr. Misic, please, on behalf of the Club Let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54085	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State Zvonko Milas, poisoned Ivana Perkovic, assistant. I thank you for your first report... The benches because I'm really grateful and happy here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is one other thing, respected Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, if you are looking at today's Parliament, imagine and see if it is possible, and it is possible that this left side has not given a replica to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Nor did she want to show herself about Croats outside Croatia. In fact, they don't want Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Here is only one proof of why Croats have problems all over the world because of the same ones sitting there who are not interested in this topic at all. And now I'm going to say a little bit about the work of our central office. The central office, the state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, in 2016 provided support and financed numerous infrastructure, scientific, health, education, cultural and other important projects, Croatian institutions and associations worldwide worth more than 40 million kuna. The Government of the Republic of Croatia decided in 2016 on the allocation of funds for the financing of cultural, educational, scientific, health and other projects in the interest of the Croatian people. In 2016 there is support for a total of 65 project programmes, all of them have a clear goal, improving the position of the Croatian people in BiH and in all areas of their lives. Support was seen to be geographically distributed across BiH's territory where the Croats live. Look, I'm not satisfied with that. Why? We must once get out of the relationship between local, regional and other parts. We Croats must watch the Croats throughout, whether they were in BiH, whether in Croatia or outside Croatia we should support and wherever they are. We should not look locally as the MOSTs saw when they appointed their four ministers from their Metkovic. It's a pure localist policy. What has the Croatian state done in education and science, as far as BiH is concerned? Supported the construction of the school in Banja Luka, Posje,... I will, Gruds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The funds have been provided for 4 school sports halls, Kresevo, Busovača, Tomislavgrad and Orashje. In health care, the work of Livno, Orasje, Novi Bilaj and 8 health homes has been assisted. I think it's pretty good. Culture, there is support for 8 cultural homes, 4 museums, 3 libraries as well as for the friendship gallery puppet theatre in Mostar and amateur theatre in Novi Travnik. Help the monastery in Guco Gora, my friend Lovrinović, Široki Brijeg, Mostar and Tuzla. Other areas, the opening of new jobs, for the first time in particular is support for the launch and production of agricultural cultures such as honey, mercy and others. Just fine. The student scholarship program, so in this year, last year was assigned... A scholarship for members of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, 100 scholarships for students studying in the Republic of Croatia, 305 scholarships for students studying in BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total amount of scholarships paid in 2016 is 3 million 143 thousand of which for scholarships of students studying in Croatia are 700 thousand, in BiH 244 thousand. In 2017, much higher funding was provided for the following year than 60 million 953 000. It is a significant improvement for our entire population outside Croatia. Now of some 60 and some projects that I'm not happy with? 60 and some projects in Neretva County and Bosnia-Herzegovina were given around 36 projects, approximately, if I counted well 27 or 26 in other meanings in BiH. With that I'm not a little happy, I know you've done a lot, I know that sometimes we can be regionalists, so look, so we'll give a little more to our own than to others. I can never agree to it, nor will I. I'm going to say a little bit about BiH as Bosnia because I come from that part of the world from the Brčan municipality of Dubrav, in the district of today's district where we didn't get anything that I wouldn't even rebel in that way and say why it wasn't because it's still a little richer part of the world. However, I can say that I am not satisfied that there was about 4 million in all of Bosnia's Pavina 2 million allocated there somewhere in Herzegovina or Neretva. I consider myself a man who lived in BiH that we BiH must look at the whole Croatian thing. Knowing who knew BiH in 1465, neither the Orthodox Church nor the Turks were in BiH. Then the Turks enter and then BiH and then the Catholic people of Croatia remain maginated, exorcised, tortured, persecuted. When there were least Croats in BiH during the Austrian wars, there were 170 thousand Croats left in BiH. Today before this war, we had about 700 thousand, about 500 thousand in Bosnia and that something in Herzegovina, about 150 thousand as far as I know. And now those 500 thousand Croats who have been expelled from war, whether the policy they are conducting by both Bosniaks and Serbs is not in a good position. And I wonder how we can help them from here. Since I am also Bosnian Posavina and I know 138 thousand Croats were expelled from Bosnia Posavina, by some estimates 5 thousand were returned. So far, I am personally not satisfied with the return or the policies that have been going on for the past 20 years. I'm not satisfied. Why? The richest part of BiH was the Bosnian Posavina. In Vienna, that's what Ambassador Vienna told me, there are 120,000 Croats in Vienna. Of those 120,000 80 grand from Bosnia's Posavina. I recently, in fact, held a conference in County last Saturday, cross-border cooperation between the Nuts and the Parish where I had 150 people in the hall, another 50 outside who couldn't stop, that was my initiative, and my one project is asking to build a walking bike bridge from the Parish to join the parish and the Oras. But here's the mayor of the county he doesn't have today he didn't support me, only he wasn't, all the mayors, the chiefs of government, they were all, but here's the mayor didn't support me, I'm sorry, that's his problem. If we were to go, Mr. Shucker said, for the Bridge University, congratulations and that's very good. But we need to watch, not just watch Mostar, let's watch what's in Sarajevo, what's in Doboj, what's in Tuzla, what's in Brcko, Banja Luka. ... I know everything and I know it, Mr. Shuker, I know it has... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thanks, I'm not gonna say everything's wrong, don't get me wrong, but there's something we can do to make things better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you know that Tuzla is 64% grant Croatian, you have 27 Croatian villages in the Brčan municipality, most of them, without speaking from Brcko to Derventa where the Croatian land is, where Croats have been inhabited for centuries. Who's fighting today to get them back? No one. So far, no one. I thank this government for the current and prime minister who visited Bosnia seven times, as Bozo Petrov told people that hope should be given. People in BiH need hope, not just money. And it's a big deal that the prime minister visited BiH. I thank him from here publicly and congratulate him, no government has done so far, he's done it in a year. You may not know, 56 Croats came out of Banja Luka... Who supports the Mosquito? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who supports Pulic in Sarajevo? Does Croatian politics want everyone in Central Bosnia, who didn't pass Bosnia, I did, I know her because I was born there, I know Herzegovina, and Livno and Sarajevo and I know all of Bosnia completely. Gentlemen, this is the most Croatian area. We don't need that. I've met, I'll touch a little Serbia, Croats in Serbia. A representative of Croats in Serbia, Tomislav Žigmanov, told me in Vinkovci, we met, so he said, for five years, I couldn't reach the prime minister. Five years. Yes, I said that in the Parliament, was after a month and thank the Prime Minister for seeing him. So much for the Croats we're taking out here, here's the left-hand side, so you'll understand. All clear this, the left side which supports Croats, does not support them, are still Ustashas for them. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54086	Please don't throw away, you have other options, give me a replica, please. Mr. Jovanovic, give me a replica if you will. Mr. Glasnović, give the replica, don't throw it away. Please proceed. Mr. Jovanovic, you have a warning. One more warning and you won't be able to speak, you have a warning, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Mouse. That's his second warning in his career.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54087	Of course, I understand this thing and the reaction of certain people, nothing new, we Croats in BiH, we Croats in Croatia, we must and it is our duty to help Croats so-called Croatians. You never told the Serbian Republic which was brought to the crime, which expelled 138 thousand, Jovanovic, why the Croats did not return to BiH, you did not say that in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54088	Mr. Misic, please don't provoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54089	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54090	Otherwise, I'll have to give you a heads-up, even though you're the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54091	I hope next year's central office will allocate more money for Bosnia's Posavina, for central Bosnia, which one of you once said, we don't have to give to the rich, let's give to the poor. Let's go to the poor people who would like to return their home to their land where from the Bosnian Ship to Derventa and all around burned villages today. And no one here has said anything for 25 years. It has become as normal as it should not be returned, as these people have fled, and where have the most people died defending BiH? In Bosnia's Pavina, 3,000. The difference between the Croatian Serbs and Bosnian Croats is that the Bosnian Croats fought for BiH. And they wanted to stay inside. Croatian Serbs rose and rebelled against the Croatian state. Well, that's a big difference. But I can't go back, I want the Croatian Serbs to return to Croatia, I want it, but gentlemen, I want the Croats to return to their homes in the Serbian Republic, to rebuild them, no, that doesn't need it, that even Croatian politics has failed. I hope, shame and hope, and I am optimistic about this work both from the Croatian office and from the prime minister and this authority that it will be and that it is going in a better direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54092	Thank you very much. We have six replicas, first Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54093	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Muscle, can you tell me who gives you the right to point your finger at the left hand side and say that we here are silent, listening to you, listening to you, thinking something against Croats and abroad? Who gives you the right to do that? If I'm sitting here, listening carefully doesn't mean I'm against anyone or anything. Shut up doesn't mean acceptance or denial. You should know that. It's the foundation of democracy. So any silence means nothing. Tell me, what makes you think you're a bigger Croat than me? I don't think I'm a big Croat. What makes you think you're a bigger Croat than me? Can you explain that to me, what kind of Croatianism is that? You spoke here all the time about Croats in Bosnia, Croats living outside Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and everywhere else, why didn't you talk about them? Intruder Misic, you don't understand. You didn't speak, Mr. Muscle. Who gives you the right to point fingers to the left. Here on this left, there are also MPs who were born abroad. He's got a representative. And just because they're not here doesn't mean they're against Croats abroad. Don't let yourself qualify someone without knowing them. You don't know why he's silent, why he sits here and shuts up and doesn't talk. Don't let that happen. You're a representative and you hold the integrity of this House rather than resisting someone on the basis of the introduction. That's not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54094	Mr. Shimic, I apologize. You didn't lift the bat. I apologize. No, I have to stick to my strict rules of procedure. It's the only weapon I have. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] You'll have five more lines, Mr. Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54095	Dear Representative Misic, I'll tell you what the situation of the Croats is. The situation is that the communists, the rescuers, were dissipating them for 45 years, and then these communists, the rescuers, turned them into HDZ parties, the SDP, and they founded each other. And then they continued their economic policy to move the Croats, here in 27 years. And the result of that policy is a social disaster. The result of this policy is that Franjo Tudjman and HDZ sold Bosnia and Herzegovina's Posavina, replaced Krajina with the same way that Croats were issued in Bosnia's Posavina, thus issued by Serbs in Krajina. It should also be said that the Croatian army came close to Banja Luka, but according to the directive, it means to American friends, spoken of by our President Colinda, had to withdraw there and surrender that territory to the Serbs. So because of this US policy and politics of Zagreb, namely Franjo Tudjman, the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Serbs in Krajina, are gone. This whole war has been one madness that has been driven by people, unfortunately with rhetoric similar to you. The rhetoric tells us of the superiority of one nation, of other nations, and not of the equality of all nations. Also, HDZ policy implemented in the BIH, where it is even more devastating than the policy implemented in times of communism, you will see this by how many Croats are recorded in these areas. Today, that is, in a few years, the Croats, if this policy continues, will no longer be Croats at all, you will say, well as in the BIH, the HDZ is not in power throughout the country. In Croatia, HDZ is in power throughout the country. Look how many Croats have escaped from our country in the last five years alone. What is happening is a genocide over our people, and you unfortunately support that policy with your support of HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54096	Replica, Mr. Mouse. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54097	Comrade Pernar, I fully understand you. I don't agree with 20 years before politics as it was led to the BIH, areas I know, how the war came and I don't mind that sometimes people in that war have moved out, and even, as they say and sold, they're alive. In the battle of Bosnia's Posavina, 3,000 people died. So they better not have died, but unfortunately they died of the criminals who drove them out of their backyards. But it's politics that can't take someone's house and say it's not yours anymore. We are entering Europe, we are a European country and we must respect the property of anyone, in the whole area. And now it's a question of us and all of us around and our Croatian policies, and in fact all the others, how to get those people back. I don't think there is, that the people are any crimes because individuals are committing crimes. That's why we won't prescribe to any people that they're a criminal people. I know BIH well, that's where they want to live both Croats and Muslims and Serbs together, only that politics is a little different than it is now, in fact, what it was. I hope now that it goes in some better direction and I think the Croats will survive, that everyone else will certainly need help. And my colleagues would answer, I did not object simply to you, I said, that your side did not, did not bother at all to say something in favour of Croats outside Croatia. So I have the right to say it, because I haven't noticed any reaction from you, except yours to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54098	Thank you, too. Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54099	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Mouse, I'm sitting here calmly, you've fallen for it, you've started yelling at us. You're declaring that we don't like our countrymen in the BiH. What I would say, recently, as Milanovici said to one MP, is hyperventilating nonsense. So how do you know we don't like fellow Americans, how do you even know everything? Maybe you can help me fill out my bookie's ballot when you know everything, but look at me in different ways and we're experiencing politics. The Secretary of State presented the report, a presented report which is very correct, very exact, all the numbers he said, everything he said, absolutely what he needed and the SDP Club will support it and accept it, we don't see at all what they would add. So it's about one different policy, let's just say, I'm not personal to you today, not to offend people for an empty story. You're repeating the numbers the secretary of state has already said everything. So we've invested so much and so much money. Then you say you've invested so much and so much money. Well, I've heard it before. It's not a almond. I don't need it twice. So, we're experiencing politics differently, I'm not into these empty stories, with all due respect, I repeat, all morning, the man delivered the report, very correctly, as it is said, when the conditions come to pass, we'll vote for it and that's it. I don't see, this reason that you've become so entangled here on the left, which is what your colleague Jovanovic would tell you, therefore, you have no right to turn around, but that pattern, brother, would say this Milanovic again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54100	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, somebody's phone's vibrating, control it because they're feeling something, here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54101	My colleague, I fully understand that you are not interested. It doesn't matter to you, it doesn't matter to me, it's important, because I am emotional towards the Croatian people, all the way where it is and towards all the peoples. You're not, you're not so interested. You, practically Croats who are not in Croatia, are not interested, because those people who do not need to return, who have been expelled, since '45. To this day. So, I and I want to help these people, I'm... Please don't interrupt me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What are you talking about? What do you give yourself for the right? What do you give yourself for the right?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54102	I'm sorry, don't, don't, don't, don't be different from who I am. I don't want to make any warnings. I hate it. You understand what I'm saying. Don't do that. Here you go, Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54103	I don't know where I am. I love the Croatian people and I want the Croatian people to feel good anywhere and come to Croatia and come back. That's it, Mr. Matice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54104	Mr. Matic, you've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54105	That's right, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Misic injured Article 238, so again in a way, not in some way, but again insulting. So how can he know if I like Croats outside BiH, outside Croatia. So what, so I have to take this, and what do I have to do? Keeping some praises and stories? So once again, I am very pleased with the State Secretary's report, we will support this report, and I think I have said so much more than many colleagues with empty stories, swearing. So some colleagues here even know how personal I am during, while I was on the mandate of the defence minister to help our countrymen in BiH, should be questioned before that, it would be good to know something about this rather than thus giving empty qualifications on certain things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54106	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here we heard a shameful debate by fellow Mišic where he threatened, yelled, insulted us on the left hand side and used what was worst in the assembly, so the argument of shouting instead of the power of arguments and the fact that we on the left did something to the Croats living outside Croatia. So a shameful, pointless debate, a debate in which he insulted Serbs living in Croatia. And that's an example of how you can't speak in the Parliament. And I call on Mr. Misic to read all the reports of the Croatian Office outside Croatia in the mandate of Zoran Milanovic to see how much was done for Croats outside Croatia and how far the left side was when, which was then in power also took care of Croats outside Croatia, as does the current office headed with Mr. Milos. So you've got a pointless, offensive debate that doesn't lead to anything and doesn't do any good. You called me? So go to the University of Mostar and ask them how much Minister Jovanovic made for them while he was minister of education and science. So you have no idea, you insult and banalize the work in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54108	Mr. Misic answered. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54109	Comrade Jovanovic, I would now ask you how many times have you gone to Bosnia's Posavina where 138 thousand Croats have been expelled, have you tried anything there? I didn't hear that from you. So I didn't insult anyone on a personal level, so you attacked me when I defended and said only that your left hand side wasn't interested in it. Therefore, if I had offended the Serbs, that's not true, I would never have done it and I didn't do it. I want the Serbs to return to their homes, as much as the Croats need to return to their homes. Therefore, you have never heard me insult any people. And I never want to, ever hurt any people because I believe every nation has the right to live where it lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54110	Thank you very much. Nice to meet you. Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54111	So just in the introduction, I'd say why Mr. Pernar got off to a good start, eventually got a little confused. Why did she fail, this social experiment, the failed social experiment, Yugoslavia. ... They don't improve because they destroy themselves by force of weapons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they're the ones who attacked us in 1912, and they took down the gambling in this last war. And that's a clean thing. Like this, where is the action plan for the return of the Croats back to Savina? How much war walk there, who's gonna pay that war damage? What about the return of property? So why won't anyone come here dear comrades to the right, there to the left, so look? What about the confiscation? Why is 5% of the land arranged in Croatia? Who will come to you here? BiH has no law on the return of property at all. It's facts, not empty stories. What is it, we pay 55,000 pensions outside Croatia, mostly in Serbia, etc., what is the pension of Croats in BiH, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia, etc.? Council for Croats outside the country, decorative body. What have they done specifically so far? Nothing. What's proof of that? Nothing. For three million Croats out there we have three, we don't have three representatives here, here, three heads of our own. How's that? Why don't we have the Ministry of Immigration and 3 million people out there? Did such an electoral system exist in other countries? There isn't. That's why we're just looking for equality, your keyword. As far as diplomacy is concerned, what's he doing... diplomacy? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What were they doing today, those ex-South personnel? And where they sit here today, heads who pleaded as Yugoslavs, and now, overnight, they've become big democracies. What about that strange word lustration? Don't kid yourself there has a head here and that's proof that there are 3 of us here, that we don't have the Ministry of Immigrants, that we have 3 million people out there, 3 million Croats who are totally excluded from social and economic development. That's proof of that policy because you gentlemen are there, now they're on my right, so who are you kidding? You're looking at Croats, you're all wrestling out there like border Ustashas. They're a threat to you, their calling, their money power and ability, and that's why you've made it more common than this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54112	Thank you very much. It's expired, thank you very much. Only one thing, Mr. Glasovic, all pensions paid outside Croatia and in Croatia are based on the law, which was passed by this Assembly. If you know one pension that's out of the law, say it and it'll be sanctioned. All pensions are legal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54113	A colleague of Glasnović's. It's clear to me, I've known for a long time how much we take about Croats and outside of Croatia's accounts. Almost not. You see how many years it takes only the law that we need to pass to the Parliament that the Croat living in Australia and South America, Argentina, America, Germany and anywhere without citizenship takes Croatia a year and a half because they check it from all sides. Why are they checking? If a man lived in one country, any country in the world that he had no crime and could bring any kind of confirmation whether from the court, whether from their competent authorities of the MUP or anything else, which we should further check that, we will check it out, torture it and have no will to go back, that is the question and that is what we are talking about and what I cannot agree with a lot of people who want to say that here is transparent everything and how these Croats have space, they have a place, they have no time and they actually have nothing outside to come who are rich and who can enter capital and who could refresh this Croatian state. But unfortunately, we live in a country like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54114	Mr. Glasnović, you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... No, no, not like that, turn it on. [[/Intruder Glasnović, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54115	I'm not going to quote that business, I'm just gonna ask you about those pensions. [[Intruder Radin: No, you must say the article of the Rules of Procedure if you are looking for an injury.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54116	You're not looking, okay. Mr. Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Misic, two notes from my side. I don't come from BiH, there are either Slavons or Dalmatians in my family, but I care very much about the position of the Croatian people in both Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it really saddens me when so much energy is invested in creating the difference between Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I see the position of the Croatian people in BiH, both in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that's how this government looks at it, and I think you've pointed out, and give it the right approach to be built. Of course, the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is difficult, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as you mentioned, is also difficult. And the way to look there is, how synergy there to create and not divide, and if critical tones go, which are of course legitimate and should be discussed, but sometimes it seems to me that energy is missing then to seek what is the responsibility of the authorities when we talk, about Croats in Sarajevo, which is the responsibility of the Sarajevo authorities for that. Speaking of Croats in an entity that is Republika Srpska, which is the responsibility of the government there in Banja Luka. So, I think there are, of course, voices like that, but a lot more energy should be directed together. The second I see you've upset a lot of the left side but there seems to me, here and a very clear recipe. Let's agree on a correspondence vote and we'll show all together that we really care about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54118	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic, you asked for a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54119	Comrade Stier, I'd look back when you said you were responsible for the government. Yeah, it's all about responsibility in power. Here you are, the foreign minister, I'm sorry you left, that's what I told you. Yes, the authorities should take much, much more care of each government about its citizens, whether it is Serbian, Croatian or any other nationality. Unfortunately, the Croats in BiH suffered the most. But over the past 20 years, I wouldn't say, I couldn't agree that the responsibility of the government was enough involved to solve their problems. I'm not complicated with that, and I can't right now, although I have some impression and I'm making some impression, and here I am, through this office that I'm sure I'm going to support, and I'm glad that it's there, to support and try to turn some directions, one direction where we're really going to, and where that people just need support, it doesn't take as much financial support as it is to have someone standing behind them. That's the point. Unfortunately, we are looking at personal interests and not the interests of the state or the Croats, and so I saw it, and here I am now going into politics and through this I am trying to contribute what I can and how much I can go in one if, I think one better direction and that the state and I think we're already going that way and that's just fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54120	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. We continue with individual debates. Mr. Zeljko Ragug, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54121	Thank you, Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Much has been said about the work of the office in the past year, commenting on the annual report on implementation of the strategy and the law on the relationship of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Some of this should also be repeated, but what is crucial and what we have heard today to realize the consensus needed in the Croatian Parliament, which is the assumption that a more quality approach is to continue to help the Croats in BiH and Croatian minorities and Croatian emigrants, is just to stop this debate, but to look for what is common to us and what will help us to define this issue in one more quality way and work together in this direction. The key assumption of this and what is the key strategic goal of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is the inclusiveness of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in the social and political life of the Republic of Croatia. The assumption of this, i.e. two key assumptions, is the creation of conditions for a more liberal acquisition of Croatian citizenship and the implementation of the electoral right of Croatian emigration, Croats in BiH, or Croatian minorities in European countries in one more appropriate way. We will need to reach a consensus on this, and then it will be necessary to see where we are different and how to remove it. What should be pointed out when the annual report of the central state office in its work in the past year is the fact that they have succeeded in one systematic way, it is a key feature of their work last year in a systematic way to promote the public policy of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. They did it. There is much to do, but when we listened to today's reviews of what the Republic of Croatia did for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it certainly did a lot. The Republic of Croatia has done much for Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries and other European countries and for Croatian emigration. Of course, we are not fully satisfied with this, but we are not satisfied in many other areas. Of what has been done in the past year when the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina are concerned, here I will only tell four facts. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats, within the framework of the National Security Strategy, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, after 15 years, received one more suitable place in favour of not only Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also of the Republic of Croatia. Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina also received a more appropriate place under the new comprehensive Law on Croatian defenders. That's one big value we don't have to underestimate. Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina took up the central state office in a contract signed between Croatian Radio and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in late September also received an appropriate place under the Croatian Radio Television programme. It was said that the international radio channel and the international television channel will be launched as of 1 January 2018, where the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatian minorities and Croatian emigrants will be treated more adequately. These are too valuable things for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who do not have their public radio broadcasting as a result of the blasphemy policy, which is what counterpart Bulj was talking about today. Why don't they have it? Because Bosniaks want to inform the Croatian public in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the way they want it, which is within their great concept that does not mean the equality of the Croatian people with Bosniaks and Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why it's too valuable to start with this approach to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. A more appropriate attitude towards Croatian emigration, Croatian minorities and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is seen and the amount of the government's budget for 2017 has increased funds for the operation of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It is also seen from the review of how many of the ministries and institutions of the Republic of Croatia have invested in 126 million kuna in support projects for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatian minorities and Croatian emigrants. But what is too important to stress besides all these projects that have been implemented over the past year is important to highlight one more appropriate, more content, more responsible relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia in terms of political support for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatian minorities and Croatian emigrants. It is crucial that Croatians come up with the opportunity to elect their political representatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so using their own resources in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they organise their own broadcasting and a number of others, so the needs that Croats have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would end up saying that in addition to a series of disagreements that we witnessed today, when the issue of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croatian minority, Croatian emigration, we need to focus on what we share regardless of whether we are from this or that political party. I could also testify on the correct attitude of members from other political parties towards the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there is no need to stress that. It's a good thing we've heard from our MOST colleagues today, such a relationship. I believe that disagreement over the position of Croats, Croatian emigration is behind us and that years ahead of us will be years of consensus, and therefore years ahead of us are simply something that should be used in a better way and correct all the gaps that have been in the past two decades when the politics of the Republic of Croatia towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, towards Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries and towards Croatian emigration. With all the remarks we could hear today, the government of the Republic of Croatia has made a significant turnoff and these problems that arise in relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, with neighbouring countries, are not such problems as some of the interpretations of the bad policies of the Republic of Croatia. These are the problems that have arisen as a result of a more consistent, more responsible relationship to the reality of the environment of the Republic of Croatia and we will be able to see that the reality of such relations will be seen precisely in the resolution of such issues. In the Croatian Parliament over the past two decades there have been those who have repeated, and today there are, who repeat the forms of propaganda of some other peoples who have been directed when Bosnia and Herzegovina Croats are concerned that the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not being held in an unequal position, instead of participating as an equal people together with Serbs and Bosniaks in the construction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that the session, the thematic session of the Croatian Parliament, which is planned soon for the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina, will also be held on the Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries and other European countries will be an opportunity when all of us will look at ourselves in the mirror and through consensus to resolve the issues that Croatians expect from us outside the Republic of Croatia. I thank the Central State Office for achieving these results over the past year. We need to define our commitment to the Croatian Parliament to help them deliver their results in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54122	Thank you, too. We have six replicas. First Mr. Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54123	Col. Raguž, so in your debate you correctly detected, so basic three to say the guidelines of action in Croatian institutions citizenship, electoral law, information. Of course, with what you said in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not repeat what I absolutely agree on. As far as citizenship is concerned, the situation is so today that the new law adopted in 2011 has made it difficult even for people to be admitted to Croatian citizenship... and even in cases where both parents are Croats, even in cases where children were born after both parents entered Croatian citizenship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because this article actually refers to those who have evicted from the Republic of Croatia and does not actually recognise those who have evicted for example from Bosnia and Herzegovina and does not accept the fact that in official documents in some countries such as the case in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is, in particular, no section for nationality where citizenship is actually mentioned. So, I'll tell you two examples of people who were involved in the Storm, born in the Fojnica. His kids can't get citizenship because he doesn't actually belong in that category. As far as voting rights are concerned, of course, what fellow Stier has pointed out several times, where you said so, so it is up to us only to introduce a letter vote. That doesn't even require you to change the Constitution, it doesn't even require those discussions that we've disagreed on so far. I hope that in the future we will agree to increase the number of representatives for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. And finally information. So, the situation has recently been such that we haven't actually been able to get to know each other, we Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia or in Croatia. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] The new HRT policy seems to me to be heading towards fixing this thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54124	Mr. Ljubic, thank you very much. Mr. Ragug, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54125	Just when it comes to information, we are also witnessing in the Croatian Parliament, so lack of information not only, so Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in communication between the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the public in the Republic of Croatia. And we who are more realistic because we live in Bosnia and Herzegovina see these relations simply surprise us when we listen to patterns that are due to just bad information, and it is perfectly natural that these patterns are used and repeated, and these are patterns that are directed against the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I refrain from reacting, and it is normal for me, because of these absences in our internal communication, between the public of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, that this is what is happening. I believe that if the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina had their own public broadcasting service, when the fifth channel of Croatian broadcasting started, there would be less download of other people's forms and we would understand each other better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54126	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54127	Dear ladies and gentlemen of HDZ, this is where you sell us stories of Croatianism and patriotism. Excuse me. [[/Intruder Radin: Mr. Pernar, you must replicate the speaker, not in general. You have to tell the speaker who spoke. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. Here you go.]] I'm asking for my time back. Thank you. [[I'll give you 10 seconds more. Here you go.]] I mean, the HDZ gentlemen are talking about this... Excuse me, are my HDZ colleagues going to let me speak? [[You can't hear it.]] [[It's okay, it's okay. Here you go. Mr. Pernar, it's all right.]] If they don't agree with us let them replicate [[Do not argue. Don't get...]] Well, I'd already be in half if I was allowed to talk. [[It's too late for a fight. Here you go.]] Please, no distractions because it doesn't make sense. Thank you. So a HDZ colleague has been talking all the time about tobojing HDZ in favour of the interests of the Croatian people in BiH and in general, but it is known, i.e. everyone knows that HDZ has brought the Croatian people to the brink of survival not only in BiH but also in its own state. As far as your HDZ president, BiH, he pleaded as Yugoslav by the 1990s and signed with the Cyrillic. He was a member of the party, and today this man, speaking of a ghoul, I mean the threat of the Croatian people he builds a villa, changes the flow of the river, has a hacendo worth 5 million marks he and his family and is not ashamed to talk about the loss of his people, and the Croatian people in BiH are threatened and injured, but suffers because of people like Dragan Ćovic and the rest of the criminal organisation that has systematically robbed both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54128	Thank you, Mr. Pernar. Someone can be a member of the HDZ, be a Serb and sign with the Cyrillic. The Constitution does not forbid it. Mr. Ragug's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54129	Comrade Pernar, you just repeated the form I was talking about before. So you're the victim of propaganda, you're not checking things out. You believe everything you read is true. I believe that if you were to approach Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a more serious way, even those representing the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you would mention Mr Ćovic not to say so. It is simply the easiest way to be irresponsible as you repeat it today in the Croatian Parliament and, unfortunately, how you have done it in the last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54130	Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54131	Dear colleague, this is how I think that we are responsible not only for BiH, of course, priority, outside of Homeland Croatia, and who is also talking about the German minority, this is who has been completely destroyed here since '45. Furthermore, where it was taken away from these people, half a million were taken away in the former Yugoslavia. 90 thousand more farms, small shops etc., agricultural land has been taken away and who is talking about them, where the bridge is our bridge of the Croatian state with these people. The German minorities who were the engine of the economy and the changes in the modernisation of the former state, that they were not extinct. To repeat, it's a true genocide, more than 60 grand have been killed, I must repeat, 60 thousand more Germans, women, children, old men, another 60 thousand of those German prisoners who are... build. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's their damage, do they have the right to return? The Italians were paid back around 20 million, the South paid 70s, etc., etc. We primarily hear a lot of that word synergy, coordination. How is it possible that 20 after the war we don't have a statistical framework for Croats outside the country? It's been 22 years. I mentioned that in the state, Ontario province for 18 years, it was arranged... digitized, is that intentional sabotage? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about the people who want to come back? We return the people who have destroyed the Croatian state, we have... Thousands of requests to return, what about the people outside? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The man cannot come to us from Venezuela as an example of where the de facto war is, he does not speak Croatian, and what about these Syrian refugees who want to return, in fact they will come here by conspiracy, the EU agreement. The most discriminated against is the Croatian minority, the proof of the composition of this House. Where are those people? Slow justice is not justice. We've been waiting years and years. Where's the Ministry of Immigration? In fiction, it's fiction, secret fiction. We don't need air conditioning, we need action plans and people to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54132	Thank you. 10% was returned to the Italians, which you said was returned, 10%. But it's not today's story. Mr. Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Raguž, you mentioned that it would be desirable to have a consensus in joining BiH and according to the position of Croats in BiH. The fact is that the paradigm of the Stigmatization of Croats especially in Herzegovina, which one political option once had, is that it has now somehow been tempered or removed and given any shifts and that it has indeed come to us once as we have seen in the European Parliament but also here to a common approach when the word is, for example. on the right of Croats in BiH to choose their legitimate representatives. And that should be pointed out and further worked on. I think we need to move on, and that's why this letter vote issue is so important. Because now we will prove by a concrete move that we really want to do something to make not only of course about Croats and BiH who are a constituent people, not only about our citizens who are members of Croatian minorities but also about our Croatian emigrants so that we can better involve them and protect their constitutional rights as citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But there we must show that there is this political will, that we do not look at the Croats in emigration as someone who does not understand Croatia, and then cannot even love it, which we have heard unfortunately in this House, but indeed as part of our people, those who have a citizenship to have the right to vote, that they can indeed express it by means of a letter vote to them and allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54134	Thank you very much. Mr. Ragug, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54135	What you said, Comrade Stier, and your personal commitment to the European Parliament, was a new approach towards consensus when the Croats of BiH were at stake. I believe that the Croatian public and the Croatian minority and Croatian emigrantism also expect such an approach from us, of course, that approach will be able to be checked in practice by adopting legal solutions that allow such one approach, and I believe that in this direction they mature the conditions in the Croatian Parliament, the political life of the Republic of Croatia that will make it possible. Continuing the division of differences in the political life of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to BiH Croats would completely stop us in our justified efforts to be equal with the other two peoples in BiH. Unfortunately, what used to happen in the Croatian Parliament should not be repeated. Some of the formulations discussed in this House were unfortunately an integral part and a verdict against individuals from the Croatian people in BiH. We are accused as a people that we have displaced ourselves in BiH because it has been said in the Croatian Parliament, but I will also say that in recent years there have been examples from other political parties and other coalitions that have been in power, which have broken down with such practice. For BiH Croats, it was too important that the SDP of Croatia made it clear to the Bosniak political parties that it no longer wants to support their manipulation of the Croats in BiH and that they stand at the stand that the Croats in BiH should represent their legitimate representatives in the BiH authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54136	Thank you very much. And finally the last replica, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54137	Thank you very much. Comrade Raguž, in my replica, I will go with what you have finished the replica of my colleague Stier, and that has been dragged through your debate. When there was little unity in Croatia over the fact that the Croatian state stands behind all its people in BiH, we chose our own member of the Croatian representation of BiH. And I don't think there should be any more politicizing or smarting, smart enough, and the one who doesn't want to understand, his problem. So, we've all sent a clear message. Are we in our discussion today? Unfortunately, we didn't. We are dealing with trivial things, one is definitely the problem of Croats in BIH who have been demographic for years, so to speak the reserve of Croatia, and today, unfortunately, they are not even a demographic reserve to themselves and let alone in Croatia. And that is a long-term big problem for the Croatian state. The other problem is, unfortunately, we haven't touched at all today, the problem of Croats in Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Macedonia, but the explicits in Serbia. Because look, if we act, according to the rights of the Croats in the BiH that they are a constructive people, how we will fight for rights in Serbia. Is it a problem to tell Croatian politicians that we are looking for the same right for Croats in Serbia, as Serbs have in Croatia. Nothing else. And third problem, our already slightly third generation in Western European countries and fourth problem overseas Croatia. And this should be the basis and strategy for Croatia's relationship with Croats outside Croatia. And what we are talking about today is the material aid to the Croats most reflected in the Croatians in BIH, one small part of the Croatians in Serbia, who, above all, need help to fight for status. For what was rightfully taken away from them, at the moment you took away his right to information, you took their right to speak language.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54138	Not the same rights, analog rights. Otherwise they will have the right to Cyrillic Croats in BiH. Here you go. Mr. Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54139	Just as you said fellow Shuker, when a consensus has been reached in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, Croats from the BIH have gained new strength, I believe that will be so in the coming periods, but we must be aware of the facts and now, the Greater Gentiles' policy in the BIH, through all Bosniak political parties, wants to question again, what has been achieved. And for the public of the Republic of Croatia, it should be noted, the strength of the Croats in the BiH, the strong Croatia, the strong Croatian emigration, the strong position of Croatian minorities. Of course, in the BIH, relations with both the Serb community in the Republic of Croatia and our national minority in Serbia are the key. This is something less known and less understood in the public of the Republic of Croatia, but I believe that new categories, new concepts are being introduced in this direction, and that more and better understanding is the need for equal relations, when Croatian politics are both towards Serbs and Bosniaks in the BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54140	I skipped Mr. Sagar who was also looking for a replica and was before Mr. Shucker, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54141	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It doesn't matter. Dear colleague Raguž, therefore, you have opened several of the most important issues in your debate, and are related otherwise to political life in the Republic of Croatia and all of that or that part of that political life where we have a struggle. We actually agree in most things, whether they're left or right options. We agree on these things and agree that in the Office of Croatians outside the homeland they do their job in those frameworks they can do. Everyone would love it, if it were financial, if it could be more, but what's money, there's so much. As far as citizenship is concerned, there are things we can handle without money, and we don't have enough maybe will. Some shifts have been made. You see, Estonia has, today you can become a citizen of Estonia's e-Citizen. You pay 100 euros, fill out the form and become their citizen. And we're still struggling with it today, harassing people, diplomatic consular representations. They can be hundreds of miles away, so a man can, say, extend his I.D. to do something. We just torture him. The position of Croats in BIH is not good. They don't need... But they need our help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we get to the point of dispute, where it is, in fact, where I've seen all those years. And that's what the council warns, that's the number of MPs from the 9th constituency. And the way you vote... This way of voting, we can also very easily solve it and I think it has to be solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That people are being harassed to stand in line, I don't know, since 6:00 in the morning, to give their vote. So that means it's... 11 constituency, sorry, I read it wrong. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 11 electoral units. It means that people can do their duty, and as for the number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, there is little, there are few political obstacles, there are and there will be them. Whether there are enough or not, but what we can certainly agree on is that we all our Croats who are not glad to leave the Republic of Croatia and who live in the BiH need help.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54142	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54143	The number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament representing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia shows a key discrepancies in the political life of the Republic of Croatia towards Croatian emigration, Croatian minorities and Croats in the BiH. It is inappropriate that 3 to 4 million Croats represent 3 MPs, while at the same time 3 to 4 million Croats in the Republic of Croatia represent 145, 148 MPs. But that's what will be the subject of our discussions, of our maturation and of our more responsible relationship. It is very important to stress that in this direction and the diplomatic network in the world, therefore, the enlargement of the network can also help create conditions for the realisation of rights, citizenship and voting rights. The government, therefore, has also taken significant steps in this direction. When it comes to the Croatians, it is important to stress that next to the RS Embassy in Sarajevo, a consultant in Mostar, Tuzla and Banja Luka, the opening of consulates in Knights and Livn soon follows. These are all steps that are heading towards resolving issues that have not been resolved yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54144	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, Mr. Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54145	Thank you very much Mr. Chairman, and I would like to congratulate Mr. Secretary of State in advance on him and his team on the work and on the report he filed. And this report shows that the relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has changed for a better, different relationship, we have a much more normal situation today than a few years ago. It is also important to be honest, to say that the relationship has changed on the left. We remember, this is only one example, and when the HDZ headquarters in BiH in Mostar was attacked, that former Prime Minister Milanovic went to Mostar himself and met the scale of the attack at the headquarters of our sister's HDZ party, BiH. Thus, it can be said that the situation has changed for the better. Slowly but surely in Croatia we understand that our emigrants and Croats are outside the Republic of Croatia, our minorities that they are the jewel of Croatia. It took a long time for that, in HDZ it was never a dispute, it was woven into our policy but it slowly changed and I said and extended to our colleagues in the opposition. By the way, I remember, if I'm not mistaken that at the end of the 1990s, the Italian Left has just launched a change in electoral legislation and inclusion and allowing Italians outside Italy to vote and be represented in the Italian Parliament, it seems to me that Piero Fassino was very active. And now the third,... I'll give you a letter. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now the third approach to this problem is that we have different conditions for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I'll look back at three conditions, three conditions, rough. We have the situation of Croats in Serbia, the situation of Croats in BiH and not to neglect Croats in overseas countries now, but Croats in Western Europe. That's, like, three, I'd say, major groups. It was said in Serbia itself and there were no numbers produced there, we had a situation 50 years ago that we had 185,000 Croats in Serbia, today there are around 58 thousand according to the last 2011 census. So that's reality. This means that the existence of Croats in Serbia has been threatened, threatened by existence, many have been forced to go to war in Croatia, and terror has spread to them in Vojvodina, there have been social pressures in Belgrade and elsewhere in Serbia and many have gone, have gone to Croatia, have gone to third countries. And for them, we have to fight in the front row and it's very actively done by fellow Secretary of State Milas. We were together last year in Subotica, visiting our people with special financial support and participating in important events. And there we must really challenge as much as we can finally live in Serbia the Agreement on the Protection of National Minorities, to get a Croatian representative in the National Assembly, to have its guaranteed mandate as Serbs in Croatia have three mandates guaranteed in the Croatian Parliament. And there's Mr. Schucker absolutely right, if we can give three mandates to the Serb minority in Croatia, then I guess it's time for us to get one term in the National Assembly in Serbia and that's why we have to fight. And I am convinced that the Croatian government will fight for it. And we will, of course, do everything in the Croatian Parliament and encourage it to happen as soon as possible. In BiH itself, we talked about it the most today, our consciousness is, but we should always say that Croats in BiH are the first victims of JNA and Serbia's aggression against BiH. And that Croats are in BiH, the first rebels against aggression against BiH. Let's not go into detail now. Croats with their engagement saved BiH. After all, even when it was a referendum on independence, they were together with Bosniaks in large numbers for BiH's independence. They could have voted differently, they didn't. And that's our consciousness. And when we talk about the electoral law on the necessity of amending the electoral law, then very often we in Croatia forget that Croatia is Croatia, it is exactly the signatories of the Dayton Agreement and that Croatia has an obligation, I now quote fully respect, as signatories and promote compliance with the obligations undertaken in accordance with Annex 4 which, that means the Constitution of BiH. The Constitution of BiH mentions the Constitutional Court and its decisions are binding and final. So if the Constitutional Court has made a decision that the Election Law must be changed thanks to the appeal of Mr. God Ljubic, our colleague, then we must work in Croatia to respect BiH's constitution and thus one body, the Constitutional Body, the Constitutional Court. So here's the thing. But in BiH, the existence of Croats has been threatened as well as in Serbia. We talked about numbers, he talked about both fellow Misic and numbers. But how to change things in this area not only in verbalism, in nice words, there you need to hire people, invest. For example, I will tell you what a German does in Serbia. Germany signed a German-Serbian initiative to encourage investment and jobs with Serbia 2 years ago. And it is planned that the initiative will create 4500 jobs, that 1200 vocational students will be trained and 140m euros of investment will be achieved at the annual level. Such things should be done in Bosnia and Herzegovina where the existence of Croats is threatened. And everywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina where you have economic operators who are successful Croats remain. I also visited Skopje, I was in other towns and municipalities in BiH. Where the Croatian economy works, they stay. Where things don't work, Croatians go and others go both Bosniaks and Serbs. It is therefore important to invest there, to create jobs, to be able to live from your work. Third point of Western Europe, Germany. There we received in the last three years 100 from 2012, 31.12.2012 to 31.12.2016 there was an increase in the number of Croats from 108 thousand. According to German statistics, there are 108 thousand Croats more in Germany, now there are 333 thousand. Maybe now and more, it was from 31.12.2016. What's the problem over there? There's no problem with existence. They can mostly exist there, there is a problem ensuring the rights of Croats to education because we need to strengthen the presence of the Croatian Ministry of Science and Education. We have federal lands where we are condemned to our resources when it comes to the education of Croats. Some small French contribution from the German federal country is being made. Let's say Berlin or Baden Württemberg, but it's up to us to organize our children's education. It is a task, we must do it just as in Austria where there are many Croats still called the BHS or BKS, Bosnians, croatish, serbish. Despite our efforts, we haven't been able to solve this yet to call the subject of Croatian language for Croatian students. These are concrete measures we must take to improve the position of Croats outside Croatia, to lecture. Expansion of influence, interpretation of the past, of the present. This must be achieved in these countries and, of course, the electoral law, a correspondence vote for Croats outside Croatia, as well as for all of us in Croatia. 30% of Germans voted in a letter in previous parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54146	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54147	I am glad that you pointed out in your presentation, so the contribution of the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the maintenance and sustainability of Bosnia and Herzegovina and is not extra about talking here in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public because 20 years of it has been kept silent or spoken of in the way anti-Croatian propaganda wanted and which has been placed very skillfully. I'll repeat here in a different way. So, the Croats saved Bosnia and Herzegovina three times. For the first time in a referendum, voting for independence. The second time she stood first in defense when others attacked her or couldn't defend her or didn't want to. The third time in the Storm when joint actions by the HVO and the Croatian Army have created conditions for the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And today, for the fourth time, Croatians are trying to save Bosnia and Herzegovina by defending its Euro-Atlantic path, because Croats have nowhere to go but towards Euro-Atlantic integrations, neither to the northeast nor to the Middle East. Therefore, these are all things that absolutely in the Croatian public should be repeated in order for the Croatian public and the Croatian state to finally understand its strategic interest in the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, our demands, which are articulated by the Croatian National Assembly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose main council, by chance, holds the presidency, are in fact absolutely identical to the recommendations of the European Parliament's Resolution. Therefore, all we require are European values, European standards and the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Union, of course, which is Croatia's strategic interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54148	Thank you very much. He's looking for an answer to Mr. Kovac's line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54149	Here you go. I absolutely agree with you, my colleague Ljubic, and when I spoke about the fact that we must use our resources outside of Croatia on the interpretation of the past and the present, I thought of Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina as well. It's very important for us to be much more active. It is not enough for us from Croatia to support the verbal and concrete measures of Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina as such, and then we listen to any criticism or praise of the Croats from BiH when it comes to Croatia, but we must expand our view of Bosnia and Herzegovina, our interpretation of the past when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina around the world. That's what we have to do. We have resources for this. I was on a colloquium about Croatian history a week ago. That kind of thing has to be a lot more. Unfortunately for now, such views on Bosnia and Herzegovina are not dominated by such views, such views of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They are often accused, so you said a very nice colleague of Raguž that it was the case even in the Croatian Parliament that they were the culprits of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we agree that they saved Bosnia and Herzegovina and that they did not engage in the defence of the country it would have been whispered down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54150	Thank you, too. Mr. Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kovač, here we are already at the end of this debate today, and this debate in the Parliament today, regardless of what we are different in some respects, but I think it will send a clear political signal, that in the highest House in Croatia political debate has begun on Croats outside Croatia no matter how much we may be banalising and bagatelizing today. But we sent one message. And the other thing, I don't want to raise anyone, but I think that the discussions of colleagues Ljubic and colleagues of Raguž also sent a message that, today, they made it clear to the Croatians in BiH. And it just has to be heard here in this High House. It's different when we talk about who we live somewhere else, we can be of origin, I don't know how, but that's another message, too. However, voting law, the truth for someone was afraid that the HDZ on the 11th electoral unit would have 2 more deputies that could ultimately outnumber who would win the election. And we were in the final phase of negotiations to join the EU, we had to change the Constitution for some things, and then there was blackmail, literally, and you have to do that anyway we won't support it. And so there was this restriction on those three MPs. Although today, when you look at the political situation and think in Croatia, I don't think anyone would think of it going that way today, but what was the political signal today in this debate, I see it that way, is that it creates a light political climate that these are changes. It's been easy for everyone to vote in a letter. Well, it's going to be easy for the 11th constituency quota to be a little different. But I repeat, let's not forget that the Croats in BiH have long been a strong pillar on which Croatia could rely, the Homeland War has shown this, and so today we must think about them when they need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54152	Thank you very much, Mr. Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54153	Comrade Shuker, you spoke of a letter vote, I said, and I stood up for it, after all, our party advocates it, and has a formal decision on that plan. Why does it matter? Of course this is important because of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, it will facilitate their participation in the elections, but it is important for all of us in the country. Many people do not go to elections because it is not practical for them, they may have paid an annual holiday in a foreign country and then it is complicated to change it because the elections are scheduled and will be set in 2.3 months. No, we must introduce a letter vote for all our citizens, whether they stay in Croatia or outside the Republic of Croatia. And I'm going to say one more time, in the last German federal election almost 30% of their citizens voted in a letter. If I'm not mistaken in France a few years ago about 8.9%. So it's a very important measure for all of us and so for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. And I agree with my colleague Shuker that, I said so and initially that the ambience has changed when it comes to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, they are our jewel. A foreign politician told me a few years ago, he was a minister, says every Croatian executive official should go to the United States once a year, to Canada and visit Croatian businessmen. Because you have a lot of people who are successful, who could invest in Croatia and only invest if they feel safe, if they trust the system. And it's our job to go around them regularly, degrade a system that works that will secure their investments. They have to believe in the Croatian system and we have to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54154	The Internet will solve this within a few years and the Internet will solve both in the country and outside. Mr. Ljubic, final five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54155	Fellow representatives, Mr. Milas, Mr. Perkusic and the Central State Office. So here are the results of the work of the Central State Office that you presented to us today at the beginning of the debate on this point and the discussions in this House here from all the clubs that discussed the speech that the office was founded for a reason. That the office in one systematic, transparent and balanced way therefore realised its tasks and its mission and strategies and laws according to all the Croatians' components outside the Republic of Croatia. And that I'm not going to do it again because I said it in the report. As for what I would like here today to point out here in front of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. We need a consensus in relation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in order to have them or ours, when I speak for myself, full integration into the social political life of the Republic of Croatia. We need a consensus in Croatia, primarily on strategic state and national interests in the Republic of Croatia. Any topic of the strategic issue is at stake. Is it INA, is it Agrokor, is it management reform and local self-government? Because only in this way can we train the Republic of Croatia to be strong enough inside and sufficiently respectable in the international community to help Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, including so here is the Croats in BiH who are a constituent nation. As for today's debate. So the fact that all clubs supported in their discussions is a report and I expect everyone to support it when the vote here tells me two things. They are actually talking about the quality of work and the organisation of the office but it also tells me about the consensus in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian political spectrum on all sides about the importance of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for the Republic of Croatia itself and its integration into the social political life of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we have to build on. On the other hand, what should be pointed out as a new quality in the relations between the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia led by Mr. Plenkovic, the president of the Republic of Croatia led by Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, is this new political activist and new political paradigm. As I said in my presentation, so 7 visits by Andrej Plenkovic to BiH speak well. However, it speaks even more of the way these visits were realised that no visit was made without relying on the Croatian community to be Posavina, Tuzla, Central Bosnia, Herzegovina. Also, visits that, in the first place, drew information from legitimate political representatives of Croats in BiH. And finally, something I want to say when speaking from the position of BiH's political representative. If there were any conditions we didn't have, I would say never so far in the history of independence of one and another country. So we have a strategic political consensus in BiH, within the Croatian National Assembly association that brings together 12 political parties and over 95% of the legitimately elected Croatian representatives. We have, as I believe, a consensus in the politics of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the Croatian issue in BiH and we have one third thing we have not had so far, the awareness in the international community that the Croats of BiH are, in fact, the subject to which they can rely on Western values and which can be the leader of the practice of these Western values that are primarily characterized by Euro-Atlantic integrations. And finally, if I had a little joke, my colleague Kovac had just said, that it would be good for every year for the Croatian to go to America and Canada, I would like us from the board to do so, but the Croatian National Assembly presidency limited us to just one visit abroad a year. Thank you very much. And of course, we support this report and the HDZ Club will continue to realise.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54156	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Mr. Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54157	Mr Ljubic, you said that these Euro-Atlantic integrations mean the EU and NATO pact represents some, as far as I understand, high values. However, these values represented by the EU and NATO pact are not sublime values, these are humiliating values. In particular, the EU denies the democracy of small peoples, as once did in Moscow, the directives are now coming from Brussels, those are directives that cannot be decided in the Parliament but which must be adopted. There was more democracy in Yugoslavia than there was in the EU because there was a need for every country or republic to first adopt a law in order for it to be accepted for the whole of Yugoslavia, and in the EU it is the other way around. There in Brussels these bureaucrats make decisions then all countries must do so. As far as the NATO Pact is concerned, you all know the bloody role of NATO in world conflicts and that their aim is not to spread freedom and democracy but rather to exploit the resources of third-world countries, or subjugate those countries towards US will and domination. The desire of each individual must be for freedom and democracy, unfortunately the EU and NATO do not offer it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54158	Replication response, Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54159	Comrade Pernar, I know that neither the EU nor NATO are an earthly paradise nor utopia, but compared to the dystopia we see in the world in other areas it is still a better direction for the Republic of Croatia. As for the wars, therefore, wars on the globe did not begin when NATO was founded but the EU's foundation and foundation of NATO did not seem to me on the globe to enjoy as many periods of global peace as we now have. Of course, we also have wars, unfortunately in various parts of the world, but here we are not lucky since '45. So to say, global wars, even though some today are inclined to say that today some kind of world war is being waged with some other means. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia does not have a better environment or the whole region that we are talking about often, which includes BiH, our neighbourhood southeast, from the EU and its governance standards, in protecting human rights, in protecting if you want and national rights because the EU is actually a community of sovereign states. On the other hand, we don't have a bar for Croatia, I would say, a better environment of defence than NATO, and in any case I always stick to the one "Trust in and in my own pecs", which we will be stronger internally and economically and socially and politically, and also in defence, so we will be respected both NATO and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54160	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr. Miles, will give the final word of the motion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here are just a few sentences at the end, so this debate today on the Report of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the differences, is certain that some colleagues have said, and the message that we are slowly understanding the importance of this issue and that we are slowly moving towards a common position, or consensus, of those crucial, crucial issues concerning our people of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. As close as you were to what the government and the office as part of the government were promoting, I will now read through the letter that Mr Plenkovic sent to the newly elected members of the council at the meeting of the Government of Croatia on 7 September where he said that the task of strategic interest was to find legal solutions and relevant rules to facilitate the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for members of Croatian people, their descendants and spouses, the appropriate exercise of voting rights, the possibility of introducing a letter vote and the continued finding of new and better means of cooperation. So, that's what we've been talking about here all along, and I hope that we'll be really together, that we'll be constructive and all that we'll do, I think we should work together with the Croatian Committee, with the Matica of Croatian emigrants, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I would ask and pray if you see that this is a good and right direction to forget our party and others so that I can say disagreements and that when it comes to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia we are truly unique in what is good for them and for the Republic. Thanks again, everybody, and I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54162	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your briefness. And at the end of 14 hours and 7 minutes, we have another agenda point. We'll continue at 14.20. It's 14, 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54163	Annual report on the implementation of the strategy and the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2016. The applicant is the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working body, I am giving the next conclusion. The Annual Report on the Implementation of the Strategy and the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 113 for, 4 abstentions and 4 against the conclusion reached in line with the proposal of the Assembly home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54164	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, for family, youth and dispute, for health and social policy, and the Government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Mr. Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54165	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Protection of Publicity against Infectious Diseases. It is necessary to say that we do two things here in our first reading. The first thing is that vaccination from the current legal situation where it is mandatory becomes recommended. It's another thing to do, to do a criminal sentence with an unvaccinated person. Let's move in line before I explain our legal proposal in detail. I'm going to say this initiative, it's not lonely at all, we have the support of a certain part of the expert public. The initiative also has the support of the Croatian Association for the Promotion of Patients' Rights, the Civil Initiative Vaccination of Election Rights, and a number of others who have today sent their support in this law reading. Also, before I begin to explain, it is certainly necessary to say that this initiative is never and never against vaccination, it is for the right to vote, for the right to vote both in one or the other, but it has a very similar form of 14 EU countries, and other non-member countries such as Iceland, Switzerland and Norway. So, countries where there is no mandatory vaccination are Austria, Cyprus, Denmark Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Iceland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Great Britain and this legal proposal follows this particular model. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases provides for the obligation to immunise vaccines against those infectious diseases for the categories of the population that are determined. Provisions Art. 41. It is prescribed that immunisation is performed by a doctor of medicine after examination of the person to be immunized. I did the examination procedure, it was prescribed by the rules on how to conduct the immunization... against infectious diseases, and persons to be subject to that obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a national newspaper in 103 in 2014 that's a very well-known rule. Article 10 of Regulation on the way immunisation is carried out, it is prescribed that immunisation against certain infectious diseases is not subject to the person in whom the physician determines that there are contraindications prescribed by the Regulation. They are prescribed Article 11. a as one of the contraindications, the hypersensitivity of the vaccine component is also indicated. Hypersensitivity to the components of the vaccine according to Art. 12 of this same regulation, which I quote, is determined by a doctor who performs immunisation by an examination of the person to be immunized. Among Croatian citizens, a part of the scientific public has been reported recently, there have been opposition to immunisation, which is prescribed as an obligation rather than a recommendation. Concern is largely present in the parents of minor children, for whom vaccination obligations exist, and this is the case. due to the fact that when determining the potential hypersensitivity of the child to the components of the vaccine, a review is used as a method. Despite the existing medical ability to test for hypersensitivity to the components of the vaccine. Furthermore, the management and requirement of a number of parents of children subject to vaccine obligations, in order to allow them the right to an informed consent. The informed consent shall include the right of the patient to be informed of the purpose and nature of the procedure, as well as possible consequences and risks. It is also important to mention legally the decision, to which the patient is guaranteed by a number of international and domestic regulations which I will subsequently state, which includes the right of the patient to inform and the right to accept or refuse a particular diagnostic, i.e., treatment procedure. The basic amendments we make in this bill are as follows. First, immunisation is no longer prescribed as an obligation, but as a recommendation of those diseases. Second, for the purpose of achieving the right of patients to informed consent and co-decision, the obligation of a doctor who performs immunisation to inform the person or parents, i.e. the guardian of a child for whom immunisation is recommended for the following. Infectious diseases against which they are carried out, possible benefits or risks of carrying out immunisation, name, composition and manufacturer of the vaccine. Other possible methods of prevention of infectious disease against which immunisation is recommended and finally, the right of the person or parents, i.e. the guardian of the child, for whom immunisation is recommended to perform hypersensitivity tests, vaccine components, prior to the decision to access immunisation, and other medical aspects of the immunisation process. Third, the rights of the person or parents, i.e. the guardian of the child, for whom immunisation is recommended, are prescribed to accept or refuse the recommended immunisation after medical information has been obtained. Fourthly, each person for whom immunisation is recommended, before immunisation itself, has the right to perform tests, to hypersensitivity, to the components of this vaccine. The fifth, as I said in the introduction, is deleted criminal responsibility and fine for a parent, or guardian of a child who does not access immunization. A trail of numerous reports of citizens and patients whose rights are frequently violated as well as an analysis of the implementation of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, we have no doubt that the following is necessary. First of all, to comply with all the provisions of this law with the applicable legal order in the Republic of Croatia and with the international contracts governing this area, which have become part of the internal law of the Republic of Croatia. Improve and refresh certain normative solutions especially in relation to the protection of the right to free and informed pressure of each patient, the consent of each patient especially when specific public protection measures are applied against infectious diseases. With a high level of protection of human health and protection of public-health interests. The provisions of this law, which we point out below, are not in line again with the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and in part with the EU's legal system. I will now briefly state with which legal provisions, laws or conventions our Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases are not in line. First of all, the Law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of biology and medicine, i.e. the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, can be found in the National Journal under the work of the 2003 International Treaties. This Convention, in accordance with the Constitution, has supremacy, and according to the legal law, it is above this law. The preamble contains, among other things, the primate of human beings, interests and welfare of human beings above the very interest of society or science, and our regulations must comply with that convention that we have signed. The second document, i.e. an important legal act with which our Law on the Protection of Population and Infectious Diseases is not harmonised is the General Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights adopted in 2005 at the UNESCO General Conference. It reads in article 6, which deals with consent, quotes: “Any preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic medical intervention can only be carried out with prior and free consent from the person concerned, which implies obtaining sufficient information. When appropriate, the person concerned should express his consent and may withdraw it at any time and for any reason without adverse consequences or damage." The end of the quote. The following law, i.e. the legal act with which our Law on the Protection of the public, is not consistent with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Croatia is a de facto member of the EU and there have been different harmonisations of laws and regulations. However, as we can see here, there is a certain dissimilarity, so in Chapter I which speaks of dignity, Article 3 which speaks of the right to personal integrity states: “In the field of medicine and biology, in particular, the following must be respected: The free and informed consent of the person concerned in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the law. This Charter constitutes the primary right of Europe." It is also necessary to mention the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, which was changed twice in 2004 and the eighth year. That's where Article 6 states the right to co-determination. The right to co-determination of patients shall include the right of patients to be informed and the right to accept or refuse certain diagnostic or therapeutic procedures. Furthermore, Article 8 on the right of notification states that the patient has the right to complete notification of recommended checks and procedures, possible advantages and risks of carrying out or not performing checks and procedures, the freedom to decide on recommended checks and procedures, possible replacements for recommended procedures and others. It also states in Article 16 that the patient has the right to accept or refuse a particular diagnostic, or therapeutic procedure except in the event of an unsustainable medical intervention whose failure would endanger the life and health of the patient or cause permanent damage to his health. The next legal act that our Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases is not harmonised and the Health Protection Act has been amended a dozen times. There, health care professionals are persons who have a health education and directly in the form of occupation provide health care to the public with the obligation to respect moral and ethical principles of health professions. It also states in Article 200 that a fine of between 10 and 50,000 kuna is punishable for a violation of the health care facility if it violates those rights. There is also a Law on Medicine that is in collegiate with the Law on the Protection of Publicity and Infectious Diseases. It says that all medical prevention, diagnostics and treatment procedures must be planned and implemented in such a way as to safeguard human dignity, the integrity of the person and the rights of the patients, and in particular the right to information and independent decision-making. It should also mention the code of medical ethics and delinthology. It says there that the doctor is disciplinaryly responsible if he violates the provisions of the law, violates the code of medical ethics and deontology of the chamber. It also reads in Article 2 of this article that social, mental, and conscious patients will be respected for their well - informed, freely accepted, or rejected by a particular doctor, or recommended medical care. When a patient is unable to decide, his representative decides. Reviewing and providing medical assistance to children and minors will be done with the consent of parents or guardians. And point 9 is the doctor's obligation to show an understanding of the patient's concerns, to properly inform the patient about the condition of those for whom the patient has granted approval or his representatives, and to cooperate with him on the patient's benefit. We also have a conflict in the rules on how to implement immunisation, seroprofilaxes, chemoprofilaxes, and anti-infectious diseases, as well as those that must be subject to this obligation, which I have already mentioned earlier. There is an article 11th contraindication for immunisation against any of certain infectious diseases are acute diseases,... the conditions and hypersensitivity to the components of the vaccine in point 3. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have now briefly listed the cohesion, legal conflict between the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases with conventions, codes and other laws that are in force in the Republic of Croatia, although the Republic of Croatia had to ratify the above-mentioned Convention in a way that the law is harmonised, this has not been done to date. The fact is, therefore, that parents are not sufficiently informed about all the warnings contained in the manufacturer’s instructions on the specific vaccine. The majority of the complainants have just pointed out the problem that not only does no one warn them, but even worse, in situations where they require the enforcement of their legal right in the light of the determination of a hypersensitivity component of the vaccine and the demand for concrete information on the vaccine and vaccination, before it happens, they experience a number of inconveniences, they simply remain without any concrete answers. It's a common case of practice I'll explain later. Instead of exercising the right to information, how they are given rules governing patients' rights, they experience harsh violations of the rights mentioned and indirect violation of the rights of children they represent, most often as parents. In this growing group, there are also numerous parents who demonstrate their willingness to provide their child with the highest possible level of health within the right to health care. I would further point out that Article 55(2) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 is applicable. The rules on immunisation relating to the vaccination of children in schools are prescribed as follows. Whenever organisational opportunities are allowed, a prior meeting with parents of children who are subject to vaccination should be held. It is therefore questionable in the number of schools and in which cases this Regulation is respected, or in which number of cases the information of the parents on vaccination, the composition of the vaccine, the purpose of vaccination, possible adverse consequences, some alternative vaccines, those offered or other means of prevention of a disease, so how many such educations have been made. From what I've said, I'm going back to two initials. The healthcare user shall have the right to a certain amount of information necessary to make an informed decision on the recommended medical treatment. And, of course, the healthcare user has the right to accept or reject the doctor’s proposal or recommendation because the right to refuse the proposed procedure is the other side of the right that can give consent and actually makes up the whole. This is a taste of what we have proposed in this law, and what happens in practice is next. A certain number of parents have negative experience when they seek information, information they must receive under the law, as patients, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Their right also protects domestic laws, international conventions. So, before accessing a medical procedure, or in this case immunisation, doctors should inform on their request what kind of medicine they are getting, what its positive sides are, what its negative sides are, if there is any alternative. There are cases that this does not happen, that parents' demands are ignored, ridiculed, minorized, ignored, the whole problem is ignored, or only one side shows up. There are cases where it's very difficult to get any information from the medical staff. The state has prescribed an immunisation, vaccination obligation, however, it has almost no responsibility at all. No drug in the world is perfect. If any side effects occur, it is very difficult to connect or the health system is very difficult to admit that this is related to their medical procedure. Therefore, we have an obligation but we have no rights. And it's an unfair relationship. In recent weeks and in recent years we can read articles about how cleavage has failed in Croatia. Vaccination falls especially in children precisely because there is a lack of confidence in the system. So, if a parent goes to a pediatrician and has to, as prescribed by the regulations, vaccinate a child, if he doesn't feel safe with a doctor, if he can't get information, if ignored, if his basic rights are violated, patients' rights, of course there is a lack of confidence in the system. And just that growing mistrust is the cause of the decline of fissure in the Republic of Croatia. Western European countries that have introduced some and long ago, therefore the recommendation, instead of the obligation, record high rates of cleavage. So here we have statistics from the World Health Organization that are updated every July. Let's say the statistics for Germany, we have here a dozen kinds of vaccines that are in their plan. We have, for example, 2016 DTP data 95% cleavage, MCV 93% cleavage, POL 394% cleavage, very easy to find these statistics. And on the Internet and publications, you can get them from HZZ. One beautiful table, all the countries of the world that are covered, all the years back, while the state exists and by a single vaccine that is already in which the country is prescribed, you can see how much the percentage of the fissure is. We have data here for both Sweden and some other countries. I therefore call on the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public to discuss this issue. As far as I know, this is the way the theme has never been opened, especially at this level. I expect we'll all make our arguments. We remain on demand that this law be passed. It will allow for high fissure to remain on the one hand, where Western countries have a similar system, and on the other hand patients' rights will be respected. I don't know why we got in a situation, to choose or, or... We'll either have a mandatory vaccination, so this way we'll violate the right patients or we'll have both. We can have both. Here's so much for now from the proposer. We'll further supplement our presentation, on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54166	Thank you very much. We have replicas, the first Mr. Chelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Sincic, it is not true that this topic is not being discussed, this topic is being discussed very intensively in professional circles for the past few years. This topic was also discussed on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, where not once, twice, where no vote on these amendments was received at the last vote of the Committee members. I think that in the Croatian Parliament we should discuss and that it is good that you have launched this initiative. These are questions that we can never, unfortunately, reach agreement, in the way that some other topics are achieved. And I dare say that in some way there are similarities to the issue of abortion, for or against, as a matter of legalization and cannabis, for or against, which you have also set in motion. And this is actually a crucial question, whether the state has a right, to make payments with the moral choice of individuals. We have a two-right conflict here. Therefore, the right of parents to care for children according to their beliefs and the right of the child to health. When we talk about these rights, it should be mentioned, the Constitutional Court's decision of 30.1.2014, where a decision is made according to this solution, that a decision on the vaccination of children is not the right of parents. Because there's no such thing as a real parent anywhere in the Constitution. Therefore, and it should be noted, therefore, that there is a provision of a constitution whereby freedoms and rights can be limited, in order to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, and legal order, public morality and health. So it's also a question of free choice, whether I have to tie myself to the belt, because I don't want to get attached. Do I have to wear my helmet like a motorcycle, do I have to pay income tax?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54168	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Thank you very much. Mr. Sincic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54169	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, I have listed among other legal acts against which our Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases is not in line. There is also a convention that I have stated, which is stronger than our law and has long been brought into harmony. So, legally speaking, the changes were long to occur and legally speaking, what I said stands. You also mentioned the Constitutional Court's verdict, that is, the decision, is not about deciding constitutionality. The Constitutional Court only accepted the opinion of the Ministry of Health, i.e. health, but did not decide on the issue of constitutionality, the freedom of the vaccine. Such an argument and submission is a decision, yet to be decided. I recommend that the lawyers explain it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54170	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sincic, you in your final part actually, perhaps unconsciously gave an argument as to why the possibility should not be abolished, i.e. to change the law and the way you propose. So you stated that there are more European countries where vaccination is not mandatory than it is left to parents to decide for themselves. But right away, you said there was a 95 percent cleavage there, 95%. Well, that's actually a key argument. When parents decide for themselves and 95% of their children are vaccinated. And that's proof that vaccination is useful and that the damages are far less than the benefits they bear. And because of that, your law should not be accepted. We are in such a society in which optionalness certainly wouldn't lead to an increase in fissure. And that's the key problem. So, we can now spend the next year enlightening our public and at some point say that there is no longer any such obligation, when our citizens are so aware that they realize how important it is that their children are being vaccinated. You said there was also a significant percentage of the professional public who supported your proposals. I wouldn't agree with that. This is one group of people who, among other things, went to the European Parliament's elections, received 0.67% of the votes, which is almost a statistical error, and a whole number of professional companies do not support your request. So, I will list the key, Croatian Epidemiological Society, Croatian Society of Prevention and Social Pediatrics, Croatian Society of Family Doctors, Croatian Society of Infectious Diseases, Croatian Society of School and University Medicine, Croatian Pediatric Society, Croatian Medical Chamber. They all think nothing needs to be changed. And also, as counterpart Celic said, the Constitutional Court issued a solution that does not accept a proposal to initiate a consent assessment procedure through the system of the Public Protection Act against infectious diseases related to the vaccine.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54172	Thank you. Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54173	Thank you, Vice President. So you've stated that there's been 95% appraisal in the countries that I've listed. I didn't mean that to only children, so that's one general data. If you look at statistics for Croatia, where the profession now claims that the vaccination of children has fallen below 90%, children as one segment within the population. However, if we look at the entire population, that fissure is about 95%. We've got the exact information right here. I don't know what you're saying is that if we introduced a recommendation instead of a commitment in order to bring a cleavage fall in Croatia. Here I hope that through this debate you will explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54174	Thanks for the short one, too. Mrs. Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is, did you vaccinate your child and have you been vaccinated? The next thing I checked again, so the Croatian Association for the Promotion of Patients' Rights, which is the most serious association dealing with these matters, has practically excluded the president, is no longer a member of the association you are calling on, and this association is absolutely still for this mandatory way of vaccination as the most effective way to prevent infectious diseases. You mentioned the existence of hypersensitivity. So I would just like to tell you that the existence of hypersensitivity to the ingredients of the vaccine means that it is already known or there is a high suspicion based on a history or medical record that the child is hypersensitive to some of the ingredients of the vaccine, and therefore cannot be received, or can not be administered, if its use is necessary to receive this under controlled hospital conditions with previous treatment of allergologists. Therefore, before each vaccination, the physician should assess itself that if there is a suspicion of hypersensitivity and ask a few simple questions whether the child has had an earlier reaction to the previous dose of the vaccine, and if it has been assessed whether it may have been a result of hypersensitivity, whether the child is allergic to any medication or food and what the child’s medical condition is, and whether there is a history or medical record of suspicion of a disease that is worsening due to contact with allergens. Therefore, nowhere in the world children are tested for the ingredients of the vaccine before its administration in order to demonstrate inconsistencies of hypersensitivity if there is no reason to suspect this hypersensitivity and inability and incompetence of the requirement for routine determination of hypersensitivity is also reflected in the fact that, according to that same principle, such processing should be carried out prior to the introduction of each particular food in the diet of the child before each medicinal product is administered to the child, before each cosmetic preparation is used because for both food and medicine and various creams and shampoos for babies, and not only for the vaccine. that their use is contraindicated in case of hypersensitivity [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Strenja Linic, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54176	Mr. Sincic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54177	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Strenja Linic, you've said a lot. I won't be able to replicate everything. I hope you will repeat what I did not replicate during the debate. They cannot agree that everyone would ask for a counter-indication test if we introduced that possibility and to collapse the health system. A large percentage of parents, or subjects subject to vaccination, are now accessing such a procedure without questioning it. The problems are huge in information. So I don't see why the medical staff isn't always able or doesn't know or wants to inform patients about what they're getting, about what the positive sides are, what the negative sides are. You asked if I was vaccinated, yes. I was vaccinated in accordance with the regulations that existed at the time of my birth, that is, my education, as far as I'm aware. As for my child, I use the principle I stand for in this law for my children. Therefore, after consulting a pediatrician, I choose my own doctors to take a vaccine, not take it, or find an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54178	Thank you, too. Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Pernar, first and foremost, I'm sorry, Sincic, and I'm sorry. First and foremost, I find it commendable that you say you support the vaccinated as such, so that you do not oppose him. But you said that citizens have no confidence in the system and that they are looking for a right, an option to choose. I would ask if you could explain or assess to me how many citizens, or what share of the citizens you communicate with, would you refuse to vaccinate yourself or your child if you had the right to do so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54180	Thank you, too. Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54181	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament I didn't answer? [[Intruder Radin: You haven't answered this time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54182	No, I don't. But you'll find a way to answer later. Mr. Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54183	Dear counterpart Sincic, often in the Croatian public, the thesis for the Living Wall is only criticised that the Living Wall does not make any concrete proposals. The thesis is like that of Gabels if the lie is repeated often enough becomes the truth trying to impose on the Croatian public. However, it is this legislative proposal that we are proposing as a party, meaning that the adoption of evidence that the Living Wall is not a party that advocates only criticism without concrete proposals. This example will show that the parties who are always complaining that we are only criticising, and we are not making concrete solutions, this example will show that these parties are lying, or that these parties are not interested in our proposals at all. In other words, that it is not a constructive criticism that we are making to the ruling regime, but we are making very concrete proposals that they refuse to adopt for political reasons. I am glad that Croatian citizens see this duel, this debate and finally realize that HDZ is lying all the time when it says that the Living Wall is not making concrete proposals. Dear ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Sincic and the rest of us have made a very concrete proposal on very specific matters. And you can keep saying that we don't make concrete suggestions, but this proposal denies yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54184	Thank you very much. Mr. Sincic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54185	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're extremely constructive, although often they don't want to show us that way. This law is one of a dozen laws that we have passed in the last year, that is, which we will surrender by the end of this year. I'm also going to use this replica to answer Mr. Varga's question, so what percentage of people is the percentage with which we communicate, or who wanted us to represent them to present this question, to propose this law. I can't tell you exactly, of course, because I haven't come across a study that would therefore accurately define how much the public's desire to amend this law is, I would very much like to see that data. However, as in many other segments in Croatia, we do not have enough statistics, we do not have enough research. This topic is just, so it's getting up to date and it's good to discuss it and hopefully we'll still discuss it a few times. However, I would have made one free assessment, if the profession had said, a scientific profession, that the fissure of children had fallen below about 90% of this year then I would have estimated that the share of citizens who want this law to change, this time between 5 and 10% with the trend of growth. It is our conclusion, therefore, that this proposal has also been sent to the procedure that due to the fall of confidence in the system due to and repression, inability to enrol in kindergarten, because of the punishment in the criminal court, for insufficient information and for the fact that any question is considered to be an attack on the authority of the doctor that this is why there has been some kind of resistance and demand for additional information that the system should be given. I believe that we can also have high fissure and that at the same time we can respect patients' rights as advanced Western countries do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54186	Thank you, too. We're done with the replicas. And now does he have a proposal? No, he won't take his word for it. And now we're going to move on to representatives' clubs. So in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Mrs Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54187	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues from the ministry and these few MPs who apparently stayed Friday afternoon because they think this is a very important story. Thanks, you didn't even hear what I said, maybe I will. So today is a very well - known attitude of the profession. And I'm sorry that you keep calling on people of the kind of Ice cream that I don't know what they're up to, but when a man looks at this whole context wider, the result will be that he doesn't really love our children and this country and he's bitter. So today is the very well-known attitude of the medical profession around the world and in Croatia, and it is complex. And this is said by the world's numerous global organisations from the UN, through Unicef to the European Commission, that vaccination is one of the most effective methods of preventing diseases whose well-being far exceeds the potential risks of disease. Vaccination continues, meaning the introduction of vaccinations is the most successful public health measure that saves and saves more human lives than any other medical intervention in the history of medicine. Some vaccinations protect only the vaccinated person, hence tetanus vaccination, and some vaccines may also prevent the circulation of the disease within the population, thus protecting the unvaccinated person. vaccination against children, it's vaccination against polio and measles. So you're also protecting people within that population, those children who, because of their contraindications, the diseases they carry with them cannot receive the vaccine. Thus, systematic vaccination of children prevents many deaths, hospitalisation and permanent disability in children around the world and so on in Croatia. The great goddesses have therefore been eradicated not because of increased hygiene but because of vaccination. Global eradication of polio is near, and diseases such as neonatal tetanus, tuberculosisl meningitis, measles and rubella are practically in the Republic of Croatia and eradicated. All you need to see is the consequences of a pregnant woman carrying an unborn child who gets tuberculosis. So these are such malformations of the child that actually it's horrifying to think that you could have protected that pregnant woman by the simple vaccination of those children found in her environment if she couldn't have been vaccinated. The constitutional duty of the state is to protect the health of people, especially children to the Convention on the Rights of the Child because you are constantly referring to all these laws, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to the recognition of the child's right to enjoy the highest possible level of health including preventive health care. So three years ago, an initiative was launched that we already said about the assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. And the Constitutional Court has indeed rejected such a request because it did not find in the law elements that would be contrary to the Constitution. The decision to vaccinate children is not and cannot be the only right, only the right of parents. The right of a child to health above is the right of parents to choose. Information that a significant number of parents in Croatia would give up vaccination if vaccination was not a legal obligation is extremely worrying and this trend is present. The sanctification of the population and knowledge of vaccination in Croatia is not at the level of developed European countries. Unfortunately, under the cover of fighting for freedom of choice, a small but very exposed group of populations is spreading amongst young vaccine misinformation, causing unwarranted openness and fear of vaccination. We've all been bombed for the last few days, we've all been members of the Assembly committee bombed by e-mails, threats, threats, that we want to threaten, that we're practically, that we're murderers of children, and that's all happening to whoever dares to say that mandatory vaccination should be kept. We're not that aggressive, and maybe we should. In addition, in order to reduce the strength of professional arguments, they unduly accuse the entire medical profession of co-operation with vaccine manufacturers and claim that doctors are not interested in the health of the population but rather in the personal benefit of the profits of the pharmacology industry. That's what Sladolev said on several occasions in the media and spoke, even at the Open in the Last. As a result, a certain percentage of young people no longer know who to trust because in a large amount of contradictory information and disinformation available in the media, social networks and by the exposed individuals, they are not able to assess who to trust, especially when they call for scientific articles. And then we who are in some way in that science, then we see in what obscenities such articles are published. Not relevant. In Croatia, vaccination according to the vaccination calendar is mandatory for all children who do not have medical contraindication for vaccination, I have previously indicated to you who should be hypersensitive and who should be examined. Therefore, parliamentarians, as a legislative authority, are under pressure under the pressure of the previously mentioned groups that are under cover for freedom of choice against vaccination while at the same time under pressure from the works of the public who is undecided and confused by the multitude of contradictory information. It is unquestionable that parents are just out of fear for the child’s health and have launched this initiative, and it is clear that the best interests of the child should be taken into account. That is why parents need to hear the right information because the problem is not in them, but in disinformation. It is therefore essential to make it clear that mandatory vaccination is necessary and that the opportunistic approach, i.e. by not taking the stand by and by the legislative authorities, would allow further dissemination of inadequate and incomplete information which is not scientifically and professionally justified. From the middle of the last century to this day, vaccination nearly completely eradicated a series of dangerous and deadly diseases, as I have already said both tetanus and cartilage and polio to mums and rubella. I'm looking at patients like that, you may not be in a situation, but it's terrible to see actually when you get a middle-aged man today with terrible consequences of polio. Because it wasn't vaccinated at the time. And that's something you wear for the rest of your life. There aren't many people like that anymore, but once you saw them, they'd remember you. Maintaining such a result depends on the continuous cleavage of the non-immune population as long as the call is present in the environment and in the population. At the same time, the position of the profession is clear and, as Professor Jovanovic has already said, it was evident that a number of the most relevant experts in our medical, scientific and professional public in Croatia. And I'd just like to tell you. There are numerous examples of what happens when the vaccine covers a significant fall. Like the current outbreak of measles in Italy recently, 2,000 sufferers and more than 5,000 sufferers in Romania, with 25 fatalities. Also, death from diphtheria of an unvaccinated boy in Spain and the recent case of an unvaccinated boy in Slovenia who ended up on a respirator due to tetanus and barely survived. They should be big enough to warn us again if we are under the influence of a number of misinformation that floods us and if we start making decisions on the non-vaccination of our children. I therefore call once again on anyone who has any doubts and questions about vaccination, to obtain verified information and make an informed decision to address those who are professionally and scientifically involved in vaccination on a daily basis. So, if the scope of vaccination in Croatia is reduced, if we put it in some way, every parent's decision, she would not want you to have a bad colleague, Sincic, and your child, because you are not professional enough to assess which vaccine you will give to your child or not, it depends on who you were talking to. So these doctors, too, I don't believe they told you against vaccination, but you've decided anyway this vaccine I'm going to give to my child, this vaccine isn't. Therefore, a high level of enlightenment and enlightenment of education for people from school to age can be achieved that vaccination should no longer be prescribed by a forced legal norm. At this point we're forced to do it. The way to this is long, as is our long way to the level of standards and information of Scandinavian countries and countries of type, in fact, Denmark in which medicine itself and what is invested in medicine by the main inhabitants, far, far different from us. Therefore, only by constant work can the desired effect be achieved and by then the legal norm represents the correct and only legitimate act of society in the fight for the health of individuals and populations. So it'll probably be a lot of replicas, but I'd end up with this, so I'll answer your questions later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54188	Thank you very much. A few replicas, the first Mr. Sincic. And you answered? I'm sorry, Bun, okay, okay. My bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54189	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues Strenja-Linić, here during this debate we heard the question of how many citizens were vaccinated for the choice of vaccination, how much for mandatory vaccination, so we may not have professional statistics from the state office, but we have some statistics regarding the verification of public opinion carried out by renowned agencies in the Republic of Croatia, so here is one that was conducted by RTL TV and the Pulp Promotion Agency. He says only 53% of Croatian citizens support mandatory vaccination and 47% do not support them. What might be interesting for you, then, is that those voters most advocated the freedom of choice of vaccination are MOST voters. So you here now as a representative of the Most, even speaking on behalf of their club, speak the diametrically opposite attitudes of those expected by your voters. So please, when you already have the need to educate the members of the Living Wall, give your members an education first, call a thematic lecture workshop and explain to your members that there is no need for the freedom of vaccination and then come and educate us. And I'm glad your voters can now open their eyes, and it's not the first time they've had opportunities, so they can see what kind of attitudes the party they're voting for and who are therefore diametrically contrary to what they expect. Well, as far as the Bridge and your grades are concerned, I think you're on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54190	Mrs. Strenja Linic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54191	All Assembly representatives of the Mosta represent only, relevant, current and justified opinion, which is that vaccination must remain mandatory. I appreciate RTL television, but when you don't know who's going to report to that poll, how this questionnaire is structured, you can't expect to have some kind of scientific background. You jumped in your own mouth when you said the percentage, if it wasn't mandatory, you wouldn't have been vaccinated. That's the problem. It would be good if they all said, and if it wasn't mandatory, we 95% would be inoculating our children. So, we must, if your parents do not understand, at this point we must keep under control, potential epidemics within Croatia, and also protect those children who cannot receive the vaccine, and they must also live and in some ways survive in the world, in the environment, be exposed to that virus. Because there is, in some ways, the spread of that common immunity. I'm sorry, obviously, those who said they were the Bridge voters, so they're against vaccination, they should have cast a voice to the Living Wall, so I feel free to ask them to do so if they want to be against vaccination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54192	Thank you, too. Mr. Steel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54193	Thank you. My colleague Linic agrees with you and the opinion of the medical profession is absolutely necessary that vaccination remains mandatory. But here I will remind, therefore, that from the very beginning, when vaccination against the great goddess was introduced to the Napoleonian province of Pamplon and Luke, it was not just a medical question. That's why I welcome the Initiative of the Living Wall and invite my colleague Pernar to be tolerated, not to use harsh words in this House of Commons. So, I welcome the initiative, it's supposed to be debated in the Whisky House, I don't support it. But, therefore, it should also be said, since the middle of the 19th century, anti-vaccination movements have been formed in Britain, which have been fighting vaccinations. Even some lawyers say it's the beginning of administrative law as science because it's the first time we've mentioned nanny states... where the state intervenes in some way in the family life of citizens and takes care of their health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So for those of us who are doctors, this is primarily a medical question and this medical dimension cannot be eliminated in any way from this debate. On the contrary, she is the dominant. However, here from the very beginning, from the beginning of the 19th century, this has been debated among politicians, and this should be discussed and it is good to discuss this too because we will also contribute to education. I am convinced that many people look and believe that after this debate, those who have so far been against mandatory vaccination, that some will change their minds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54194	I'd like to take Mrs. Strenja Linic for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54195	I'd just like to relate to the situation of health care professionals. So, doctors when they mention a fine of £2,000, for refusing vaccination, they don't threaten. They're just professionally doing their job and fulfilling their legal duty. I can also tell you that a pediatrician who is upstairs in Varazdin County was faced with major parental threats, who refused to vaccinate her child against tuberculosis in the maternity ward, and that child in the first months of life, still got tuberculosis, which can end in such a child, and deadlyly. And then they accused her, sent her to court, that she still hadn't informed them enough about how mandatory vaccination was supposed to be, necessarily vaccinated. So, I'd also like to point out that we have a problem with these other parents. So parents and vaccinations have the right to ask their children not to go to kindergarten or school with unvaccinated children. Because you also have those children who are vaccinations and who can also be exposed to diseases that this unvaccinated child will bring with him. So when we talk about highly divided countries, we need to know what these countries are about. As well, these days we are faced with information that happened in Kosovo where the fissure fell and then the epidemics started. In Dalmatia the fissure is slowly dropping and we are faced with, that certain and religious even certain groups of anti-vaccination movements, trying in some way to explain to parents and this fissure has fallen, which may very quickly, Dalmatia is the closest to that crash, can result in epidemics. Therefore, it will never be enough for those of us who feel that mandatory vaccination is required to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54196	Thank you, Mrs. Linic. Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54197	Thank you very much. So regarding the discussion of Ms. Strenja Linic, who spoke about the rights of the child, I will repeat once again, that the argument we heard from my colleague Sincic, where in countries where it is not mandatory vaccination is the fissure of 95%, is a message he would like the public to hear. Most of all, to hear that message. So, the antivaccinalists are talking about the dangers of the vaccine, they're talking about the vaccine deficiency and they're asking for the vaccine not to be required. And in those countries where it is not mandatory, 95% of children are vaccinated. Well, that's a message, that your parents are convinced that the vaccine is useful to them. And that's why this change in us at this point wouldn't lead to improvement. As for the right child, I'll quote the conclusions of the round table. Vaccination of the child in the context of the right to the highest possible level of health that was held in the Ombudsman's office for children in Zagreb. So, in developed countries that do not have mandatory vaccination, for as many diseases as Croatia, vaccination remains very high and is moving around 95%. They also addressed the issue through different mechanisms, such as incentives, but also restrictions. UNICEF's Convention on the Rights of the Child, to ask the State to recognise children's right to the highest possible level of health and children's rights are above state law. Vaccination is one of the greatest successes of medicine. Fear of him spreads ignorance, but also religious organizations, and the will of parents in that case is not absolute. I think it's a clear message that speaks in front of the children's rights office. And what I still want to say is that she mentioned Mrs. Strenja Linic. So, uh... They claim that today's greater and more successful health is due to hygiene, not vaccination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This can best be illustrated with an example of measles and shrimp. So, in the case of shrimp, despite hygiene, the phenomenon remains high, unlike measles where it is not present, and hygienic opportunities are equal. So, for shrimp, there is no vaccine, there is a measles, and that is the best proof that it is not a hygiene cause of health, more health than just a vaccine.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54198	Thank you very much. Last line, Mr. Pernar. ... Who answered? [[You can't hear it.]] You were the first to answer, and then he told me. Come on, come on, Mr. Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54199	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Strenja Linic, I almost completely reject your debate because she wants to show me and the Living Wall as those who fight against vaccination. Absolutely incorrect, absolute lie. It's a setup. Use symbols like the one asking questions, who's looking for information, who's thinking about whether to switch from mandatory to recommended is against vaccines. It is similar to the one who does not vote for HDZ, does not like Croatia and the like. You use symbols, you connect me to some corporations, Dr. Sladolev, you give cases of pregnant women, a person who unfortunately suffered from polio. These are all tragic fates. However, there are also other stories of children who received therapy, and after that there have been consequences. I'm not saying that they're always the consequences of the vaccine or the vaccination. However, no medication is perfect. But this system that we're witnessing and Priory refuses that such a thing can happen. You prescribe the right and dictate what someone should do to dictate society to an individual, but you do not want to suffer any consequences. To make one doctor, and statistically this must be admitted to being wrong, i.e. that some condition of the child, i.e. the person due to some side effect of the vaccine in Croatia, is very difficult, very long term. And parents who have such fates as sad as those on the opposite side that you described are passing a long and difficult path of terror and ignoring institutions. And that is why we have proposed this law based first on information, informed pressure, information for everyone on a scientific basis, medical science and for opponents and for those who are not opponents and for those who are fighting for the right to vote and for those who are fighting for mandatory vaccination. We always need knowledge and information.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54200	A colleague Sincic, the health system must consider the health care of the entire population, which means that out of 45,000 children in each generation of adverse reactions that are mild and very, very rarely more difficult are at risk. I know it's hard for every parent if a difficult and serious complication occurs with his child. But compared to 300 thousand children, of course there will be an anaphylactic shock in the incidence, that one seizure of convulsions will occur, i.e. seizures. But these complications are also possible when you take Andol, Ibuprofen and Clavocin and all of these medicines, so you can produce a number of side effects. The most common side effects are mild side effects and it is quite logical when you bring in some kind of virus that will also be red, that there will be a fever, that the child will be crying. But they're short-lived and spontaneously passing. Serious side effects occur very rarely. But once again I note the benefits of using the vaccine, I will talk about all vaccines in use in Croatia greatly outweigh the potential risk of side effects. They may be serious, but compared to all those vaccines that we have avoided serious complications and that they are suffering from this disease are unfortunately, I have to say which ones are still negligible. So, for each vaccine, there are absolute contraindications, and before each vaccination, of course, the doctor will warn and see, I have already read to you what is actually the procedure before the vaccination of the child itself. But as I said, the use of the vaccine far outweighs the potential risk of side effects, and that is a risk that is acceptable and which, in fact, the health system that wants to protect the health of the nation must certainly continue in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54201	Thank you. Now we have in front of the Live Wall and Power Club... Take a look. [[You can't hear it.]] I've had two replicas there from you. First I called Mr. Sincic, said no, that's Mr. Bunjac. Then I called you, so you said, so Mr. Sincic is now. All right, here you go. Here you go. But I honestly didn't realize what was going on back there because I called you all three. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54202	Dear Mrs. Strenja Linic, I would like to tell you the story of Mihovila Spranje, who says after the vaccination, I was sick of polio. So when you mention the side effects of the vaccine, you usually only mention some milder occurrences, and never let's say one more serious case. You'll say the side effects are very rare. And look, our colleague, Cresso Beljak, has vaccinated his child. Did you talk to him about what happened after that? So that's one important topic that unfortunately isn't talked about. What we want, we know that if a man is not vaccinated, of course, he is at a certain risk, and if the vaccine is also taking a certain risk. However, we want, we're not here against vaccination, so now a priori, it's a false thesis. We, the Living Wall, are not an antivaccination movement. The living wall is a political party that objectively looks at both sides of the story. The stories of people who have had good experiences and bad experiences. I've been vaccinated in person, I thank God I haven't developed any adverse consequences, thank God, thank God. But what if I were? What if I was paralyzed or God forbid something worse? And what I'm still saying is that the Living Wall is a political party that believes in personal freedom, in the freedom of an individual to consent or not to agree to a particular medical procedure. By your speech you made it clear that MOST is not such a party and that you actually believe in the principle of coercion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54203	Mrs. Strenja-Linić, you haven't called this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54204	What didn't I do?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54205	No, you didn't last time, but we skipped it, you didn't answer. Now we have one problem, says Bunjac, Pernar, now we have to deal right now half-half or have you agreed who will speak? ... How? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, not when you're done. ... [[When I'm done, my colleague Pernar will.]] It's more or less half, half then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54206	Yeah. Here's a nice Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I must agree with my colleague, Sincic, that this debate is going in the wrong direction in a way that some MPs now say, you can't talk about it, this is a medical topic, you're not doctors. Like I'm telling the Parliament right now, you know you can't talk about history because I'm a historian. This is not a topic of medicine, nor does any of us claim to know anything about medicine. I'm telling you, I don't know anything about medicine. But this is a question of human rights and therefore a question of individual freedom which has been debated in public for a number of years, and given that this topic is so present, I have personally both as a citizen and as a parliamentary representative very detailedly informed about it. And I talked to, among other things, a number of lawyers and doctors so I could come to the Parliament and say something about it. So we didn't fall off Mars, we didn't pretend to be doctors, we didn't read the news on some minor portals, and then after that, we sent the law into the procedure. In the end, it wasn't the law that we wrote. I mean, me personally. But when you speak, for example. that the professional public is against this law or respected colleague Jovanovic, here I will tell you that there are a whole series of very prominent scientists, if you allow more prominent than you by at least formal education that supports our initiative. Here, for example. Dr. Science Mateja Černič, e.g. Prof. Dr. Marijan Jost, Prof. Dr. Zivka Juričić, Prof. Dr. Hrvoje Juric, doc. Dr. Hansel Kelam, Prof. Dr. Slavko Kulic, doc. Dr. Drazen Lušić, Prof. Dr. Davor Pavuna, Dr. Science Daria Rupčić, Prof. Dr. Vesna Samobor, Dr. Eugene Shoosh. Please, the director of the immune institution who devoted his entire career to the production of the vaccine, which we can say has the greatest interest in the vaccine, that people are being vaccinated, it supports our initiative. So will you say to him that he is a regular and that he is a populist? And why does he do that? Because he understands other aspects of this story, not just medically. Well, the Living Wall has launched a story about the restoration of the Immunological Institute and you're here trying to base the yellow press, some articles that have come out and who knows whether they were eventually ordered to say that now this is the subject of the Vexer and Anti Vexer. People who are in favor or against. Well, we're just fighting for a bigger cleavage, Mrs. Strenja-Linić, and the rest, for a bigger cleavage. I repeat, for a higher cleavage than for a minor cleavage. Because in these countries that have freedom of choice, so Great Britain, Switzerland, Austria, Germany, Sweden is more split than in Croatia and not less. So now I want to ask you respected MPs, do you want Croatia to be like Sweden, Germany and the UK or do you want it to be like Bulgaria and Romania? Who are our role models? So we'll say here's Bulgaria's mandatory vaccination, let's be like Bulgaria. So I say no, we won't be like Bulgaria, let's be like Germany. Well, I suppose we can conclude that German health care is richer and more developed than in Bulgaria, even society if you will, as a democratic society. You say the interests of the state are above the interests of the individual. You know who used to say that? Do you know which regimes they said the state was above the individual? Those who said the state was one folk. That's what these regimes used to say. And precisely because of such regimes were introduced after World War II, a convention that said that humans should not be experimented with in any way or coerced into anything. Because you know how experiments were conducted until 1945 on humans and without their consent, without consent, without consent. So the Nuremberg Code was introduced for those who don't know. That you can't conduct experiments on people without their consent, and later that same... The code extends to the fact that medical procedures must not be conducted without human consent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'd like to see who would force me to, say, take some treatment if I didn't want to. Here, let's say, I don't know, today, tomorrow, people are offered chemo therapy, and they say you're gonna die. And there are people who just don't want to. They don't want to, and I believe you know people who don't. They don't, they say I'd rather die. It's his right. He has different, some people have, Mr. Jovanovic is making fun of, all the time with religious organizations, but people believe. And why am I slowing down someone's right as a believer to refuse some therapy? The question of his faith is more important to him than medical treatment. Philosophy questions. Some people just don't want to put up with chemo therapy, I don't know what they're like, and they say I don't want to take any more of that extra pain, I'd rather live as long as I can, and that's it. So what now? We grab a man's hand by two hands and by his feet and force him to receive chemotherapy. Does he have the right to refuse? There is. Or every year, I don't know, a flu vaccine is offered. Here, I'd rather lay down the flu than be vaccinated. But, well, I'm an individual, I'm an individual. I'm free, my lord. And you say, of course it's what it's called, the state above. But you see this is a convention that Croatia adopted. I didn't write them, I didn't adopt them, I didn't raise my hand to her. Let's say this convention about, therefore, I have right here quoted, so the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, Article 2 says, quote. The interest and well-being of human beings take precedence over the interests of society or science. There. How do you reconcile this with your views on that society and science are above? We are in a serious debate, and it is very important that we discuss it. We can end this debate this second. But the problem hasn't been solved, because people are interested. Because at this point thousands of people are watching this debate and tens of thousands of people are discussing these issues both on social networks and on the Internet, on the media and on various workshops and private conversations, etc. And this question is real, it's not made up. And I don't understand why everything's trying to be minor. And there were a few cases, which I don't care about, the main thing is that it wasn't me. Why don't the problems that people are struggling with take them seriously? Why aren't they given enough attention? People are afraid, they're worried, but for justifiable reasons, not for some fiction. So let's say you have cases that were pre-2009, an epidemic of swine flu and that all the relevant bodies and vessels brought a metric, that this epidemic was an invention, to force people to vaccinate. And that's not what I said again, that's what legal services, doctors, etc. said. And when people read such information, they are concerned, rightly. So, I want to say that this debate should be taken very seriously into account that it should be taken into account in those frameworks in which it should be located, not only within the frameworks of a profession, and within the frameworks that, not the questionnaires, to which we already know in advance what kind of answer should be given. Now, I'm gonna stop giving Agent Pernar time, so I'm gonna go through an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54207	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I remember when I worked as a medical technician in my mother's office, she's a doctor of general medicine, and I remember when a mother prescribed for treatment, as they say, pneumonia, or, rather, bronchitis of a particular drug. I had bacterial pneumonia myself. And I remember solving it with a simple vitamin C. So I bought it in DM for 13 kn vitamin C has to buy it probably in other stores, in powder, I was taking a third of the teaspoons in the morning, afternoon and evening, and I was healthy. And my mother never, me, if I got sick I'd always drink vitamin C, and other patients when they came into the office, my mom would give them medication. I asked one moment, i.e. What happened, my mother couldn't come to work, my mom told Ivan I'm leaving you an office, I have to leave for a while. I stayed alone in the office, patients were coming, and it was season when the colds were coming and the man was coming, asking me what to do. And I'm not a doctor to prescribe his medicine, and I say, sir, go to DM and buy the most common vitamin C in the powder and tell him this, a third teaspoon. And he says, well, it's possible it's that simple, and I don't have to go to the doctor at all that I just don't need any medication. I say, sir, try, you'll see. And so I made one three or four times. And all those patients came back later and said Ivan thank you very much, we can't believe that this vitamin C such a miracle, we really solved the cold problem, we cured ourselves. Even though we didn't believe you, but we went to try, let's go see. And I ask my mom later, Mom, so why are these people, why are they given colds, for bronchitis these drugs, and not say vitamin C that's much cheaper, etc., she tells me you know, she says if I thought like you, we'd all be out of a job and they'd fall apart, why? Because today’s medicine does not work on the principle that people are as healthy as possible because doctors are not only paid by their heads, or so on. Headline, by the number of patients, rather than by the number of diagnostic-therapy procedures. Look at the hemp oil, it does wonders. Leukemia withdraws, symptoms, or seizures stop, etc. You have a lot of research, you have a lot of living witnesses, it's enough to go to YouTube, you write down, you'll see living witnesses to those claims, or I don't know, not to stop the tremor in Parkinson's disease, etc. However, official medicine simply does not want to allow this type of treatment. Why do I think? Well, obviously because of some interest. Even if we say that 80% of leukemia doesn't cure or 80% of brain tumors, so right now we can try hemp oil and see at the beginning of who it helps and just save it from chemotherapy. But there's no freedom of choice with us at all. And on the other hand, I remember when there was an epidemic of bird flu, there was panic, there was a psychotic atmosphere, then the state ordered 330 million kunas, a million doses of vaccines. What happened to that vaccine? It ended up in the trash, not a dozen of it was spent, etc. I remember she was the Minister of Health in Poland, she said I wouldn't order that vaccine because I see that there's a masculine and fraud here. So, we think and the Priors accept that what pharmaceutical companies say, that's absolutely true. If pharmaceutical companies came back tomorrow with a story about bird flu and said that scientific research said what they were doing, I'm sure the same people who are now pushing for mandatory vaccination would invite people to listen to these companies. I think that our society needs more critical thinking, or that we should pay more attention to the arguments and less attention to these claims by pharmaceutical companies as some sacred cows, religious dogma, malts, which in Catholicism there are religious dogmas, and now there are dogmas in the pharmaceutical industry. And finally, what I want to point out, every thing has its own risk and has its own benefit. Every single thing. So is vaccination. It's like a question of vaccination against regular flu, a year half a million people die of flu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54208	Thank you, too. Now we have a line of replicas. I think Mr. Jovanovic, you've called twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54209	So my first replica is going to my colleague Bunjcu. A friend of Bunjac's...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54210	And no, no, no, in one replica you have to both, I don't think you can have two replicas, no, that's not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54211	Okay, okay, then I'll replicate the two of you. So, my colleague Bunjac, I actually agree with you that this debate is good and I even agree with you that you are not an opponent of vaccination and one of the useful things that may come from this debate, that people need to talk more. Okay, maybe you're right, maybe part of the doctor isn't talking to his patients enough and showing them everything that's important. But you can't because it's a child's right to decide that the child won't be vaccinated. It's his right. We're talking here now about the right child, to get the highest quality health care from which he will be able to live quality and long. And that's why you're wrong when you talk about the reasons you want this law passed. What I especially want to say is that here is talking about some kind of profit from the pharmaceutical industry and that's actually the main reason for these vaccinations. So, I'll just remind you that, at the same time, it's a replica and a colleague of Pernar, that only an antivaccinal movement in America, the total amount is $34 billion. So 34 billion dollars is spent on these diverse aids that have neither been carried out clinical research nor have been spent on the funds that normally go for drugs. So, and that's what Mr. Rudan said, I'm sorry we don't have a chance here right now to show his movie about the epidemics. If there are no more people today who remember how they lived on earth before there were vaccines. 80% of the Aztecs and then the whole community died because of a disease they didn't have a vaccine for. In Europe in the 14th century, every third resident died of the plague. In Australia, 50% of the Aboriginal population died of the great goddesses, no vaccines. We've been living for about 20 years now, thanks to these vaccines.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54212	You can both go two in two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54213	Representative Jovanovic, you've opened a whole series of interesting questions, I can't answer you within two minutes, so I just have to stick to some parts. When you talk about how people are extinct and whose descendants are you? It is a descendant of the vaccinated or unvaccinated, I believe that at least 99% of your ancestors were unvaccinated. Well, you can see that it's not such a terrible situation that humanity wouldn't survive. You've probably heard of the first homo sapiens, a chromaniac who lived in France 40 thousand years ago, graves show that they lived on average in these Cromanions for 70 years. that they weren't vaccinated. I'm not sure that many people experience 70 of us and are vaccinated. But what you say in this part, let's agree that the debate is necessary, then it really is necessary, it is really necessary. Let's just say we ignored one part of it, and I'd like to point it out now, and it's a repression against parents who don't want to vaccinate children. So they're going to get a fine of £2000, they're not allowed to have a child in kindergarten, they're not allowed to see a doctor. Here, we have quite clear and accurate polls, 81% of Croatian citizens oppose repression against parents who do not give vaccination to children, 81%. And then at least that part of the law should be supported, because there are consensus. Here let's say in this section maybe 50-50, but there's a consensus here. So the vast majority of Croatian citizens disagree that doctors refuse not to vaccinate children or that children do not go to kindergarten. And that's the same integral part of this law. And that they're sent to criminal courts or I don't know how to harass and scare everyone, but that's what it's done. That's what you do. I'm more likely to educate people and talk to them, no matter how many times it takes, than to use coercion and these courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54214	Thank you very much. I'm sorry he spent your bonus, I'm sorry. Mr. Steel.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54215	Mr. Vice President. So, pal Bunjac, you come with the car for a technical checkup and there they tell you, you can't go through, you have to fix it and you say that, but I want to go with the car and go on, it doesn't matter what the car is technically wrong. Maybe it's a rough comparison, because a man is a lot, a lot, a whole lot more important than a car, without which we can't do it again. But you mentioned, so in your part of the debate, you pointed out a lack of confidence in the social system. It's one variable. The second variable that my colleague Pernar was talking about, it's a question of the influence of the pharmaceutical lobby, whether medicines are always needed or not. If the debate in which antivaccination movement, gives its contribution to making the vaccine safer, to be less profile of the side effects, I welcome it again. But I think it's necessary to pay a fine when refusing the vaccine. That's where it's mentioned, violation of the child's rights, so... 177. Penalty law. This applies, for example, when a child is seriously ill, it does not refer to vaccination. Although some lawyers feel that it can go so radically to be a crime. The delay in vaccination is possible, but the delay in vaccination is not brought by the parent, it is brought by the doctor. And it decides whether that delay is temporary or whether that delay is permanent. Let the expert do his part of the job. And on the other hand, there are rights and obligations that you speak of. So, this child endangers, which is not vaccinated, we are not jeopardizing ourselves, but is jeopardizing those other children who are in kindergarten and on that side of it is also required to have the inability to enroll in kindergarten for children who are not vaccinations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54216	Mr. Pernar, response to the tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54217	Well, Dr. Jukic, you know, which is a paradox, in the whole situation. The paradox is that our kindergartens, let's say, that I have two children, that one of these children is not vaccinated, and it's healthy and the other has a HIV virus that science says causes ADIS. And now, you in kindergarten, you'll say, this is a child who is healthy, but not vaccinated, it can't go, and a child who has HIV, it's not a danger, i.e. It's less dangerous than a healthy child for other children. And that's your logic. And that's the logic of HDZ. Don't get in my word, please as I speak, don't get in my word... Mr. Jukic, that's the logic of HDZ and that's the logic you're leading. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But my right is democratic, not to agree with you. I'd let both kids into kindergarten. Both healthy child and HIV positive, i.e. healthy unvaccinated and HIV positive, and you in HDZ have some other logic and that is your democratic right. And you're going out with that program, and we're going out with someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54218	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bunjac, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54219	Thank you very much, Vice President. Rules of Procedure 238, during the presentation of MP Pernar, representative Jukic spoke to him, told him not to talk nonsense. I'd pray first if you didn't break in, second thing if you didn't tell the MPs. And the third thing is that they're not told to talk nonsense, because basically, every MP has the right to his opinion, his views, not his nonsense. If we're going to talk to each other here that we're stupid, then it's really a question of how the Parliament's dignity is preserved and how Parliamentarians behave in the first place and what kind of picture they send to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54220	Thank you very much. It's not supposed to get in the word at all, but it's not called Jukic, it's called Mr. Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, they deliberately mention Yukic, but therefore, this is purely discrimination. HIV-positive children receiving antiretroviral therapy are not dangerous to others. Viraemia is 0 and how you can talk that kind of nonsense. It's child discrimination. And I have to lose control of the lies and the nonsense you're talking about. For the past year, you've been running a theater here, you can do whatever you want, and when someone tells you something, then you're making a problem. HIV positive children in kindergartens are not dangerous. Danger is children who are not vaccinations, for themselves and for others. And remember that once.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54222	The next time someone calls themselves another name than they do, for whatever reason, and for whatever reason, and for whatever reason, which we can assume, I'll give a distance warning. 'Cause I'm sorry, but we can't do that, it's a demeanor. Mr. Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When you spoke about the comparisons of certain European countries, EU member states, compared with the Republic of Croatia, you mentioned Sweden, Germany, England, and I am interested in what year the three concrete countries of Sweden, Germany, England have introduced health education in their compulsory educational programme. So we already have that health education is being conducted in these countries in so many generations that everyone has a high enough educational degree to be able to sovereignly decide on a question like vaccination. Croatia is a country that only has a health education in postpartums, only in postpartums where we have a divided society 50% is for health care, 50% is against health care. And so, when we talk about some basic postulates of printing that are the enlightenment of the people, we have a situation in Croatia that unfortunately our people are markedly, extremely low healthly enlightened. And now we have a situation here to give, in such a situation, the will of an unenlightened, ignorant people the right to decide whether or not he or she will be vaccinated. About the same as counterpart Celic mentions traffic, whether or not he will drive too fast on the highway and whether it will be arbitrary, but there is a question of the child's right to health and that is the basic question. And I find it strange to say that the Law on the Protection of the public is a negative context of coercion. I think this is salvation and that protection of the people is something that needs to be seen in a positive light, not in a negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54224	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Bunjac's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54225	Thank you, well-respected representative Varga, when you mention Great Britain, she's, say, keeping a record of the side effects and she's clearly available. Here I was able to read it, and so, she's paying off, she's got some sort of compensation fund for people who've suffered the damage due to the vaccine. As far as I could see, 7,000 people in Britain have reported side effects since 1989. Thousands have been assessed as very serious, and these thousands have in some way damaged them. So it may be one element that should also be introduced into Croatia. And as for your ideas that the Croatian people are primitive and unconscious, it is, unfortunately, simple, difficult for me to accept because I see that our workers are welcome everywhere, that they work evenly with all the other citizens of the European Union, that the more we are in some things and far ahead of them, in some abilities, in some educational elements so that I would not be underestimating. I understand that some politicians may be ashamed of their own people and portraying them as people coming down from the hills, but I think that we are part of Europe as well as ever since all the other people who live here. So I believe that in some small part of you may be right, but in general looking that Croats would know how to judge for themselves what is good for them and for their child, I believe that things would sit in place very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54226	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dr. Crescent. Varga, just a minute. I'd like to ask you the same thing, what abilities are we above others? By what abilities are we above others? You said that by some abilities we are far beyond others. By what abilities? I think we're the same as the others, me, and you have some other information. You're able to say by what we're above others, are you able to say that? First Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54227	Thank you. Here's the violation of Article 238. Rules of Procedure. Namely, a colleague of Bunjac said or repeated, or invented the de fact that I said that the Croatian people were primitive people. I said that the level of health Enlightenment in the Republic of Croatia is extremely low because health education in schools is only in preschools and all of us who deal with health care and with direct health care know that the information of the people is extremely low on health and health care. I have not mentioned in one word the primitiveism of the Croatian people, I have not spoken in a single word about general enlightenment or the achievements of detail in the country and abroad regarding scientific or other achievements. Therefore, when we talk about health enlightenment and informed consent to procedures such as vaccinations, I believe that the Croatian people are not yet at the level of Sweden, Germany and England that countries are being taken as role models in health enlightenment so that they can be taken as comparisons with the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54228	Here you go. Mine was just curiosity, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54229	Thank you very much, Vice President. You have injured Article 235. Rules of Procedure paragraph 3 which explicitly states that the representative cannot respond to the president's presentation. Therefore, you asked me to give you an answer, and I am explicitly forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. So please, next time you want to ask me a question, do it at the pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54230	I'll ask you later. I'll ask you later when we finish the session. Mr. Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bunjac, you've opened an important topic, and that's the question of individual freedom in front of the state. And you said that this is not a medical issue, but a question of individual freedom and such a debate is being held in all European countries. And you said freedom is one of the greatest values of human beings. However, I would add that my freedom must never endanger the freedom of one who lives beside me. I'm going to say one banal example. I can be free and at three o'clock a night play loud music because at that point I want to listen to music, but I don't care about the one who lives next to me. We can also compare, you have opened another very important issue, and that is freedom of religious weakness towards medical treatment. In Slovenia, there was one case that parents refused blood transfusions because they were Jehovah’s Witnesses. The child died. And what do you think your parents should have been punished for dying because they didn't allow blood transfusions because in their religious community it was forbidden. Another challenging question. I'm just asking questions whether an individual who has AIDS and who deliberately does not use protection because it requires his freedom and thus spreads AIDS because he does not protect himself in sexual relations, whether he should be punished for spreading these infectious diseases, because he is free not to use protection because freedom is above any other value. I say these are challenging questions that we must give an answer to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54232	Here you go, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54233	Thank you very much, dear representative of Sladolev. As for your question about refusing treatment at the hospital that led to the death of the child, we cannot link it to this issue at all, because all the conventions, including those I mentioned, are clearly saying that you can't refuse treatment if it's a matter of life. However, you cannot claim that the person who refused vaccination questioned anyone's life or his own because there are no relevant indicators for this. So there's a whole series of cases that people, they weren't vaccinated, so they survived normal lives. I also spoke to Agent Jovanovic. Practically all mankind has ever been in history until 1850. And when I talk about these religious issues, about the question of conscience, I believe you know more about it. Here's the case of St. Peter's. Francis. How did he react when lepers were expelled from the cities? The lepers used to drive out of the cities to live in the woods. They wouldn't let them move among people. And what did he do? He went to live with the lepers, went to live with them, which showed that the exclusion of people from the community is because they have some kind of medical defect very wrong. I'm also talking about this aspect. I'm talking about the repression against parents and children because they, I don't know, feel scared. And fear is the traits they feel and animals, it's real. And we should discuss the same if we are, therefore, turning into topics such as faith, which are also an integral part of the human rights issue and the question of individual freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54234	It says here that Mr. Sincic is doing the same thing to Mr. Bunjec. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54235	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, I will repeat what I said earlier and look back at your debate. So we have a current system, a health system that prescribes that immunization is mandatory. That's what the state says, all right. That's the current system. We all need to immunize. However, when something happens to someone, it is almost impossible to connect the side effects or some condition that arises directly or associated with immunisation, with that immunisation. It's very difficult to find a doctor who will admit it to you that's why. Why? Because this doctor also suffers from repression from other institutions, does not want to work precedents, and then it happens to us that our citizens, especially citizens with small children, are thrown away, and that they have to pay homage to legal institutions from the ministry to the ministry, that some times prove what is sometimes and obvious. Why do we have to choose between that? If we have already prescribed our obligation, then let us be so bold as to recognize responsibility, the responsibility that can happen because of such a decision to prescribe mandatory immunization. We give our citizens only a commitment, and when they seek their rights help it is impossible to achieve it. Therefore, it is one of the main problems of this system. If we give them on the other hand the freedom to decide for themselves in consultation with doctors, of course, it is their responsibility. It's a whole other relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54236	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54237	Thank you very much, Reverend Sincic. So the key point in this whole debate is that, in fact, human freedom and the right to free informed consent will certainly increase fissure. So, by adopting these laws, we will get more cleavage than we have, and this shows the comparative statistics of 14 EU Member States that have freedom of choice, i.e. a recommendation and 14 of those who have a vaccination obligation. So I would also like to point out here that 8 types of diseases that are being vaccinated in Croatia, that there is no obligation in all countries to vaccinate the same 8 diseases. There's 5 of them somewhere, there's 7, somewhere there's 10 of them. In the United States, for example, vaccination against shrimp is mandatory. Now we can ask the question ok. if it is mandatory why in Croatia it is not mandatory, and it is not. Every other child has water shrimp. So that's the question. We want to allow citizens to question each of these 8 vaccines, to ask why in the United States it is mandatory, and in the UK it is not and to get some proper information. I believe that if we met with that familiarity and not with the closed door, even less with the repression to finally tell them I got full information, I made sure that the vaccine was correct, and that's why I'm gonna take it. But this is when the information is hidden, and so it goes by force in a man, so the resistance appears. And it's always like that and it's not just a forced vaccination. That's how you feel about a bunch of other things, that coercion causes a counterproduct. At the end of the day, parents know best about their children, everything they forbid children to do on purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54238	Mrs. Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54239	Well, it's hard now after all we've heard to say something new except that as a doctor, I'm an appalled colleague of Pernar's, a colleague of Pernar's, appalled that your mother has left her office to you as a nurse. And if the competent professional services knew that, her license would be in question. So she can't leave her office to one person who's not professional. It's absurd, because you're not even competent to say wait, because you can't tell if the patient you told to wait can be threatened by not being given medical attention immediately. I'm disgusted again by the story of a hemp that doesn't heal. Do not misinformed the public, relieves the symptoms to patients and Parkinson, patients with multiple sclerosis certainly. But it doesn't cure tumors. Don't misinformed the public. Do not call for antibiotics to be prescribed. You obviously did not have bacterial bronchitis or what you said about pneumonia, otherwise you would not survive or be affected or because you may be strong about your treatment of all of your preparations that you have taken very long. Antibiotics save lives and save millions of patients' lives. And it's a terrible fact that citizens may not listen to this today, because they would see what kind of Croatia, what kind of health care, what anarchy in the health system would offer them a living wall to come to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54240	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54241	Thank you, Mrs. Strenja Linic. Well, I didn't do the doctor's job in the sense that I've been working patients now, but a man with a cold comes in and asks what to do. And simply if you see that one solution has a 100% effect and when you see other people you recommended, then your common sense requires let's say freedom to recommend another and you confirm the same thing to you. So that's one thing. As for your other observations that hemp doesn't cure. Look at Rick Simpson's getaway movie. He talks there about many people who are cured, including melanoma, meaning skin tumors. And Mrs. Linic, you are disgusted by this, but time will show that you were fighting not for science but for science and that you were actually looking at reality dogmatically, not realistically. Just like Mr Jovanovic said, for example, that the anti-vaccination movement is financing let's say a certain campaign. But that's how the vaccination movement also funds its campaign. So the situation isn't strictly black white. So maybe on one side there's, let's say gray zones, but there's gray zones on the other side. The way you show it is black white. I'm still just going to be attached to the state of America. Only in America is vaccination voluntarily, but the vaccination calendar also includes vaccination against water shrimp. But with a note that in America if a man gets sick of vaccines, sir, we told you there was a risk and you chose to be vaccinated. The risk is yours. But what happens in Croatia? In Croatia, a man says I fear the dangers and consequences of the vaccine. You tell him you need to vaccinate. A man gets sick, you tell him himself it's his fault. And it's not his fault because you forced him to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54242	Thank you, too. Now we're going back to the club debates. Mr. Mladen Karlic, HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54243	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Ministry of Health, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here's a proposal, one initiative that I am here as a doctor, I welcome. I only welcome the fact that here in this House today we can discuss a health problem or at all health care that is not often a subject in neither the Parliament, unfortunately, nor in our political campaigns, nor does it seem to be of any importance to our citizens in life. Obviously, there are a lot of bigger problems that people are struggling with, so health care isn't really the subject they should have because it's the most important thing to have their health. Because an old saying, wisdom says freedom and health are very similar. Understand their value only when you lose them and therefore do not lose your health, keep an eye on him. Freedom here may be a little conditional, because this isn't a real loss of freedom when we have a commitment to something, something that's the safest, most effective measure in preventing infectious diseases, which is vaccination, it's vaccination, it's immunisation or vaccination whatever anyone calls it. And the implementation of this immunisation is one of the greatest achievements of modern medicine and is the most significant public health programme to protect the population from infectious diseases that can be so severe, can cause so many complications, so much disability, and rarely and fatalities especially in children. And that's why it's extremely important that this is an obligation and precisely because I agree and I think as some colleagues have said that our health enlightenment is still not at that level that we can all assess, everyone is sure that this is something that contributes and certainly increases the health of our children in particular. That's why I still think this has to be a commitment that we just can't do the way it's supposed to be lifted. And therefore, of course, I cannot agree with this proposal, nor will the Croatian Democratic Community club agree with this proposal, nor will the Croatian Democratic Community Club agree to come by then, I believe, whether it will be in 10, 15, 20 years because what we must warn about is the same, because you say in Germany it is optional but 95% of people are vaccinated because they understand the importance. On the other hand, children cannot come to German kindergarten without bringing in confirmation that some diseases have been vaccinated. So it's not that much, it's conditionally optional. And I believe the same thing in other countries, because every country if it's serious, smart has to take care of its children, of its youth not to... And why is it important that as many children as possible be vaccinated? Because they protect then those few percent who have not been vaccinated for some reason by contraindications, so it is important that the more vaccinated will save those who have not been vaccinated because they will not allow the disease to spread and develop. According to World Health Organization estimates, immunization saves three million lives every year at this time. Three million people would have died if there were no vaccinations, and it wasn't vaccination in this form as it is now being carried out and in fact it's the greatest here's the reach of health in humanity at all. What is also one of the assessments that suggests that 25% of deaths reported in children under 5 years of age could be prevented by vaccination there was a vaccine, and it was available to healthcare professionals but did not receive vaccinations, would have been prevented for sure that parents were informed, had been educated and had realised the actual importance of what we are talking about today. And that's why I'm saying I'm glad that we're discussing here today, I'm sorry that this is in the afternoon of Friday, which is not the media, which is likely to be a little bit of this, or it's even a question of whether our citizens are going to come to the public, how important this issue is, or at all, this topic we're talking about today, and it's good to talk a lot about, and that actually, to those citizens who might not even be aware of it right through this debate, no matter what direction it was going to make them at least think about vaccination, about the importance and that afterwards, they're being informed about their doctors. I am convinced that this may also contribute to more attention from healthcare professionals to inform citizens, to talk to patients, or to parents, of course, to explain to them all potential contraindications to think carefully whether the child or the person to be vaccinated is or not, or to wait for him to recover. So in that sense, of course, we simply can't accept it in this form, and I think it's too soon to accept that it goes to the adoption of this law and that vaccination is optional.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54244	Thank you. We have four replicas. The first is Mr. Pernar. First Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54245	Dear colleague of the HDZ, I'll tell you just one thought. You're constantly along with the other MPs repeating the the thesis that they're... Are we going to argue with you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Are you gonna let me talk or are you gonna break up with me every time? Well, they won't come into my word anymore, man. Let me have two minutes and I'll say good-bye. Well, we're not gonna argue like little kids. Thank you. [[I'll give you seconds more.]] So, Mr. HDZ, like all the other MPs who are against our proposal, you keep saying that people in Croatia are undereducated. So why don't you spend your education campaign? What's the point of the education system? What is the role of the media that you hold in your control? Well, dear God, you have a monopoly, you're the ones who rule and the media, and the education system and you're always saying people are undereducated, people are undereducated. Then educate them. Why don't you want to do it? Either you're incompetent or you don't think the arguments are on your side. From what I'm seeing, I can see that you don't even see the problem with people being undereducated, so just for what I understand, it doesn't matter. What we stand for in the Living Wall is the more education on this subject, the free means we want the public to see, simply that these all the data you have, and in addition to the vaccination, you simply publish them on television that people are informed. Let's say Mr. Jovanovic said he cited that example of measles and shrimp. Well, that's correct. Well, I don't mind Mr. Jovanovic and you all telling it publicly on TV that the public is being educated. But we're looking for freedom of choice. What you do is you don't actually want to work on public education, and at the same time you want to force people into something and that's where we disagree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54247	Thank you. Dear Mr. Pernar, I'm not going to tell the party the Living Wall, but Mr. Pernar because you're replicating me, so I'm going to answer you. I think you missed the subject here, you didn't, you might have gone with the bill but something else, that something else would be lifted, not the vaccination. Vaccination is something that is terribly important, which is so important for Croatian citizens, for children not only here, but also in many other countries so that it cannot yet be a simple topic that we can talk about like this. As for education, it is carried out continuously through the health system, through schools, but it still takes a long time to be on that level, such as Germany, England, or perhaps some other country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54248	Thank you. Now, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54249	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Karlic talked about how much vaccination has improved the quality of life today and we have returned to it on the rights of children. So, I want to point out once again that according to the Convention on the Rights of Children, the best interest of the child is the primary criterion required by the Convention. The child’s interest must be first and no religious belief and parental interest can be above the child’s interest and his right to protect the vaccination from a fatal outcome that would potentially be exposed if it were not vaccinated. We were saying that in the world 95% is some kind of fissure, so here I am, when I saw all these initiatives, I asked the health ministry a representative question to tell me that we're standing with the fissure, so here, to hear a little bit what it looks like to us, so 2015, 2016, the data wasn't finished. Bjelovarska-Bilogorska 97.15, Koprivnica-Kryzevačka 98.83, Karlovačka 96.76, Ljičko-Senjska is one of the weaker counties of 87%, Osijek-Baranja 91%, Virovička-Podravska 97, Požeško-Slavonska 96, Brod-Posaviska 97%, Vukovar-Srijemska 96%, Istria 92%, Primorje-Gorskiska 92%, Sisak-Moslavina 98%, Zadar 93. Two of the worst counties are Split-Dalmatia 80%, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 78, Sibenik-Kninska 98%, Međimurska 94%, Varazdinska 96, Krapinsko-Zagorska 96, City of Zagreb 96, Zagreb 95 and the Republic of Croatia in globally 93%. So let's help Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva to raise the percentage above 90% I think it would be a more important task than this to prohibit mandatory vaccination.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54250	Thank you very much. Answer? No, I don't. He's Mr. Bunyan now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54251	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Karlić, so thank you for your constructive discussion. There is at least one HDZ representative who has stayed here and said that this debate is not only necessary but is also very important and that it is necessary for citizens to be informed. I'm glad you supported the idea that these discussions should take place in the early hours. We see that everything the Living Wall suggests and the Power must be placed at the last point, so you have actually acknowledged that our legal proposals have their weight, and I also thank you for agreeing with us at least in principle that the future works for us or the time works for us and that in the future, this law will surely be adopted once. You of course associate it with the degree of awareness, with the degree of education of Croatian citizens, as well as some other representatives, perhaps MP Varga etc. So in fact, you're saying between the lines that the issue of freedom is important, that the issue of human rights is also very important and that in fact a law like this should be adopted in the future or that we are on the right path. On the other hand, that would be my review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54252	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer that? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54253	Most of the time, I think what is very important to me is that a little bit more talk about health issues or health care, but I say here, when you're talking about the issue of human rights, it's a much more important issue of children's rights at the moment, because this is usually about small children and it's about those from birth to the school age for which someone else takes responsibility, and that's why it's very important that the Croatian health system here, that the state is actually taking care just to get everything they need to get so best protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54254	And in the end, Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54255	Thank you, Vice President Radin. My colleague, what I'm about to say is the sad truth, the sad state of our country. A colleague of Bunjac cited earlier that since 79, the United Kingdom has had some 7 thousand confesses, we will say so. We do not have enough statistics in Croatia. We know what the problem is to admit anything. However, immunisation is not only carried out on humans, it is also carried out on animals. So let's say we have that in Article 34. The Law on Veterinary Use, which was last amended in 2013, therefore states that for the animal that died due to the implementation of a certain measure, the owner of the animal has the right to compensation for the market price on the day of implementation of the measure. So, if we treat an animal in the law with a particular action, it is said that the owner, or owner, can receive compensation for the situation in which the animal came. But for people it is a sad fact in Croatia when something like this happens to them, and unfortunately statistically it must happen because there is no perfect cure they are, there is a door to hell, so there is no hearing, there is no help from anywhere, and that is one of the fundamental ideas of this initiative and the amendments to the law. The principle of responsibility versus the principle of freedom. You can't force someone, and then when something happens, it's not us. It's just childish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54256	Thank you, Mr. Son. Let's continue the debate. And you want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54257	This is where I would agree with you, of course, in the part where you would be sure that the result that has been created is definitely caused by vaccination. However, it is very difficult to establish and I think that this is what healthcare professionals are trying to do, and the experts are actually trying, of course, to make sure that they have such a sure and a lawsuit, that they are trying to find a connection between vaccinations and the consequences of the disability that has arisen. And of course it would make sense if that's what's causing the state to defile such a person.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54258	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernarda Topolko in front of the Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of this Croatian Parliament. Today we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, first reading, P.Z. No. 103 Proposer of the Living Wall and Power Club. We as HNS are for the right to choose, but to the right to choose the child's health. The question of child vaccination is neither a political issue nor a question of individuals. It's a matter of the medical and public health system of this country and their workers. As liberals, we believe that the child is not owned by parents, but is entitled to health regardless of the personal beliefs of parents or guardians, even the right not to suffer from easily prevented infectious diseases. In this spirit, we believe that the need for vaccination against infectious diseases should be decided by doctors and scientists. A number of controversy has been opened in public for a few years, both among parents and among experts on the harmfulness and negative effects of mandatory vaccinations for children’s health. So many parents refuse to vaccinate children because of the shared attitudes of medical writings, medical ignorance, personal and religious beliefs. Today, it was also mentioned by Mrs Strenja Linic and Mr Jovanovic that in March 2014 the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia rejected the proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases and made a decision that led to children being vaccinated for reasons that the choice is not constitutionally the right of parents, but rather the right of children to health. It is precisely the right of a child to life and health more than a parental right to choose. However, it is important to stress that this is not only about the right of a child whose parents refuse vaccination, but also about the right of other children to health and who are in a collective together with children who have not been vaccinated. Because it is always committed to protecting the rights and freedoms of others to health because parents endanger the health of their own children and other persons who have not been vaccinated for medical reasons, or persons whose vaccination has not been protected. Therefore, vaccination is subject to all children except children who are permanently contraindicated and which is determined by their doctor. The legal obligation of vaccination is to prevent infectious diseases and, in order not to re-expose the already eradicated epidemics, we ourselves have witnessed the recent spread of measles in the Split area. In the expert public, active vaccination is considered to be the most effective and secure measure in preventing infectious diseases, and complications are rare. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The health care law stipulates that every person has the right to refuse to review and treat unless it would endanger other people’s health. And what's the case here? By refusing vaccination, parents also violate Article 2. Protocols to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, since this makes it difficult to enroll children in educational institutions and kindergartens because we know that a certificate is needed when enroling. It is undeniable that the Constitution as well as the Family Law guarantee the right and freedom of parents to decide on a child on their own, but it is also prescribed by the Constitution that freedoms and rights can only be restricted by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, legal order, public morality and health, so that the legislator's power here is unequivocal to prescribe healthcare measures that are found most effective under the rules of the profession. So the Croatian People's Party Club will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54260	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54261	I'd like to say to Mrs. HNS that it's a very big problem that you keep saying that as a parent, she can't decide for a child. But do you give the child freedom of choice? I am written by students who are, say, 18 who are adult and, say, in the fourth grade of high school, do not want to be vaccinated, does he, as a adult, have the right to choose as a student? I don't think you give a lot of choice here or religion Catholicism. So in Catholicism, children are baptized as young without saying whether they believe or not. That's why we have a situation where there's a lot of believers on paper, and in practice there's little. I don't think you just believe the principle of freedom of choice, and the Living Wall is actually that liberal party. The living wall is this party that advocates freedom of people, and you here are pushing against freedom and restricting freedom, and in my view is simply your position to instead of working on education to force citizens is actually contrary to all the democratic principles and progress of civilization that goes with time to inform people, not to coerce them into giving evidence of many countries in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54262	Mrs. Topolko's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54263	Dear Mr. Pernar, I said that we are for freedom of choice, for freedom of choice for healthy children, not to spread what we have prevented years ago, not to spread the epidemics of measles and other diseases. We saw not long that measles destroyed Split County. In 2017, in the first two months 15 thousand people were suffering from mesas. I mean, how do you give a child who's just been born a chance if he'll willingly agree to the vaccination? That's why we have the law that regulates it and that we exercise its right to health.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54264	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54265	Comrade Topolko, you too have pointed out what is most important in today's debate, which is the right of a child. So the right of the child is above any other right under the Parents' Rights Convention, regardless of their religious beliefs, to their views on the vaccine. And that is why it is necessary for Croatia to remain in the obligation of immunisation at this time, because some also thought that Varga spoke of it as saying that the enlightenment of our population is not yet at that level in order to keep it above 90%, which is otherwise the goal of the World Health Organization, that after 2020 the immunisation of the cleavage will be greater than 90%. Otherwise, and all the doubts as to whether vaccination is effective here we have a simple slide here, so in 1900, the average life expectancy was 47 years. In the '60s, it's 76 today, and the goal is to get to 110 years. All three small but actually big changes have led to us living so long today. The first change you might not believe when the age of 26 came to 46 was just that people started drinking clean water. So clean water was the reason why they started living 20 years longer. After that, vaccination is followed and thanks to the vaccine, life span has extended from 46 to 66 years and then we have received new medicines, smart medicines that have allowed us to live today to 86 years. So it's scientific evidence. No evidence like Mrs. Lucija Tomljanović, who is an opponent of the vaccine, who has falsified the work and is now at her shame, and the shame of all those who support its work in Croatia, this paper was withdrawn from the magazine in which it was published, proved somewhere that she faked the data. Here are the opponents of vaccination in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54266	Mrs. Topolko's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54267	Thank you. Dear Mr. Jovanovic, here I said we're for vaccination. I agree with you in this section of yours about scientific advances. I, in my own time, also supported the Committee on Health not passing this law. I also suggested that we in Međimurje have a round table on prevention of vaccination of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54268	Thank you very much. Now we move on to individual debates. At the club still. Excuse me. SDP club On behalf of the Proposer. [[Agreement: On behalf of the Proposer.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54269	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Do I have to go down? [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder Radin: Here. As a proposer, unfortunately he must./]] I'm glad the debate has developed and we'll move on in that tone. I wanted to ask a question to the Health Department's representative. So how is it that if there is an existing system in which vaccination is mandatory you intend to stop the fissure fall? So, we already know, the waist said that the fissure of children fell below 90%. If the system remains the same, how do you intend to stop the fall of that fissure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54270	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54271	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State from the Ministry of Health, colleagues and colleagues. Here is what is said today in a relatively empty hall. I won't be much longer and repeat what's been said. But I would agree with one thing that the colleagues of the Living Wall have pointed out, in fact, that this is not about the rate of vaccination itself, but rather about the question of human rights, the right to freedom of choice, the right to informed consent and all other segments that are concerned let's say not just the question of vaccination, but the whole question of health. Here, I will mention a little introductively that as a permanent court expert in dental medicine and as an author of a chapter in a university textbook about judicial skills related to medical documentation and I wrote quite extensively about the obligation to document informed consent by patients how important this is not only for the protection of doctors from possible prosecution, but primarily as the human right of the patient himself and as proof that only informed consent of the patient and was an integral part of the treatment of that episode of patient treatment. When we talk about things when it's specifically about vaccination as a method of suppressing infectious diseases, I would still say it's not about classical tooth filling or the production of carotid dopplers by neurologists or bile stone surgery by an abdominal surgeon. These are the episodes of treatment involving the particularly individual treatment of an individual patient and a colleague in an earlier discussion and mentioned the question of how this informed consent concerns and when it comes to underage children, specifically for Jehovah’s Witnesses, in the absence of blood transfusions, filled with blood when it comes to life and the child himself, and that is the ethical and moral and legal dilemmas resulting from this. Therefore, in order to prove that vaccination is excluded from this segment for this reason in Croatia, we have a separate law on this issue. The law on the prevention of infectious diseases in the Republic of Croatia is the Law that exists for an extremely long number of years, a mandatory vaccination programme in the Republic of Croatia is one of the civilization achievements, an example of other countries, the very concept of printing and preventive medicine from where it came from, that is, Croatia is the place where it came from and has spread around the world, is something that is for our Dick and Glory. But globally, we have something called an anti-vaccination campaign, and it cannot be ignored. There's a whole series of articles on the Internet, and here I can quote four things that I found here at random on the Internet today. Vaccination is given in order to fool the people into managing them more easily. Vaccination is given to remove certain amounts of the world's population and thus redistribute the herd, thereby increasing the profits of multinational companies. Vaccination is chipped by nanotechnology and monitored through chemical traces of the aircraft, so-called. ... and finally here from the Croatian authors we have a vaccine containing GMO viruses, abortion fetuses of animals and humans, embryos of the guinea pig and various types of eggs, mice, blood and brain, blood, heart and kidneys of different species of animals, for example. Monkeys, horses, pigs, sheep, rabbits, dogs. So, in the course of the anti-vaccination campaign, I will say almost every effort of the state service, and I will mention in particular the Croatian Institute of Public Health and all the county public health institutions, regardless of their routine efforts to suppress, spread infectious diseases, unfortunately they do not contaminate adequately through public promotion of health and health care, they fail to adequately counter the spread of untruths in the matter of vaccination by anti-vaccination campaigners. The results of these campaigns are spreading around the world and globally declines the degree of population fissure. Some countries that did not have a tradition like Croatia, such as Romania with a measles epidemic, more than 5,000 of the dead, may sound, so here's the problem. However, their problem is 150km from the Croatian border. A virus of measles when spread with one unfavourable wind within an hour reaches the Croatian border, unless we have a split population at a high enough level we can expect the spread of measles in the Croatian population with severe consequences and fatal outcomes. And that's something that I can't believe when I saw on TV, specifically on RTL's show, that's a contribution to the news, about a poll they've conducted in the population, that 53% supports mandatory vaccination, and 47% doesn't support, then it's a defeating statistic where public health has actually lost, and won an anti-vacuation campaign on spreading untruths about the benefit of vaccination against possible damages. When we talk about possible damages, I will discuss in an individual debate some ideas and intensities related to damages for possible occurrences, side effects, as mentioned and we have in the UK, so I won't owe it now. But I will repeat once again that I believe that this as a human right to have informed consent must now be in one transition period as one complementary part of the mandatory vaccination where everyone, regardless of the obligation of vaccination, is required to have informed consent of patients, where each patient, or, and the patient's parent, has the right to information and must receive complete and complete information from the competent doctor. If he is not satisfied, he shall have the right to a second opinion and HZZO shall finance a second opinion officially and a second opinion may be given. If he is not satisfied with this second opinion, he has the right to receive a reference from a specialist epidemiologist at the nearby Institute of Public Health and to receive an opinion from an epidemiologist specialist. To the extent that at these three levels of information of citizens and regardless of the high level of information, the parent decides not to vaccinate his child, he has the right to bear sanctions as well as anyone in transport who does not respect traffic regulations and endangers the health and health of other people in traffic bear sanctions. The sanctions in the Republic of Croatia are fines for my notion when it is compared to that of the maximum penalty as to the possible death or long-term disability of the child, I personally believe that 2,000 kuna and too little punishment. There may be measures of social services by intervention in the family itself, and we all know that there is then a lack of kindergarten and school, and a short period of kindergarten and school for nothing is a punishment for the child, but it is a way of saving that child because an unvaccinated child is put into a potentially fatal environment, such as kindergartens and schools where all the viruses and bacteria that we are talking about today are slaughtering, thus protecting the child from any infection. When we talk about the legal issue, here I am, by the way, not a lawyer and unfortunately far from that we had this little earlier debate, we also had an expert on constitutional rights. I will mention two things that are publicly available to everyone on the Internet, you also have the opinion of the Office of the Ombudsman for Children of May 2014 where I quote, the Ombudsman for children says: "Children have the right to the highest possible level of health, and many research and data from the World Health Organization speak in favour of vaccination." The Constitutional Court said on 30 January 2014 "The right of children to health is more than the right of parents to the wrong choice. It is also believed that children's rights to health include refusing to enroll children in kindergarten and school." This is the legal segment that I have to say that I sometimes find myself on a professional dilemma in dilemmas. Here I call on the Living Wall and all other parliamentary parties to one expands the dialogue on the patient's right segment to refuse services, for example. the end of life on the right to resuscitation. It is something that is not well regulated in the Republic of Croatia, and we can debate such things very well. However, this is said of the individual rights of adults. We're talking about 99.9% of the population here, and that's something that must always be pointed out and this earlier when I was talking about this informed consent, let's say adults going to countries like Congo, Zambia, Kenya, some countries in South America are bound to be vaccinated against yellow fever. He has the right to refuse, but he also refuses to travel first. So each such decision has a certain consequence. In Croatia, however, we also have some university vaccinations in the vaccination programme. Here's an example of HPV influenza or tick bite, human papilloma virus has been shown to be a direct cause of uterine cancer or the throat of the womb, and because of this disease, it dies in the Republic of Croatia 450 women annually. If the vaccine against HPV was required, we could de facto say that we have a chance and a chance to save 450 women a year. However, facultative and fissure for HPV in Croatia is extremely, extremely low, below each level. So, we can expect that if such a legal proposal passes from the Living Wall that it will then have a problem that the college vaccine against tuberculosis, against rubella, against influenza, against, excuse me not against influenza but hemophilus, hepatitis if it passes, it's going to be about the same level as we have for HPV. Influenza is an ordinary seasonal flu that causes 300 deaths in Croatia annually according to official statistics of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. These 300 deaths are absolutely preventable because it is a vaccination for a seasonal flu that is free of charge for all risk groups, all health workers, all people exposed to a great deal of contact with other people, all older people and all those who are immunocompromised have the right to free influenza vaccination, but it is optional. And in that university free vaccination, a shamefully small number of people are vaccinated and 300 people die annually. If vaccination against influenza was mandatory 300 people in Croatia would live and survive that year. But that's not the case, though. It's similar with a tick bite where we have lainboriology and meningoencifilitis all have the possibility of being vaccinated in public health services. Unfortunately, however, a small number are being vaccinated and we have a large case of patients. Finally, when we speak about a survey where 47% does not support mandatory vaccination, when we had the 11th session of the Health Committee then a member of the Committee here, Ivan Pernar, said that vaccination as such is not interested in him excessively, but he is interested in 67,000 voters who are signatories of the petition against vaccination. So, I think it's not just about the matter of the measure of things, the fight for rights, but it's about giving up a group that unfortunately believed in the lies about the vaccinations available on the Internet. I think that all of us have to work towards enlightening the people, and I agree that it is not good enough health education in schools to be much stricter and much more active so that our people are much better enlightened and that in such a situation, we can also debate the issue of vaccination as a matter of choice and that we have 95% of parents and 100% of parents to choose, and only 5% of the population cannot be vaccinated because of their underlying illnesses and hypersensitivitys. So here, I call on everyone to reconsider, and I call on the motion that certain provisions of this law be reorganized a little bit, and may be that in some form for informed consent we can get a quality law than this one, because this law can only lead to death, therefore, I as a parliamentary representative cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54272	Thank you, too. Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54273	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Varga, for your presentation. It was impressive, especially at the last moment when you pulled "the rabbit out of the hat" and said Mr. Pernar you said you were not interested in vaccination. However, in every let's say a sentence, in every speech, it's always an important context. Here the context was then, and now it is such that you are trying to bring us into conflict between those who are for vaccination and against vaccination. And we've been explaining to you all along that we're not opposed to vaccination, that we're aware that vaccination has positive sides. Even now, I'm going to say publicly that I think that for the general population, it's more useful if they're being vaccinated than if they're not being vaccinated. But there are a lot of exceptions, you know for yourself who gets something done if the probability is 0.01% to him is 100%, and for that reason we stand for freedom of choice. So, there's no debate here, we're not here to discuss the quality of the vaccines with you, etc. It's not the subject of the current debate. We didn't come here to agitate against vaccinations and invite people not to vaccinate like they're trying to show us. We're here to say that we advocate freedom of choice and information to the public. Unfortunately, you obviously believe or have, while in power, unfortunately, been unable to educate citizens or simply feel that you will use violence and coercion, so that there is no need for education. From what I understand, you chose this second approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54274	Thank you very much. It's one of those moments where I'm very sorry there's no one who can replace me here. Here you go, Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54275	I'm thanking you. So, on 8.3.2017, I really didn't sit on my ears and I think we are all members of the Committee and the guests who were present we heard very well how you were making your statement about your intentions at the time. If you have come to enlightenment or to support vaccination today as such, I absolutely support it, and I am glad that you say it differently today and that your opinion today is different. However, this is what I asked and in an earlier debate that all those who advocate absolute freedom of choice are also those who, if they had that choice, would not be vaccinated or would not vaccinate their children. It's the same population. It's the same population. So we can expect that 43% of the population if we look at this extremely rough statistic that the population you're raising about to have a situation that 43% of the population wouldn't vaccinate themselves or their children if they got freedom of choice. This is one extremely frightening data and this speaks of one level of impeccableness or delusion, false information through the Internet that has taken up an alarming wave and I once again call on the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the Ministry of Health, all public health services in the Republic of Croatia to raise their professional voice and to work a little more on, a little bit more, a little more on health consultation that these figures unfavourable in the Republic of Croatia turn in this direction that when it comes to the moment that we all agree in this honorable home that mandatory vaccination can be removed to become optional then 100% parents decide to vaccinate their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54276	Thank you. Mr. Sincic's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54277	Article 238 is an insult to Mr Varga to the people who participated in the survey and to those who consider it necessary to amend the legislation that vaccination should be optional but recommended. Which is why Mr. Varga concluded that because someone thinks that the law needs to be changed that he also feels that he would not vaccinate himself or allow others to vaccinate? That's absolutely incorrect. That would mean that we'd probably be down 40, 50 percent. Well, I also have a cleavage here for an African state called Guinea-Bissau. You will see that there is almost no category of vaccine for 2016 which is below 80% and many are over 90%. So these are manipulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54278	No, you have no right. You have the right to only give a breach to the Rules of Procedure, but I can't see, let's move on. Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54279	Thank you very much. Comrade Varg, you have set a good example that shows how poor parenting can endanger the health and life of children. We had recent cases in Croatia when children died because parents refused to treat a severely ill child with high chances of chemotherapy, rather than resorting to alternative methods. And we had severe trauma to the entire hospital staff when the parents of Jehovah’s Witnesses did not allow the child to have a transfusion. Therefore, this is very similar to the example of vaccination and this shows the extent to which the Convention on the Rights of the Child puts children’s rights first. Therefore, Article 24(1) of Regulation (EU) No The Convention on the Rights of the Child is regulated to: ‘The States of the Parties and thus Croatia recognise the right to enjoy the highest possible level of health, which means that each child has the right to vaccination because it is unquestionably and scientifically proven that vaccination safeguards the child’s health and therefore the state must advocate for the full achievement of that right and, in particular, take all appropriate measures to combat disease and to develop preventive health care, which obliges each child to prevent diseases that can be prevented by vaccination. Therefore, in order to protect the health of the child and the child of the right to health, it is justified to deny parents the choice of non-vaccination because the right of the child to health is more than the right of parents." That's what the Convention on the Rights of Children says.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54280	Mr. Varga's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54281	I'm thanking you. I'll do it one more time, and I haven't had the opportunity to replicate on my colleague Sincic, but in the meeting part of the answer I'm going to mention to you that we don't need to look at Burke's Face or any other country. In the Republic of Croatia, vaccinations that are academic are embarrassingly low is the level of vaccination. A shamefully low level for HPV, for influenza, for tick bites an extremely small number of people are being vaccinated for preventive diseases which, I think, who has ever been vaccinated knows how painless a little procedure that is hardly even noticeable. You, as former education minister, are well aware of everything you have been through the traumas of introducing health care. So, we're saying that it takes health care to make vaccination academically, and the people are divided and this honorable home is divided whether health care is needed or not, whether it needs a college. So we here have some basic debates that we need to make, which many, many precedes before we can even come to a conversation about whether vaccination is mandatory or optional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54282	Thank you, too. Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54283	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've replicated Mr. Varga to the part where you're talking about spreading if I'm not mistaken for measles, which is certainly a disaster for the population. However, I will remind you of one of my breaks that I held here even in the spring, and I also talked about the situation in Greece after the crisis came under way, there was a huge amount of right in health insurance. I cited the terrible data, among other things, that there was a trend that people deliberately infected themselves with HIV to get some kind of state compensation, that the flower sales of any kind of product, would freak out some kind of wild unregistered site. Nor should it be said that these preparations are unverified and that it is mainly about the scientifically untested who knows what kind of preparations and because the Greek population is in such a state, the difficult economic situation where the government has cut their rights, they are actually scientific progress apart from them. And they are now in one state where they are left to themselves and where primitiveism flourishes, where conspiracy theories flourish. Therefore, we have a trend in Croatia, where our health insurance cannot be maintained either. How much do we have unpaid debt now, I think seven billion on these 24 HZOs? Therefore, because of your poor policies and your government, we have today found ourselves in a situation that a Greek scenario can happen to us in a few years. So what is the danger of such a condition that I have now described in Greece, against this danger of vaccination and the consequences that we now have?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54284	Thank you very much. Mr. Varga, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54285	In order not to spread dialogue beyond the metrics, I will only mention that the Croatian health system of compulsory health insurance exists since 14 May 1922, World War II passed, and I will mention that in the Homeland War there was de facto the highest degree of fissure that we had, and then the country was in a major crisis of over half a million Croatian residents stationed around Croatia, and then we received another one million residents from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina all neatly split and public health services were carried out through a mandatory vaccination programme. Imagine that there was a situation in this situation of the Homeland War – so who wants to go? Imagine then if we had had a situation that every refugee who came from BiH had not had to be necessarily vaccinated, if it had been at will, we would have had huge, huge public health problems with the spread of infectious diseases in the Republic of Croatia. And the Croatian health system today really has major problems with the treatment of chronic non-infectious diseases, the treatment of diabetes, high pressure, cardiovascular disease, strokes, heart attacks, an epidemic of cancer that is taking on more and more swings due to the ageing population. Let's add more infectious diseases to that. Then I really don't know where even contagious diseases would come from, treat poly, treat hepatitis, treat haemophilia, caused by haemorrhagic diseases. So wait a minute, this really, I really don't know which, neither America nor Sweden nor England could withstand such a blow to their health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54286	Thank you very much. In the end, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54287	Thank you, well-respected representative Varga, for your debate, I must admit that you are partly surprised because you are still coming from some party that is at least in principle fighting repression for individual freedom. But according to your rigidity, you outdo even HDZ. And I'm surprised to admit that I expected more tolerance, humanity and flexibility from you to say that punishments need to be increased. So your sentences are too small? If they were here, I don't know any calls for persecution, arrests, what we're going to put on people's hand a little bit more because they want to know information about vaccines, etc.? I'm sad about that, and it might actually be a good thing that at least in this debate we hear what anyone's thinking. I urge you to as one obvious representative of the minister, have very deeply rooted in the interests of corporations to listen at least a little bit to the other side and think about what they're saying. Because obviously you're very tightly buried on one side, you don't have what it's called a wish or a will to listen to what others think. We listen to you carefully, we have carefully listened to all those supporters of the vaccination obligation but you obviously lack that will, you would prefer as simply as it is called, all those people deleted, declared primitive and imprisoned in prisons, or I don't know what. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54288	You were looking for a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54289	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, it is my impression that my colleague Bunjac injured Article 238 in the section where he demeaned and insulted MPs. I don't know how yet. Mr. Bunjac, we advocate the right to health, we think it's one of the greatest human rights not only but also value. We know that proverb ourselves – better to prevent than heal! It's much simpler and cheaper for the state to invest in prevention than treat patients when they get sick. Here we are talking about children and the very fact that really in the 20th century is actually before, in the 18th century prior to vaccination, in the 20th century there were somewhere between 300 and 500 thousand people who died in some way due to the consequences of non-vaccination, which is more victims than some world wars have brought. My colleague Varg didn't insult anyone. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54290	No, I don't. No, I don't. Time's up. But calling one party is a rigid opinion, not an insult. It's not an insult. That's an opinion. Mr. Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54291	Thank you. Now we've really heard a lot, that I'm a supporter of the multinational pharmaceutical industry. Great. I didn't hear that once. However, the truth always has two sides of the medal when such things try to be placed in the media. In fact, behind the anti-vaccination campaign, when the analyses were made, where did the campaign finance come from? It comes from an alternative medicine manufacturer. It is a market in the Republic of Croatia worth about 5 billion kuna. So around 1/4 of the annual budget of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. It is estimated that by carrying out an anti-vaccination campaign with a fall of fissure that this market can double to 10 billion kuna. So if you call me corrupt with one side, then you can also go say the same about you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54292	Okay. I think the replicas are done. Now we move on to individual debates. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the Proposer, here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54293	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to one thesis spoken by Mr. Varga, but also many others who have said that those who advocate freedom of choice that they as, I have so understood, that they are all generally opponents of vaccination. Here, I'll tell you my personal experience in vaccination for hepatitis B. I told a doctor or a nurse who was already: "But you know, there's a live one in that vaccine." That's what I told her. And she said to me, "Yes," she says, "But there's more in the tuna." Then I stopped eating tuna. I don't eat fish anymore, but I was vaccinated. So it doesn't mean if I want to know that I'm necessarily against it. So I'm simply assessing at that point that it's better to vaccinate than not to vaccinate. But also to vaccinate children with 5 vaccines at once, can actually, and children actually, be careful, and especially the vaccination of only children born can simply be an attack on their own or attack on their immune system. And here, in fact, it's not even May's intention to discuss or discuss the calendar of vaccination or what vaccines should be or should not be. But I'm just saying that the situation isn't black and white, that accepting the vaccine isn't all pink, and refusing the vaccine isn't all black or there's arguments for and against, but we're the only party or representatives in this House who advocate an objective approach that analyses the arguments both for and against, and advocates that the individual decides for himself is us. He's here, you also said I said we'd go get the votes. And yes, let's get the votes, Mr. Varga. We go to the voices of all people who think against totalitarianism, against coercion, who advocate freedom of choice. This is purely a political struggle, and if this law does not pass it not because the arguments are not made, not because there is not something that should be known, etc., but because there is no political will, and the political will from your views we see will not be until HDZ, Most, SDP, HNS are given elections or form power. And on this occasion, I particularly want to address all citizens who want freedom of choice in the matter of vaccines and all those who have survived because of the forced vaccination of the problem that the Living Wall is the only party that represents them and no other party will represent them because there are party disciplines. And even if someone may think differently, he will not express his opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54294	Mr. Varga was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54295	Given the vice president's mime, I'll be extremely brief. In fact, it is my opinion that and I agree with you that this subject should be discussed and should be discussed, in a broader context, I believe that such a proposal for this law has been premature for 30 years. Here we can give you a confession that you really are a party ahead of your time. But it is that at this given moment there is room for improvement in the method of mandatory vaccination in Croatia. There's plenty of room to improve the enlightenment of the people by the Institute of Public Health. There is a lot of space in regulation of the mechanism that doctors give informed consent and whether this informed consent is sufficient to sign the patient himself, or parents for his child. I agree that there is a lot of space here and we will propose certain amendments before reading this law and see if we can come to an agreement on a single position, so it may be that we have a joint bill after the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54296	Replication response, please. The dialogue's started.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54297	You said there was a responsibility. However, there is no responsibility if, for example, you are forced to vaccinate yourself or your child and develop after a terrible complication. You had a situation state has vaccinated people with swine flu although, of course, that vaccine is not mandatory. People remained paralyzed. But there were other vaccines that could be complications, so let's say even diabetes can occur. The state doesn't give any compensation. If the state is willing to take away people's right of choice and force them to do something, then I call on the state to start paying and paying people back. And for that very reason, in America, vaccination is voluntary. Because the U.S. government knows that if you force someone to do something, you're responsible. And then they say, "Look, there's a risk, if you're vaccinated and you don't vaccinate, it's up to you, and it's up to you. But in Croatia, responsibility is never on the one who gives the vaccine, and thanks to the destruction of the Immunological Institute, we don't even know exactly what these vaccines are and we don't have control over the production of our own vaccines and I say all the risk is actually on the patient, and zero on the legislator who forced him to do something and prescribed something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54298	Thank you very much. And now, if I'm all right, they're done replicas. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54299	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of Bunjac, Pernar, Sincic, the fact that we're colleagues of Varga, the Voice and I here on Friday afternoon, shows that we appreciate your efforts. But at the same time, we express our disagreement with the concept that you intend to increase the percentage of fissure in the Republic of Croatia. But we appreciate your efforts, I even think you're doing it for the best. However, exactly what counterpart Varga said, the level of awareness of this problem in Croatia is not yet at that level that this could be voluntary. One of the great stories was published in Globus, meaning Igor Rudan a regular professor at the University of Edinburgh and the first Croatian elected as a regular member of the Royal Society after Ruđer Boskovic, says thanks to vaccination the life span was doubled from less than 50 to more than 80 years. It is a top expert whose competences I hope no one suspects, who is actually speaking very positively even about opponents of vaccination in a way that should be respected. That's why I'm going to quote it. He says at the start of this project he made a great film, and it would have been better if we had watched this movie today maybe here instead of these discussions, because I believe that the viewers of this program would have enjoyed this movie more than our discussions. Most of the time, he says that he was triggered by a negative phenomenon of the 21st century. There are major problems on the Internet because many seductive misinformation is offered to people who quickly collect gifts. Each verified based scientific confirmed information will be obtained very quickly on the Internet by its disinformation. He thinks it's important that opposers of vaccination, and you're not really opponents of vaccination as far as I understand it, in no way condemns them, not to be called fools or to be declared uneducated. Because these people don't have to be like that at all. At the same time, calling on them to let everyone die in their ignorance and stupidity when they do not want to be vaccinated is also not a solution, nor is it moral and will not help. Why? The more unvaccinated, the more the effect of tv disappears. collective immunity, which is crucial in preventing the epidemic from spreading, so if these people and their children don't vaccinate and the rest of us are gonna get hurt. Therefore, he believes that Rudan, which is what we are doing here today from the SDP, believes that it is worth the effort to explain how dangerous their attitude is for all people who are confused and seduced by misinformation about vaccination. We can try to fix the situation that way, or we can simply raise our hands and let everything go along and wait for several hundred million people in the world to die again, and then again, for over 50 years, it doesn't occur to anyone to say anything against the vaccines. The success of vaccination is probably the most deserved thing that the expected human age during the 20th century in developed countries has doubled. Thus, these thoughts of Mr. Rudan actually speak of the extent to which it is good that we have this debate today. Unfortunately, as well as our laws colleague Sincic, a colleague of Bunjac, all these laws come at the end of the agenda, Thursday at midnight or Friday afternoon when the public is less interested and does not follow what we do. Not to be too long, since more or less everything is said at the end of the day, since I believe that the attitude of the profession is most important, I will quote several opinions of the distinguished professional societies of Croatia, and I hope that the citizens are watching and will hear it. Therefore, the Croatian epidemiological society, which is crucial for solving epidemic situations in society, says there is no scientific doubt that the benefit from vaccination significantly outweighs the potential damage caused by any side effects. Mass vaccination is a unique medical intervention that protects both non-vaccinated and whole population. If... vaccination in Croatia is reduced we can expect a return of diseases that have long been reduced or eliminated from our country. Those responsible for the security of the country must be aware of the consequences of the country's safety as long as changes in the mass vaccination programme are introduced, which could result in a reduced range of vaccinations. Therefore, colleagues from the Living Wall, therefore, I cannot support your proposal, but I can appreciate some of the opinions that have been expressed here today and make sure that together we all influence that in our society, in the medical offices we are talking more to patients, that parents can clearly explain to them everything they receive from vaccination, of course, and what risks they are, because in this way the percentage of those who vaccinate their children will certainly be greater than they are today. Because there is really no dilemma that vaccination is something that brings far greater benefits than certain problems that must occur in every medical procedure. But I also agree with you that in case any side effects occur to this child, this person must ensure that the damage that has happened to him is compensated and that he lives as high as possible in relation to the problems that have happened to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54300	You have two replicas. The first is Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54301	Thank you, Vice President Radin. My colleague Jovanovic, I'm at the beginning of statistics here. I have here statistics from the World Health Organization. There's a whole spectrum of independence to date by various vaccines. These are data signs for the entire population. Also about a month ago, the waist presented data that in children, so that's one subset of this group whose statistics I have here, the fission dropped below 90%. You know very well what an age-old pyramid is, you know they're at the bottom of a younger person, they're at the top of an elderly person, they're in the middle of a middle of a middle-aged person. If this trend continues, and I estimate that there will be a continuation of fissure precisely because of the repression, instead of informing and education towards the citizens, it is going by incarceration and fear. You have to be vaccinated, you have to receive treatment, or we'll charge you a fine. So, more will fall that fissure. And as time goes by, so from the bottom of the pyramid to the top, this younger population will move towards the older and the overall fissure will also fall significantly and I would say even progressively. So that's one particular problem I see in the future. We've presented our solution here today when it comes to information here people report they have a dog, they have children, they say in a vaccine book for my dog there's more information about the manufacturer's composition than in a bookbook for my children. So why is that? Why don't they give us more information? There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54302	Thank you. Answer to the replica Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54303	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Sincic, just before, about an hour ago, quoted our data where it is seen that the average cleavage is 93% and that it is generally high above 90% except for the 3 counties of Ličko-Senjska where 87, Split-Dalmatia is where 80 and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 78 are located. Here, that would be interesting, there is the secretary of state, along with the Croatian Institute to see why in these three counties is such a small percentage of the cleavage. Otherwise, you know well that I have made a huge effort to introduce into all schools a health education that has four modules – a module that lives healthy, responsible sexual behavior, prevention of addiction and prevention of violence. Therefore, this is exactly the way to make sure through the medical enlightenment that will be before us that everyone has the right information and that they have all the necessary information to make decisions that are of quality for their health, and of course, I welcome your proposal that every parent needs to provide the maximum possible information that exists for all those medicines, vaccines that they and their children receive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54304	Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54305	I'd like to say that when you say that those who are against vaccination are spreading, let's say unverified information. However, those who are in favour of vaccination sometimes spread unverified information. Here's an example of quite a banana, for example, I've read now, in the European Union in type 15 countries, there have been a total of measles of a thousand 400 people, or children. So we can now calculate the total number of inhabitants in these countries, how many children there are, how unvaccinated and whether the expression epidemic corresponds to the numbers of a thousand 400 people. Like in Split, I don't know, eight children are sick of measles, you now call it the measles epidemic in the media. So, as sometimes those who are against vaccination exaggerate, let's say the contaminant component, so are the proponents of vaccines by dissipating fear, stories of some kind of epidemics, etc. They're scaring people. And look at how many people in Croatia have died of flu, how many measles in the last 5 or 10 years. Compare these two figures and you will see in fact that the flu to which vaccination is not necessarily represents simply statisticalally killing many more people, getting sick many more people etc. I remind myself, it's been said that bird flu is a very great danger, and look at the number of deaths and those suffering from common flu and bird flu, and you'll actually see that it's all for the purpose of spreading fear or selling in this case bird flu vaccine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54306	Thank you. Answer to the replica Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54307	Comrade Pernar, you yourself have said health care worker, your mother is a health care worker. So in medicine there are no guesses of numbers, but there is medicine based on facts on evidence. So there's no small epidemic, or no epidemic. The numbers are clear and indicate whether it's an epidemic, a pandemic or not. Therefore, if we talk about false data I told you today in the debate that one of our Croatian colleagues wanted to fake the data and that it was exposed and thus proved that the opponents of vaccination actually behave in a way that is completely inappropriate. Now that you mention the flu, we can't forget that in certain periods, the flu has carried away hundreds of thousands, but 18 million people know the Spanish flu. And that's why there must always be caution. Here's a good thing that you reminded me, given that according to all the knowledge last year the flu strain was changed, and this year we can expect a dangerous epidemic, surely an epidemic, so I'm not making it up. Did our Croatian Institute provide a sufficient amount of vaccine specifically for vulnerable groups? I'd like the secretary of state to answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54308	Thank you very much. Mr. Sinisha Varga's individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54309	Thank you. Here, in an individual debate, I'm going to touch on a few issues related to the adoption of this bill, regarding the compensation of the patients themselves. There is an important institution that is respected in the Western European countries, I think there is even in North America, which is called in English... i.e., a fund of money from which the compensation to patients who have suffered certain side effects in medicines, which in medical procedures, in order to avoid the long-term after sometimes and failed judicial multi-annual agonys, will then, in agreement between the damaged patient and the health establishment, make a certain settlement that is agreed in advance on heights and works under certain rules and the SDP Club will in the next few weeks, give one proposal for a law that will be applicable in the Republic of Croatia. Here I call on all parliamentary parties present and absent to take part in the debate so that this legislative proposal is as good as possible. Regarding some other things you've all discussed I can say some of my personal experiences, here we can go back to 2002 when I was assistant minister of health. I had two cases back then that marked me a lot, one of which was megamin. I don't know if you remember it, but it was one drug that maltene as if from "Alan Ford's Kitchen" came out, which heals absolutely all the diseases known to humanity and was extremely dilated in the Croatian people, it was both pills and capsules and potions, even I think that at one point were also done by megamin socks. And in fact, it was a grindstone. So it was selling ground stones under the drug, in million amounts, I think they reached and sold in billions on an annual basis. So there's the sale of "breed balls" by let's say quasi-science cultures, one extended, expanded practice I mentioned now in 2002, so something that happened 15 years ago. The second question was two girls who were infected with HIV AIDS during childbirth, and it was just when I was a ministerial assistant, and the two girls were supposed to be enrolled in primary school. And which, here I had right then was my pledge that those two girls managed to get into school with huge opposition not only to parents, but also to schools and teachers, and everyone. And that was supposed to, my personal commitment to enlighten all these people to accept those two girls in their midst. Fortunately, a long time has passed and Croatia has matured and Croatian society has matured today and if we have such children and in today's population such questions are no longer being asked today. But it takes 15 years to reach that level. We can also talk about the vaccination programme whether it is compulsory or optional, I personally think that the process of health education and health education in schools should be brought up by complete generations before we can make the vaccination program mandatory. For this reason, I agree with the Living Wall that I absolutely advocate the right to choose, the right to freedom, the right to human rights but not to harm the child, not to the harm of those, those populations that cannot be vaccinated because of their underlying diseases, because of their personal health conditions. And this means that the people must be medically enlightened to this level that with informed consent they agree to treat and accept all of those possible side effects that are true they are spontaneously here and there for hundreds of thousands of children who are being vaccinated to appear. Urticaria also occurs, a local island appears, sometimes inexplicable states, inconsolable crying, convulsive conditions. But it's so rare, so slow, then much sooner should we ban traffic at all, because traffic loss is a lot more fatalities and a lot more permanent disability cases, we have a lot more cases and in general medicine than the general medicines that we use to cause side effects. And for this reason, I personally believe that both the health establishment and the health ministry and the medical and all other chambers have to find this solution together how to make them compensate, and we will give that proposal over the next few weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54310	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54311	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Varga, here's how this debate wanes, it seems that we're slowly agreeing to opinions, though very hard, but we're a little closer than at the very beginning. You say you'll support it, as much as you'll even write your own proposal for a damage fund bill, and that's very good. Let's say that's a good starting point for some further discussion and for one broad cooperation. However, I would like to look again at some of your previous presentations. You said that the Living Wall was enlightened after it took part in the debate on the Health Committee. Here, I'd like you to also perhaps enlighten yourself during this debate because I really don't believe that increasing the penalty for people who don't want to vaccinate their children is a good way. I really want to believe that SDP agents don't think, and you were talking on behalf of the club, they don't think that's a good way to go. As far as I'm aware, deny me, it seems to me that you have personally served the conditions of vaccination and now additionally, so I don't know, give a fine of 50,000 kuna to people. Do you really think that this will increase the cleavage? So, we think that in fact, we are quite repressive of what MP Jovanovic said, which is that in certain counties we have here below 80% of the cleavage. And I'm surprised that with such a low cleavage, for example in Dubrovnik, not all these diseases that are said to be protected by only a cleavage greater than 90% appear again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54312	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54313	Thank you. Here, therefore, is the question of the repressive part of the law or criminal provisions. In our calculations here is how I was director of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, during the project when we were doing emergency medical and helicopter services then when we were doing a cost-efficient analysis of the service itself, we did an analysis of the impact of treatment in the golden hour compared to long-term disability. Like what? The patient who has had a stroke and has been treated within the golden hour and all haemolytic services have done their part to perform the intervention, remove the clot in the brain and the patient goes home within a very short period of time without any lasting consequences. Conversely, a patient who is not treated in the Golden Hour, who is late recognized with late symptoms, remains a permanent disabled person and, at 50 years of age, costs the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, the Peace Fund, the social service costs about a million kuna. A child who suffers from polio during childhood to the end of his life is about that because he will experience a distant age because the health care system will take care of it and cost about 2 million kunas. 2 million kunas for the freedom to choose non-vaccination against the fine of 2 thousand kunas is totally disproportionate. And that's why I think it should be proportionately harmful. It's a common-known notion of the right to match the scale of damage. 2 thousand kunas are particularly symbolic as far as I know the violations of the courts in the Republic of Croatia are generally not even so prescribing, but it is much smaller amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54314	Thank you very much. An individual debate, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54315	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have come here to speak not only on my own behalf, I have come here to speak for all those parents who are dragging themselves through the lawless courts on the one hand because of the non-vaccination and on the other hand because of all those criminals who have been released by the Croatian judiciary. So, on the one hand, all those who have destroyed our people who lead them into the disappearance and the detachment of them are freed from justice, and the people who do not incur their children are persecuted. And when a man sees the efficiency of the judiciary, he might think for a moment that, for the survival of our people and the state, there is a bigger problem for those parents who have not vaccinated their children than the politicians who have led our country for the past 27 years. I came here to speak on behalf of parents who can't enroll their healthy children in kindergarten. I stress, healthy children. So I can understand if a child is sick from an infectious disease, so he can't go to kindergarten that's normal and uncontestable to me. But banning healthy children from going to kindergarten is crazy for me. The current law has turned its back on parents and children. Parents of healthy and not vaccinated children in a way that punishes them both with money and ban enrolment in kindergarten, and those parents, or those people and those children who get sick and get no compensation for it from vaccines they have not taken with their choice, are also punished by this system. I came here and to say that it's a first-class political issue, a political issue that there is no consensus, about which there are actually two conflicting attitudes. One view that advocates greater fissure through increased information or what the HDZ president calls pedagogue, although he probably meant education on the one hand and on the other, which he believes the problem can be solved or must be solved only by coercion and non-freedom. This conflict between two concepts of free choice and coercion is the central conflict between our time and our society. Here although it appears to be discussing or discussing the vaccine, we could have started any other topic such as this. education at home outside state institutions. Currently, in almost the whole world, all Western countries including even the followers of the former Soviet Union mean complete Europe except Germany and Croatia actually allow education at home. So home education in almost all the world is allowed means from the United States to Australia, the whole of Europe except Germany and Croatia. You're probably wondering why, for example, education is forbidden at home in Germany? So I'll tell you, at a time when Hitler came to power, then schools became polygons for indoctrination and then certain parents to save children's minds and hearts from Nazi propaganda, to pull their children out of school and educate them at home. And that's when Germany ordered that you have to go to school, so you can't be educated at home. And this law, introduced by Adolf Hitler, is in force today in Germany, and unfortunately in Croatia. What I'm saying is that it means freedom on the one hand and freedom on the other hand. Our society, being in colonial status, or the status of limited sovereignty, and in many elements, every sovereignty has been devoid of freedom in every matter. In terms of economic policy, it means monetary policies, foreign policy, the issue of education at home, the issue of freedom of vaccination, the issue of the use of hemp, i.e. marijuana, etc. So we simply took wherever we could take away freedom from people, we took away that freedom from people. And so on the one hand there is such a policy, a policy of not being free, on the other hand there is a living wall and a policy of freedom. Our society will continue to develop in the direction that voters will want. It is our duty to warn them that by supporting the policy they have seen so far, and which they have seen in recent decades, the trend will be negative in which our society continues. So there will be a situation of freedom, debauchery, crazy restrictions, etc. As a politician, I fight not only for the freedom of the state and other people but also for my own. Why? Because I think every single person should be free and have the right to choose. And my political struggle for the freedom of others began when I realized that I was not free. However, when I began to fight for my freedom against the system that restricts us and keeps us in a state of mental slavery, I began to fight for both freedom and rights and other people. These rights and those freedoms that the Living Wall stands for, no other party in the Parliament stands for. I must also point out that there have been other proposals from the Living Wall here in Parliament, and there will be more. Here was the proposal that the number of signatures required to call the referendum be dropped to 2.5% from 10% of the total number of voters. That was my colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic's proposal while he was still alone in the Parliament. As was his proposal while he was alone to protect one property from the occasion. Yesterday, he was from counterpart Alexic to propose that overpaid interest by force of the law be paid back to debtors, not that debtors individually must enter disputes with banks. Today, the issue of vaccination is on the agenda, and next week is likely to be a tax on banks we want to introduce, or on the bank's activity, and then a proposal on the legalisation of hemp will come. What we're trying to say is that the Living Wall is not a party that blindly criticises throws floscules or whatever. No, ladies and gentlemen, the Living Wall is a party that has concrete legal proposals, which it gives in the parliamentary procedure, which other MPs and the general public can and should be analysed. However, as you yourself know, despite your campaign to our own, despite the maximum we give ourselves, the media continues to portray us as people who offer no solutions, no legal proposals, who only object, etc. etc. However, the matter is actually quite simple. We want freedom of the isolate, you are against freedom of choice, and this is all about any debate whether it's a topic of legalization of hemp, whether it's about allowing education at home, whether it's a free choice of vaccinations or something fourth, because you have a policy of continuity, and in a state of colonial where our country is and in mental slavery where there is actually most of the society we actually have other choice than fighting against freedom we don't have. This legal proposal is an act of resistance to this totalitarian system, this totalitarian social arrangement, and I dare say this to a dogmatic system that eliminates any debate that prevents any free will and punishes any indiscipline. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we of the Living Wall have done everything, we have made a legal proposal to protect parents and children, namely the rights of those parents and children who want a free choice. However, all other parties in the Assembly that were present here, so HDZ, SDP, Most and HNS, refused or rejected our proposal. For this reason, I can tell our citizens that violence against them by the state will likely continue to be carried out that crime will continue to be released as it has so far been released and that they will actually be the victims of this judicial and legislative violence. I say judicial and legislative, why? And because Ivo Sanader didn't do it, and you did it, that's why. You didn't want to vaccinate your child. This is a message sent by the Constitutional Court, which would be sent to them by the Supreme Court and by each other, by another court authority under the control of your parties. And for this reason, I call on all the citizens who advocate free choice in the matter of vaccination to go to the polls and support the Living Wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54316	Thank you very much. I guess there won't be any more elections, I hope. We have three replicas. First Sinisha Varga. Mr. Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54317	Thank you. Here I am going to address this beginning and end your presentation of colleague Pernar. Namely, primarily healthy unvaccinated children at school, the law says that these children, they can be deprived of going to school and kindergarten not to protect other children from them, but to protect them from those other children. Every vaccinated child and every unvaccinated child is a potential callosopher. Therefore, an unvaccinated child who comes in miles 15, 20 other children who are all callinators of the child's health has been compromised and is therefore remote from the sanitary inspector either by the school's administration or in cooperation with the Public Health Office of that child is deprived of the possibility of attending schools and kindergartens to protect the child's health. In this segment of commenting on other parties, here I come from the Social Democratic Party, on the democratic side I expect the state to serve me and that is my democratic right to serve me. On the social side, I ask that these vaccination services be as accessible as possible and as free as possible. And in the end, you've been arguing with a colleague from the HNS, saying that you're actually liberals. However, with the arrangements to move any responsibilities or sanctions from the liberal system is actually then anarchism. So here you can automatically change your party's logo into a letter and with a circle around it because any freedom without any responsibility is actually an anarchy society, and that's the first tribal society I don't want to participate in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54318	Mr. Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54319	Well, Mr. Varga, you've dared to say one oxymoron during your replica. You said you were for democracy, but you're on the other side against freedom of choice. This paradox has been watching our country's citizens for decades. So as the Democratic People's Republic of Laos or Korea used to be, you're still claiming on behalf of the SDP that you're a democratic party, and you're showing by your behavior that you're not actually letting people think for themselves, you're not giving them the choice to make conclusions based on your own judgment, but you're actually suggesting to them in the manner of a big brother, and you're saying this is absolutely true, that's science, you have to obey it. Once your science was that of your party Marxism, Leninism, was once your God, once your role models were Marx, Lenin, Engels, etc., and today you have replaced those role models with those who advocate the introduction or scientists who were actually pedophiles and their work in the education system, etc. So, as time goes by, that's how you change. But what remains is totalitarianism, which is that you do not accept a different opinion and the right of people to express it or to live in harmony with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54320	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54321	A colleague of Varg's already answered a part in his replica. So we are members of the Social Democratic Party, which is based on the freedom of man and the fundamental postulates are our freedom, justice, equality and responsibility. And with you fellow Pernar there is no responsibility, and in this there is a difference between the Living Wall and the SDP which all their proposals have always been held responsible. Freedom, yes. Freedom is the foundation of everything, but freedom has a limit. The individual's freedom reaches the point until he starts threatening the next individual, and that's where freedom stops. So let's say that we abolish the obligation of immunization and that it is free to decide, but in that case the unvaccinated child will not be able to go to kindergarten where the children are vaccinated. That'll be a condition for sure. So you need to be a little more constructive and responsible in everything you're talking about, and about pseudo-scientists, paedophiles who have entered our health care education, that's a shameful statement that just shows what kind of politician you are, a populist who only beats and beats.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54322	Mr. Sincic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54323	Thank you, Vice President Radin. Article 238 of the so-called insult has been injured. We've brought this story down to ideology. I was just talking about responsibility and right and freedom. Maybe it's misunderstood. However, we are not an anarchist party. I personally do not advocate absolute freedom. If you have all freedom, you have anarchy without responsibility. The other side is, therefore, all obligations, and no freedom is a dictatorship and there is some democracy between them. I've always looked at things like that. So let us not call ourselves that way. Ours, so each of us can have one of our own maybe a little different opinion, but we're not for mess. We are for dialogue and for order, for justice and for order, and we haven't seen it from you who tend to be such names, and in practice there is little.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54324	Like when Mrs Sabina Vosovac earlier told Mr. Bunjec that he insulted the SDPs because he said it was a rigid party, I said it was an opinion. Now that Mr. Jovanovic says the Live Wall is a populist party and an irresponsible party, I also say it is an opinion and attitude. That's not the injured Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bunjac. ... Who? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Pernar, the same violation of the Rules of Procedure? ... And the answer? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54325	I'd like to thank my colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. I believe he has the right to his own opinion, and I personally consider that he has not violated the Rules of Procedure. He may consider us anarchists, but he can also say that the rest of the world lives in anarchy. And it's clear from the plane that Western countries, Western European countries, are more orderly than our own. In other words, I don't know, somewhere in Switzerland, let's say every person can own 4, 5 hemp plants, marijuana, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic will call it anarchy, and the Swiss legislators will say, so we're not one liberal country, we're one country that respects individual's freedom to consume hemp and we want to regulate that question. So what the Living Wall is looking for isn't anarchy. So the Living Wall wants to liberalize laws, soften laws, means to end penalties for parents who don't vaccinate children, allow healthy unvaccinated children to enroll in kindergartens, etc. So this is about a truly liberal democratic one-free, I would dare say, worldview. But all that goes away from totalitarianism for Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic is anarchy. So there's coercion in his head, there's education in our heads, and there's awareness of individual and collective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54326	Okay, anarchy is not an insult either, it's an idea with a great tradition. Finally, Mr. Bunjac. ... The replica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] For what? No, there was no replica. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You see it's too late, give Mr... Who had the replica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54327	I'm sorry, my colleague Pernar had an individual discussion. I replicated to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54328	Okay, if it is, it can.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54329	Thank you, Vice President. You were talking about colonial status, all politics, so, fellow Pernar, you were talking about the colonial status of our homeland, just one trend in achieving this colonial status go to the Immunological Institute. I will mention one case from 2010 when Optipharma from Malaysia came from Malaysia with a great offer, so it was a proposal.... A joint venture to be made in cooperation with the Immunological Institute for the Production of Vaccines, therefore, is a substance on one biological basis for the market in Muslim countries, therefore, with a halal certificate. Because the Muslim population, as a rule, if something isn't halaal, they don't want to consume it. There were huge markets in Indonesia, India, Pakistan, not to list further, but there was no political will to go into such a business, then even no one received that delegation and unfortunately the whole business failed. It's one of those things that contributed to the disappearance of the Immunological Institute. I also wanted to say that Edward Geners was celebrated as the father of some immunology, but Ferdinand Hadvig was still immunizing in 1791 in the area of Croatia. So here I was going to say, that our sovereignty and struggle for national interests and see in the disappearance of this immune institution of ours, that is, has been brought into the state it is instead of being one of the foundations of our sovereignty, and health is one of the cornerstones of security.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54330	Thank you. Mr. Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54331	Dear Sincic, how much of those who advocate forced vaccination care about the welfare of those who are being vaccinated most say that they have allowed the collapse of the Immunological Institute, which allowed the state to lose one company of strategic importance, a company that has competed with world firms, and all for the personal interests of a few. What happened to the Immunological Institute is actually a copy of our entire state. Systemically everything was being destroyed, everything was being systematically destroyed and society and family as a fundamental unit of society were eventually destroyed. Everything tries to relativize today and eventually those who have brought the country to ruin are portrayed as good and positive personalities, and those who want it to be a free country in which people freely express their opinions, attitudes and beliefs of such people are shown as anarchists, extremists and whatever they are not. But Mr. Sincic, keep in mind as long as they use our labels against us means they admit actually defeat, because if they had arguments, the labels wouldn't be necessary. What I can say after, at the end of this current debate is that Live Wall is the only party in Croatia that advocates real and true democracy or freedom of choice of its citizens. This freedom, unfortunately, will be denied them until the Living Wall comes to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54332	Here you go, Mr. Bunjac, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54333	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A lot has been said today, and I'm afraid it wouldn't take me a few more hours to look back at everything we've heard during today's morning. Here's just one detail of what we've heard, for example. The treatment of polyemelitis costs 2 million kuna. And Mr. Varga, there has been no case of polyemelitis in Croatia since 1979, this disease has practically been eradicated around the world, and it is only waiting for the moment when it will be officially declared to have been eradicated as typhoids, plagues, goddesses that are therefore no longer being vaccinated, because simply these diseases do not exist. But I don't want to do any more of these details, but what he means now is, what's the summary of all this. And that is, first and foremost, that this topic was and will be and therefore it is very important that we also talked about it today in the Parliament. I believe this is just the beginning. I am convinced, given the SDP's position that this law will ultimately be rejected. But I think this law or at least its parts will return to Parliament. And as you said yourself, the living wall is actually kind of ahead of its time. Similarly, the HDZ colleagues said, which means that you at least formally admitted to us that this law has its weight. The most important thing we want to say in the end is that the Living Wall did not submit this bill because we are against vaccination. But here, a lot of people were going out with anti-vaccination arguments, and I don't know, conspiracy theory. We are in favour of greater fissure, following the most positive examples of highly developed countries in the world. We actually want legislation like Germany, Great Britain, Switzerland, Austria, the United States, and not the law of the jungle, as some here want to impute that we want to return as MP Varga said in the Stone Age. That's not true. We can't say that we're jeopardizing someone here, I don't know, now I haven't been vaccinated, so I'm jeopardizing or my child's safety, then we come to Austria and it's big, so whoever told you or came to Germany, so it's normal for you to enroll children, no one asks you anything, etc. So, just 100 kilometers away, the situation is completely different. There is no consensus on this matter. No consensus. And that's why it's very important that we don't actually do some extra polarization, but rather have a dialogue, that we discuss that I listen to you and you listen to me and try to find some best optimal solution. I really did meet people who got over polymyelitis, here while I was working at school before I came to Parliament there was a gentleman who always hitched me when I went to work he got over polymyelitis and I could see the consequences of this disease and I often wondered God why there was no vaccine in his time because in Croatia he started to be vaccinated from this disease in 1961. He didn't have time to vaccinate. But on the other hand, I've seen people who have suffered the very terrible consequences of the side effects of vaccination. I talked to them, and I walked on the stands, the workshops, and I listened to the advocates on both sides. And I think we should all do that. We should actually listen to each other, compare these legislations, educate ourselves as you say, and the shame is that only one single medium as far as I understand this today conveys that this is such a small number. There's talk of an education, a need to understand, and when that moment comes, we all run away. What are we running from? From dealing with what? I think that this debate should be concluded in this sense, and I call on all my fellow MPs, regardless of who they are, and the public as a whole, to inform ourselves about this subject and to try to respect each other more, to show more respect for each other to achieve both greater fissure and greater health of the population, but also greater respect for human rights, education and everything else that should actually put us at the very top of the world's development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54334	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Mr. Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54335	... So today we have identified one problem in which Croatia is located, which is therefore for children, a fall in the fissure. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] The main thesis that has been placed by opponents of this proposal is that the Croatian people are medically ignorant, not sufficiently enlightened and educated, so that if they let the citizens decide on their own to consult with metricians, they are primarily pediatricians for children, or we can talk about immunologists in general so that they make the wrong decision. Mr. Varga has even gone so far radically that all those who claim that it is not mandatory but that it is recommended that all these opponents of vaccination are not to vaccinate themselves and their children and that others who I think have really gone too far to react to. However, we still don't know how the current ministry will react to this matter. I don't know if you've spoken to your patients, with people who insist on keeping the law as it is. Our experience is that a fall in the fissure occurs not because of conspiracy theories because of these as you say what alternative companies finance these movements, but precisely because of the repression. That's the response to repression, that's the answer to lack of information, that's the answer to fear. So, the state system is instantaneous to fear making people immunize. Well, if we invested all that energy that we've invested so long-stricken people in education, we'd certainly have better results. I personally disagree with you and you managed to prove to me today that the Croatian people are so ignorant. It is our opinion that if we were to implement this law in order to just have a counterproduct, there would be no ban and that there would be at least a remnant of immunisation at this level if not an increase. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54336	Thank you. Here's a reply to the replica, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54337	Thank you very much. Only for a very short time would I be referring to Agent Sincic's comment. In fact, it's two concepts I'd dare say philosophical concepts, human concepts. And one of them says that people were born bad,...malten evil, irresponsible, and that they should be forced to be good during life. There's another concept that says that people were actually born good, and that society and coercion make them bad. Of course, here we represent the intensities that people are essentially good in their nature and that if they were given personal freedom, if they really had the confidence that society would ultimately function better, we do not feel that there is a need for coercion, we do not feel that there are too many restrictions on freedom and we believe that on this trail one day this law will still be passed in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54338	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. One piece of information for you before we part ways, we're sorry, but we need to part ways. We will continue the session on Wednesday 25 October at 9.30 a.m. by supplementing the agenda and voting on discussed points. It means the vote at nine and a half. Thank you very much. Good night. SECURE Interrupted at 18.02 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-20-0.u54339	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, first reading, PP. Z. No. 103. The promoter is the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am giving the vote the conclusion. The amendment and supplementation of the Law on the Protection of the public on Infectious Diseases is not accepted, please vote. I find that with higher votes, 115 for, 2 abstentions and 6 against the concluded conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear MPs, we are continuing our work. The first point is - Proposal for a National Development Cooperation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2017 to 2021 but I have already seen one hand another, third in the air, so please let's go with colleague Bunjec. Here you go.
