ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25504	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club about the situation in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25505	Okay. The esteemed representative of Scibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25506	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia about the political crisis in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25507	Thank you. Anyone else want a break? Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25508	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club for the same reasons as the predecessors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25509	Thank you. Dear Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25510	Thank you, Vice President, for the same reasons as the colleagues of the HNS and HSU club requested a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25511	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25512	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I request a 10-minute break to meet the Parliament and the Croatian public with a proposal to elect the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25513	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25514	Can an expert opinion ask for a break from one that doesn't exist?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25515	No one else is asking as long as I see a break. Honorable, and seek, seek, the esteemed representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25516	Dear Vice President, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, please take a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25517	Thank you. So we don't have anyone else. Dear Representative Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25518	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, we're looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25519	Thank you. Now I think it's really gone. Be my guest, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25520	Can we go with this right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25521	We can't because, according to the Rules of Procedure, you can't take less than 10 minutes off. So, I'll see you in 10 minutes. So at 13.25. It's 1:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.25 HOURS]] Looks like time's up. Is it? It's 10 minutes. Well, I'd like to ask first on behalf of the Most, on behalf of the MOST Club, a colleague, Nicole Grmoy, called. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. On behalf of the club Let's start Croatia's distinguished representative Marin Škibola. Oh, well, we'll wait. It's not common. I mean, time. We can all watch the clock. You see how tolerated I am? A fellow Thunderbolt just to be clear. You and your colleague, Scibola, are late, and we'd actually lose. Okay, but you can still talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25523	We're waiting for our colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25524	You don't have to wait for anything. We've been waiting for you!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25525	We've been waiting three hours. The bell just rang.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25526	.../Intruder Reiner: Well, every one has a watch. Here's a colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25527	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I ran because I saw the vice president trying to take my word. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25528	Instead of being polite and thanking me for being tolerated, here are my colleagues on the left who were just saying how tolerated I am. I would advise you to keep an eye on that account after all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25529	Thank you. Just a few sentences. Since 76 signatures have been collected to elect a new president of the Croatian Parliament, it is obvious that we will choose this president here today. What's now clear is that we have the parliamentary majority. Since we already have that parliamentary majority of the position of the MOST club, the Prime Minister is to propose four ministers next week to elect ministers to the ministry, so we don't take a break with the government without four ministers. So they signed how much I saw a fellow Scybol who would speak after me, which means that there are most of the 76 signatures that will support, or 76 hands that support the new government and four new ministers. Yes, and a colleague of Sauch's, but well, he already became part of the ruling majority yesterday. So there's no reason for us to take a parliamentary break before the local elections without four ministers in the ministries. I think it'd be okay to solve this crisis. This crisis in Parliament will be resolved today by the election of President-in-Office of the Parliament, meaning there is a necessary majority. And I think it would be okay for Croatian citizens and for us as MPs, I hope that you will all support us in this, that by next week the prime minister will propose a new four ministers who will receive the support which is now obvious here in the Croatian Parliament because there is a new parliamentary majority that they make, meaning the representatives of Sach, Škibola, is not Lovrinović's colleague, I think part of that majority, Lackovic, a fellow Mišić who are... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So I'm finding out. Can I make a statement? Is there a problem? I only find out who's part of the new parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25530	.../Intruder Reiner: My colleagues please!/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25531	I'd beg the chairman to let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25532	I'm talking right now. My colleagues, please calm down and let my colleague Grumoa say what he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25533	Yes, Pupovac, Saucha, Lackovic is the new parliamentary majority with the HDZ that can, Shkibola means who can choose four ministers. And I'm calling...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25534	Who are you to call?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25535	I'm not calling anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25536	Who are you to call?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25537	I'm not calling anyone. So why are you so nervous? Well, I'm just a coworker. I didn't call anyone, I didn't say a word. ... No, I don't want anyone. [[You can't hear it.]] I'm not calling anyone, I'm trying to figure it out, mate, calm down. I'm very calm. Calm down, please. I'm finding out who makes up the parliamentary majority. So, at this point, we have the parliamentary majority and I ask you to propose four new ministers who will receive support in this House of Commons. I think it's okay for the citizens, too, that it's okay for us as parliamentary representatives and that everyone in this House will support it. I don't see who would be against it, and I don't see why you're a colleague of Lackovic's nervous if you support the parliamentary majority. So I didn't say anything ugly about you, nothing ugly. I'm not threatening anyone. I'm not threatening anyone, colleague Lackovic! So the MOST Club will be restrained on the matter of President-in-Office, we will be a constructive opposition, we have a new majority and I call for it to be shown today by the election of President-in-Office of the Parliament and by the election of 4 ministers. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25538	Thank you very much. The next word will be taken by the esteemed representative Marin Škibola. Here you are on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25539	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Croatia is currently in a political crisis situation of leadership, particular political interests are being placed above the stability of the country and the interest of Croatian citizens. This situation requires the responsibility of all political factors or we will show citizens cohesion at difficult times or irresponsibility will lead us to long-term instability. Supporting the candidate for President of the Parliament is a technical issue. We must safeguard the integrity of institutions, we must be an example to the people, not a circus of the most important institutions in the Croatian Parliament. We are not here for the sake of loyalty to political parties, but for the loyalty of the Croatian citizens whom we represent and who chose us. I did not sign for Mr Jandrokovic because I support HDZ, but at the moment it is the only way out of the situation that the most important Croatian institution continues to function. I must make it clear that I am not part of the parliamentary majority who will vote all the laws that come to the government's proposal but I will question and question everything from my own independent decision that I voted yesterday on Mr. Maric's trust vote and proved, since I was in favour of recalling the minister for the responsibility of the situation in Agror. There are currently over 300 thousand people in the blockades in Croatia, the raids are every day, and we are engaged in political bickering in Parliament. Is that moral and correct of us? Is fighting for power the only urge to lead political parties in the country while citizens need us more than ever? Look at the situation in the EU, the day after tomorrow it may fall apart after the elections in France. What are Croatia's answers to these questions? Will we cause political instability while such situations occur at EU level? Wisdom and reason should be guidance, not a spirit of confrontation and discord. I am the youngest parliamentary representative in this assembly, and I am ready to make important decisions and resist the pressures, but no individual alone can stop the crisis, but the solidarity of all political actors is needed. It's enough politics as our citizens rot in debt slavery, it's time for responsibility, not avoiding responsibility and running away from problems. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25540	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the SDP club, the honourable representative Arsen Bauk is spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25541	I knew it would be interesting. So, my colleague Schibol just said we don't have a parliamentary majority. counterpart Lackovic, the parliament serves among other things to call each other. Well, you won't tell me how. You called Grumoja, and by the day before yesterday you agreed on support for the mayor, don't do that. So, counterpart Skibola said it's not part of the majority that supports the government but that this is a technical issue. I can only tell him one thing, dear colleague today is a matter of size, not techniques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25542	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25543	Thank you very much, Vice President. It's not a bad thing for a little bit to control more jumps and get back to the culture of dialogue, and it's not bad, and I'm going to say it every time, to stop telling lies and lies about colleagues sitting in this House. [[Intruder Reiner: Please colleagues and colleagues, a little peace for the distinguished representative of Vrdoljak.]] People I talk to know very well. I call on colleagues from the SDP and MOST to sign our motion to recall the government of Andrej Plenkovic as the only way to clearly define whether or not there is a majority and thus clearly define that you show the unity of your club, first, and then a clear position in the opposition in this House. So we've launched an initiative, we haven't encountered any of yours, there's no request in our papers on your part, so I urge you to sign our motion to recall the government of Andrej Plenkovic. The HNSU Club remembers the situation from a year and a half ago when there was no clear majority, and then we first decided not to support President-in-Office of Parliament's election but that that point was then, the point of the defined majority in the Croatian Parliament and we voted against the colleagues of Reiner then, because not personally, of course, but because we wanted it to be the moment of proof of who has the majority, if you remember. Then both HDZ and MOST showed their majority in the Parliament. After that... the situation when we chose our fellow God Petrova was clear most of it. Which one? Most and HDZ. And we are from a political culture that has some roots in this country and we must keep supporting the choice because most of it was clearly defined. And today we won't be held back, today we're going to be against it as a club of HNS-HSU precisely because the situation from a year and a half ago repeats itself. And we will clearly say that we are against, so that we can see who is in favour and who is the clear majority in this House. And another suggestion in the end, Vice President, maybe it's a good time to wait for fellow Petrov to go to the president for a consult. Last time I remember, he came in with Milanovic, went out with Karamark, so let's try not to change anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25544	Thank you very much. Next, the distinguished representative Petrov has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here, I didn't see, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25545	Let me just say one thing. Mr. Vrdoljak, you showed everything by not wanting to disband the Parliament yesterday, but today you're making a fig leaf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25546	My colleague Petrov, you should know better than me or at least equally that you have to refer to an article and you have not called and abused the institution. But the next Club of Representatives will be that HDZ. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25547	Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let MP Bacic speak. I asked for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to say a few basic settings about the work of this assembly, about the pious political crisis that is in Croatia as we hear from the mouth of opposition representatives at the summit. So behind us is the day when the opposition tried with law and in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure requested the resolution of one minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in this case Minister of Finance Dr Zdravko Marić. She legitimately requested his discharge and was therefore obliged to collect 76 hands. As far as we all know the outcome of yesterday's vote, it indicated that the opposition along with the MOST, which until yesterday was part of the ruling coalition, had failed. And we repeat and respond to this replacement of the thesis that there is no majority in the House, which most yesterday was supposed to collect opposition, which failed. And the inability to collect a half-seat of MPs in the Croatian Parliament in order to bring down one minister is trying to show itself by a political crisis, with the absence of a parliamentary majority, with the lack of support from the government. It is true what Mr. Vrdoljak says, what was launched by the HNS club is only correct, it is a test when the recall of the Prime Ministers and Government as a whole is requested to check whether there will then be support, majority support for the government. Until then, if we are representatives who have sworn our oath here that we will obey the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then let us try it in that sense and respect it. Not a colleague of Grumoja to try to be a new founder in Croatia and ask that parliamentary representatives seek what is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law. In fact, whether there is a parliamentary majority or not, we will know the moment when the Prime Minister proposes new ministers in accordance with the government law. A Article 7. The government law says the Prime Minister will present a new member of the government at the first next session of the Croatian Parliament and request a vote of confidence for the member. Thus, the government law says so, and so will the prime minister at the next session. The meeting will be decided by the new president together with its vice-presidents or members of the Croatian Parliament presidency. It's quite reasonable to expect it to be as soon as possible but that it will be when he says and asks for Mr. Grmoy, not Mr. Grmoya. That will be when the Prime Minister decides and when the meeting is convened by the President of the Parliament on the basis of a decision by the Presidency of the Parliament. As for today, and there are all those who want to interpret the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, it is clear to those who interpret it differently but who purposely interpret it in order to further pour oil on fire and show that the political crisis is in the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club, together with its partners, coalition partners and MPs, who support the HDZ proposal to propose Mr Gordan Jandrokovic, could propose a presidential election without 76 signatures, and this is not disputed because the majority of representatives in the Croatian Parliament are not required for the president. We could have elected President of Parliament with 39 hands. And that is the majority of 76 MPs as long as it takes to collect the quorum in the Croatian Parliament. And that's not what we wanted. We just wanted to show by collecting 76 hands, and by collecting 76 votes that this political crisis is just a fiction of a number of MPs in the first row of opposition MPs in this House. In this way we showed that there is,...... I thank Mr Maras, there is a parliamentary majority. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You will now have time and you will address and that this farce over the political crisis is concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25548	Thank you very much. The next club is a Live Wall club in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25549	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a majority of 76 signatures in Parliament, we saw it today. But the public is asking a legitimate question as to how the majority was created, in what way? How are these 76 people connected programically? What program connects you, what ideas? I've been listening to these people on this list. They've been saying all the opposites of what you've been saying for the last six or seven months that now suddenly, as with you, they're very close. Is there a reasonable suspicion in the public that this majority is made up of people who have been bought? It's about trade in political influence. If that were funny to you HDZ gentlemen, but what would you say if Mr. Reiner were to go to the Living Wall club by any chance? What would you say? So you'd say you'd say we gave him something. [[Applause.]] I don't know, maybe protection from the court, maybe we offered to pass some of his laws, maybe we offered him money. In theory, you may not be, I agree, but the public suspects. Because I'm saying, until yesterday, you were on completely opposite sides. Until yesterday, you didn't have most of it, now there is one. You HDZ have a majority, but I'm asking you now what kind of message are you sending to the public with that majority? Okay. You were mad at Mr. Petrov for running the session, and he didn't have a majority. And you set an example, your member Stipe Mesic, your member Josip Manolić did not want to leave power when he was to be replaced. You set an example for Mr. Petrov. Your country's technical president Vlatko Pavletic when former President Tudjman died was president for 30 days and gave amnesty to the murderers. You've been setting a bad example. So what do you want now? "What you sow, you reap" you must have heard. That's how tomorrow, when someone from the SDP will buy it, I'll say, without a doubt, Representative Culei or Agent Bačić on his skin, you'll feel what political trade means and how you'll feel. Your majority of you are poor gentlemen! That's a disgrace to most of them! Or you could find people and say ok. we agree on the EU, on the issue of NATO, to say what your programmes are or could have gone to elections. And what you've done to the public simply, I get all the time in inbox messages on my cell phone, they're appalled with it. Is this the kind of majority that your Prime Minister Plenkovic stood for in public here at the session? Is this Mr. Bacic's trust in institutions? Will the majority of citizens trust you more or less after this? The public gets the impression, I personally get the impression, here I am speaking for myself, that you're doing two things. One buys time for local choices, two buys people. That's my impression. I don't know, let the citizens who listen to this now, let the voters who hear it decide whether I'm right or wrong. But it seems to me that most Croatian citizens are such an impression. So this is most of it, let's say it's completely open, not most of it based on some kind of joint program, but this is most of it based on interests. And most feared of all in the interests of the personal, personal interests of individuals, and this is about the future of the Croatian people. It's about this country having an incredibly big problem, and we're dealing with meeting the wishes of one, two or three people who know very well that they're in the Parliament now and never again. And all of this here reading speech and calling for some more goals is transparent. Who has more goals, who has some more programs to go to the election, then let him prove that he has them. Well, it's not the end of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25550	Thank you very much. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, he's the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić, here you go. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25551	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think you should have warned a colleague of the Bund when he said it was two things, so when he said that people were being bought here. It offends us in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, so it offends the other MPs to whom it alludes that they have been bought. I think it is truly unworthy of one parliamentary representative in this way to demean and insult the other MPs here at the Croatian Democratic Community club. I've never been in the House tossing or accusing my colleagues from the Living Wall of any purchase, of any trade with other agents. That's what their former members sitting in the Parliament were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25552	Thank you. The following is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25553	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Article 238. A colleague of Bunjac insulted Culej and Glasnovic's representatives. I ask you to protect them because in order for the Croatian public not to get the wrong impression and not see how complementary their policy is with the policies of national minorities from the SDSS club. So, I ask you to protect Glasnović and Cule because Bunjac unfoundedly attacks them that they are not the greatest advocates of the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25554	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25555	Thank you very much. Mr. President Bačić injured Article 238, because he would like his colleague Bunjac to say what he would like to say, and the whole time he had the exact exposure, you did not interrupt him and you did not give him notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25556	I'm sorry, what hurt who?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25557	The 238th article hurt You did not warn him [[/Intruder Reiner: What?]] Article 238 injured [[Intruder Reiner: What specifically?]] Can't a colleague of Bunjac say what he wants, a colleague of Bunjac has told the truth, and a colleague of Bačić has been telling the lie all along and no one has warned him, and he asks you to warn a colleague of the Bunjac. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: What specifically?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25558	As you can see, I didn't warn anyone, so I won't even tell you, even though you were actually saying what had nothing to do with it, and you know it very well, and you abused that institution. Dear Representative Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25559	Injury of Rules of Procedure 238, you're acting against the Rules of Procedure. To insult one who is stronger you have the right, one who loses has the right to be human, but be stronger, hide it in yourself, do not show it in such an inappropriate way. Hide somewhere smoke out, shake off two minutes and that's it. You lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25560	My colleague Culey wasn't even hurt by the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I would ask that this be a short time while I'm here to not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25562	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club about the situation in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25563	Okay. The esteemed representative of Scibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25564	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia about the political crisis in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25565	Thank you. Anyone else want a break? Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25566	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club for the same reasons as the predecessors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25567	Thank you. Dear Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25568	Thank you, Vice President, for the same reasons as the colleagues of the HNS and HSU club requested a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25569	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I request a 10-minute break to meet the Parliament and the Croatian public with a proposal to elect the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25571	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25572	Can an expert opinion ask for a break from one that doesn't exist?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25573	No one else is asking as long as I see a break. Honorable, and seek, seek, the esteemed representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25574	Dear Vice President, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, please take a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25575	Thank you. So we don't have anyone else. Dear Representative Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25576	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, we're looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25577	Thank you. Now I think it's really gone. Be my guest, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25578	Can we go with this right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25579	We can't because, according to the Rules of Procedure, you can't take less than 10 minutes off. So, I'll see you in 10 minutes. So at 13.25. It's 1:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.25 HOURS]] Looks like time's up. Is it? It's 10 minutes. Well, I'd like to ask first on behalf of the Most, on behalf of the MOST Club, a colleague, Nicole Grmoy, called. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. On behalf of the club Let's start Croatia's distinguished representative Marin Škibola. Oh, well, we'll wait. It's not common. I mean, time. We can all watch the clock. You see how tolerated I am? A fellow Thunderbolt just to be clear. You and your colleague, Scibola, are late, and we'd actually lose. Okay, but you can still talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25581	We're waiting for our colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25582	You don't have to wait for anything. We've been waiting for you!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25583	We've been waiting three hours. The bell just rang.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25584	.../Intruder Reiner: Well, every one has a watch. Here's a colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25585	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I ran because I saw the vice president trying to take my word. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25586	Instead of being polite and thanking me for being tolerated, here are my colleagues on the left who were just saying how tolerated I am. I would advise you to keep an eye on that account after all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25587	Thank you. Just a few sentences. Since 76 signatures have been collected to elect a new president of the Croatian Parliament, it is obvious that we will choose this president here today. What's now clear is that we have the parliamentary majority. Since we already have that parliamentary majority of the position of the MOST club, the Prime Minister is to propose four ministers next week to elect ministers to the ministry, so we don't take a break with the government without four ministers. So they signed how much I saw a fellow Scybol who would speak after me, which means that there are most of the 76 signatures that will support, or 76 hands that support the new government and four new ministers. Yes, and a colleague of Sauch's, but well, he already became part of the ruling majority yesterday. So there's no reason for us to take a parliamentary break before the local elections without four ministers in the ministries. I think it'd be okay to solve this crisis. This crisis in Parliament will be resolved today by the election of President-in-Office of the Parliament, meaning there is a necessary majority. And I think it would be okay for Croatian citizens and for us as MPs, I hope that you will all support us in this, that by next week the prime minister will propose a new four ministers who will receive the support which is now obvious here in the Croatian Parliament because there is a new parliamentary majority that they make, meaning the representatives of Sach, Škibola, is not Lovrinović's colleague, I think part of that majority, Lackovic, a fellow Mišić who are... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So I'm finding out. Can I make a statement? Is there a problem? I only find out who's part of the new parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25588	.../Intruder Reiner: My colleagues please!/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25589	I'd beg the chairman to let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25590	I'm talking right now. My colleagues, please calm down and let my colleague Grumoa say what he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25591	Yes, Pupovac, Saucha, Lackovic is the new parliamentary majority with the HDZ that can, Shkibola means who can choose four ministers. And I'm calling...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25592	Who are you to call?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25593	I'm not calling anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25594	Who are you to call?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25595	I'm not calling anyone. So why are you so nervous? Well, I'm just a coworker. I didn't call anyone, I didn't say a word. ... No, I don't want anyone. [[You can't hear it.]] I'm not calling anyone, I'm trying to figure it out, mate, calm down. I'm very calm. Calm down, please. I'm finding out who makes up the parliamentary majority. So, at this point, we have the parliamentary majority and I ask you to propose four new ministers who will receive support in this House of Commons. I think it's okay for the citizens, too, that it's okay for us as parliamentary representatives and that everyone in this House will support it. I don't see who would be against it, and I don't see why you're a colleague of Lackovic's nervous if you support the parliamentary majority. So I didn't say anything ugly about you, nothing ugly. I'm not threatening anyone. I'm not threatening anyone, colleague Lackovic! So the MOST Club will be restrained on the matter of President-in-Office, we will be a constructive opposition, we have a new majority and I call for it to be shown today by the election of President-in-Office of the Parliament and by the election of 4 ministers. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25596	Thank you very much. The next word will be taken by the esteemed representative Marin Škibola. Here you are on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25597	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Croatia is currently in a political crisis situation of leadership, particular political interests are being placed above the stability of the country and the interest of Croatian citizens. This situation requires the responsibility of all political factors or we will show citizens cohesion at difficult times or irresponsibility will lead us to long-term instability. Supporting the candidate for President of the Parliament is a technical issue. We must safeguard the integrity of institutions, we must be an example to the people, not a circus of the most important institutions in the Croatian Parliament. We are not here for the sake of loyalty to political parties, but for the loyalty of the Croatian citizens whom we represent and who chose us. I did not sign for Mr Jandrokovic because I support HDZ, but at the moment it is the only way out of the situation that the most important Croatian institution continues to function. I must make it clear that I am not part of the parliamentary majority who will vote all the laws that come to the government's proposal but I will question and question everything from my own independent decision that I voted yesterday on Mr. Maric's trust vote and proved, since I was in favour of recalling the minister for the responsibility of the situation in Agror. There are currently over 300 thousand people in the blockades in Croatia, the raids are every day, and we are engaged in political bickering in Parliament. Is that moral and correct of us? Is fighting for power the only urge to lead political parties in the country while citizens need us more than ever? Look at the situation in the EU, the day after tomorrow it may fall apart after the elections in France. What are Croatia's answers to these questions? Will we cause political instability while such situations occur at EU level? Wisdom and reason should be guidance, not a spirit of confrontation and discord. I am the youngest parliamentary representative in this assembly, and I am ready to make important decisions and resist the pressures, but no individual alone can stop the crisis, but the solidarity of all political actors is needed. It's enough politics as our citizens rot in debt slavery, it's time for responsibility, not avoiding responsibility and running away from problems. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25598	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the SDP club, the honourable representative Arsen Bauk is spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25599	I knew it would be interesting. So, my colleague Schibol just said we don't have a parliamentary majority. counterpart Lackovic, the parliament serves among other things to call each other. Well, you won't tell me how. You called Grumoja, and by the day before yesterday you agreed on support for the mayor, don't do that. So, counterpart Skibola said it's not part of the majority that supports the government but that this is a technical issue. I can only tell him one thing, dear colleague today is a matter of size, not techniques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25600	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25601	Thank you very much, Vice President. It's not a bad thing for a little bit to control more jumps and get back to the culture of dialogue, and it's not bad, and I'm going to say it every time, to stop telling lies and lies about colleagues sitting in this House. [[Intruder Reiner: Please colleagues and colleagues, a little peace for the distinguished representative of Vrdoljak.]] People I talk to know very well. I call on colleagues from the SDP and MOST to sign our motion to recall the government of Andrej Plenkovic as the only way to clearly define whether or not there is a majority and thus clearly define that you show the unity of your club, first, and then a clear position in the opposition in this House. So we've launched an initiative, we haven't encountered any of yours, there's no request in our papers on your part, so I urge you to sign our motion to recall the government of Andrej Plenkovic. The HNSU Club remembers the situation from a year and a half ago when there was no clear majority, and then we first decided not to support President-in-Office of Parliament's election but that that point was then, the point of the defined majority in the Croatian Parliament and we voted against the colleagues of Reiner then, because not personally, of course, but because we wanted it to be the moment of proof of who has the majority, if you remember. Then both HDZ and MOST showed their majority in the Parliament. After that... the situation when we chose our fellow God Petrova was clear most of it. Which one? Most and HDZ. And we are from a political culture that has some roots in this country and we must keep supporting the choice because most of it was clearly defined. And today we won't be held back, today we're going to be against it as a club of HNS-HSU precisely because the situation from a year and a half ago repeats itself. And we will clearly say that we are against, so that we can see who is in favour and who is the clear majority in this House. And another suggestion in the end, Vice President, maybe it's a good time to wait for fellow Petrov to go to the president for a consult. Last time I remember, he came in with Milanovic, went out with Karamark, so let's try not to change anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25602	Thank you very much. Next, the distinguished representative Petrov has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here, I didn't see, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25603	Let me just say one thing. Mr. Vrdoljak, you showed everything by not wanting to disband the Parliament yesterday, but today you're making a fig leaf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25604	My colleague Petrov, you should know better than me or at least equally that you have to refer to an article and you have not called and abused the institution. But the next Club of Representatives will be that HDZ. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25605	Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let MP Bacic speak. I asked for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to say a few basic settings about the work of this assembly, about the pious political crisis that is in Croatia as we hear from the mouth of opposition representatives at the summit. So behind us is the day when the opposition tried with law and in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure requested the resolution of one minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in this case Minister of Finance Dr Zdravko Marić. She legitimately requested his discharge and was therefore obliged to collect 76 hands. As far as we all know the outcome of yesterday's vote, it indicated that the opposition along with the MOST, which until yesterday was part of the ruling coalition, had failed. And we repeat and respond to this replacement of the thesis that there is no majority in the House, which most yesterday was supposed to collect opposition, which failed. And the inability to collect a half-seat of MPs in the Croatian Parliament in order to bring down one minister is trying to show itself by a political crisis, with the absence of a parliamentary majority, with the lack of support from the government. It is true what Mr. Vrdoljak says, what was launched by the HNS club is only correct, it is a test when the recall of the Prime Ministers and Government as a whole is requested to check whether there will then be support, majority support for the government. Until then, if we are representatives who have sworn our oath here that we will obey the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then let us try it in that sense and respect it. Not a colleague of Grumoja to try to be a new founder in Croatia and ask that parliamentary representatives seek what is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law. In fact, whether there is a parliamentary majority or not, we will know the moment when the Prime Minister proposes new ministers in accordance with the government law. A Article 7. The government law says the Prime Minister will present a new member of the government at the first next session of the Croatian Parliament and request a vote of confidence for the member. Thus, the government law says so, and so will the prime minister at the next session. The meeting will be decided by the new president together with its vice-presidents or members of the Croatian Parliament presidency. It's quite reasonable to expect it to be as soon as possible but that it will be when he says and asks for Mr. Grmoy, not Mr. Grmoya. That will be when the Prime Minister decides and when the meeting is convened by the President of the Parliament on the basis of a decision by the Presidency of the Parliament. As for today, and there are all those who want to interpret the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, it is clear to those who interpret it differently but who purposely interpret it in order to further pour oil on fire and show that the political crisis is in the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club, together with its partners, coalition partners and MPs, who support the HDZ proposal to propose Mr Gordan Jandrokovic, could propose a presidential election without 76 signatures, and this is not disputed because the majority of representatives in the Croatian Parliament are not required for the president. We could have elected President of Parliament with 39 hands. And that is the majority of 76 MPs as long as it takes to collect the quorum in the Croatian Parliament. And that's not what we wanted. We just wanted to show by collecting 76 hands, and by collecting 76 votes that this political crisis is just a fiction of a number of MPs in the first row of opposition MPs in this House. In this way we showed that there is,...... I thank Mr Maras, there is a parliamentary majority. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You will now have time and you will address and that this farce over the political crisis is concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25606	Thank you very much. The next club is a Live Wall club in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25607	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a majority of 76 signatures in Parliament, we saw it today. But the public is asking a legitimate question as to how the majority was created, in what way? How are these 76 people connected programically? What program connects you, what ideas? I've been listening to these people on this list. They've been saying all the opposites of what you've been saying for the last six or seven months that now suddenly, as with you, they're very close. Is there a reasonable suspicion in the public that this majority is made up of people who have been bought? It's about trade in political influence. If that were funny to you HDZ gentlemen, but what would you say if Mr. Reiner were to go to the Living Wall club by any chance? What would you say? So you'd say you'd say we gave him something. [[Applause.]] I don't know, maybe protection from the court, maybe we offered to pass some of his laws, maybe we offered him money. In theory, you may not be, I agree, but the public suspects. Because I'm saying, until yesterday, you were on completely opposite sides. Until yesterday, you didn't have most of it, now there is one. You HDZ have a majority, but I'm asking you now what kind of message are you sending to the public with that majority? Okay. You were mad at Mr. Petrov for running the session, and he didn't have a majority. And you set an example, your member Stipe Mesic, your member Josip Manolić did not want to leave power when he was to be replaced. You set an example for Mr. Petrov. Your country's technical president Vlatko Pavletic when former President Tudjman died was president for 30 days and gave amnesty to the murderers. You've been setting a bad example. So what do you want now? "What you sow, you reap" you must have heard. That's how tomorrow, when someone from the SDP will buy it, I'll say, without a doubt, Representative Culei or Agent Bačić on his skin, you'll feel what political trade means and how you'll feel. Your majority of you are poor gentlemen! That's a disgrace to most of them! Or you could find people and say ok. we agree on the EU, on the issue of NATO, to say what your programmes are or could have gone to elections. And what you've done to the public simply, I get all the time in inbox messages on my cell phone, they're appalled with it. Is this the kind of majority that your Prime Minister Plenkovic stood for in public here at the session? Is this Mr. Bacic's trust in institutions? Will the majority of citizens trust you more or less after this? The public gets the impression, I personally get the impression, here I am speaking for myself, that you're doing two things. One buys time for local choices, two buys people. That's my impression. I don't know, let the citizens who listen to this now, let the voters who hear it decide whether I'm right or wrong. But it seems to me that most Croatian citizens are such an impression. So this is most of it, let's say it's completely open, not most of it based on some kind of joint program, but this is most of it based on interests. And most feared of all in the interests of the personal, personal interests of individuals, and this is about the future of the Croatian people. It's about this country having an incredibly big problem, and we're dealing with meeting the wishes of one, two or three people who know very well that they're in the Parliament now and never again. And all of this here reading speech and calling for some more goals is transparent. Who has more goals, who has some more programs to go to the election, then let him prove that he has them. Well, it's not the end of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25608	Thank you very much. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, he's the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić, here you go. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think you should have warned a colleague of the Bund when he said it was two things, so when he said that people were being bought here. It offends us in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, so it offends the other MPs to whom it alludes that they have been bought. I think it is truly unworthy of one parliamentary representative in this way to demean and insult the other MPs here at the Croatian Democratic Community club. I've never been in the House tossing or accusing my colleagues from the Living Wall of any purchase, of any trade with other agents. That's what their former members sitting in the Parliament were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25610	Thank you. The following is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25611	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Article 238. A colleague of Bunjac insulted Culej and Glasnovic's representatives. I ask you to protect them because in order for the Croatian public not to get the wrong impression and not see how complementary their policy is with the policies of national minorities from the SDSS club. So, I ask you to protect Glasnović and Cule because Bunjac unfoundedly attacks them that they are not the greatest advocates of the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25612	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25613	Thank you very much. Mr. President Bačić injured Article 238, because he would like his colleague Bunjac to say what he would like to say, and the whole time he had the exact exposure, you did not interrupt him and you did not give him notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25614	I'm sorry, what hurt who?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25615	The 238th article hurt You did not warn him [[/Intruder Reiner: What?]] Article 238 injured [[Intruder Reiner: What specifically?]] Can't a colleague of Bunjac say what he wants, a colleague of Bunjac has told the truth, and a colleague of Bačić has been telling the lie all along and no one has warned him, and he asks you to warn a colleague of the Bunjac. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: What specifically?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25616	As you can see, I didn't warn anyone, so I won't even tell you, even though you were actually saying what had nothing to do with it, and you know it very well, and you abused that institution. Dear Representative Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25617	Injury of Rules of Procedure 238, you're acting against the Rules of Procedure. To insult one who is stronger you have the right, one who loses has the right to be human, but be stronger, hide it in yourself, do not show it in such an inappropriate way. Hide somewhere smoke out, shake off two minutes and that's it. You lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u25618	My colleague Culey wasn't even hurt by the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I would ask that this be a short time while I'm here to not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next item is: - Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal is proposed by 76 representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to your benches. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38338	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Honorable MPs and MPs. I am honored that on behalf of the HDZ Club, the Social Liberal Party club, the HDS on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Club, the Reformist Club, on behalf of independent representatives Mr. Misic, Mr. Škibol, Mr. Glasnović and Mr. Sauche, I can propose to the President of the Assembly of my friend, Mr. Gordan Jandroković. As you know, Mr. Jandrokovic is our colleague with long-standing political experience and this is his fifth term, he was elected for the fifth time as parliamentary representative. Otherwise, he was the foreign minister, the vice-president of the Croatian government right now when Croatia became a NATO member and when negotiations for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full EU membership were completed. I am sure that Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic will behave with honor, dignity and responsibility. The proposal to elect Gordan Jandrokovic as president of the Croatian Parliament has just as I said 76 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, so I call on all MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to support this proposal, and to show an appropriate degree of community and dignity in the highest representative and legislative body of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38339	Thank you very much. The SDP Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk will speak appeared to discuss the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, my congratulations to Mr Jandrokovic on the nomination of most MPs, when he is elected, will also be given a card in the election. And my personal impression is that by holding a session of the Parliament as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, he was one of the better, if not the best vice president of the Croatian Parliament in running the session, not to be angry with counterpart Brkic. But so much for Mr. Jandrokovic. He became president of the Croatian Parliament or will become about a year and a half before it would become in agreement with the Most, so you were reportedly agreed. Therefore, those two years have been somewhat shorter in proportion to how much shorter the mandate of this Assembly will last than anticipated, my assessment, and perhaps I am wrong. And as far as Mr. Jandrokovic is concerned, I'd be done. We got a proposal and there's 76 names on it. 72 names that were part of the former parliamentary majority without a representative of Bruno Esih and at the bottom of the list of 4 names of colleagues, or at the bottom of one and at the beginning of the other four names of colleagues who were not part of the parliamentary majority so far. I know that Mr. Lackovic may now grow a little bit, get the pressure up, but I will take advantage of what my colleagues have the right to replicate to ask them directly. Mr. Misic, are you part of the majority that supports the government or just technically? Mr. Skibola, are you part of the majority that supports the government or just technically? Mr. Saucha, are you part of the majority that supports the government or just technically? And Mr. Glasnovic, are you part of the majority that supports the government or just technically? And you have the right to answer me. Even though you don't answer me, what are you afraid to answer? Are you ashamed of yourself? So pick up the line and answer. If you're ashamed, I'll figure it out, and I'll be in your shoes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38341	Comrade Bauk, with this last sentence, you've crossed that line that doesn't cross, so I'm asking you to come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38342	Dear colleagues and colleagues, SDP MPs' club will not vote against Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic's election as president of the Croatian Parliament. The SDP advocates' club will not vote or hold back on the president of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, given the circumstances in which and the way this is drawn up, I don't know whether to call it technical or ruling or any majority we can't give our vote to the gentleman,... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So given the circumstances in which this parliamentary majority was created, we can't even vote for, we're sorry about that. I hope that there will be conditions for a more normal assembly of the parliamentary majority when we will be able to vote for Mr Jandrokovic as well. And you won't, so you don't have to take it personally, like Bozo Petrov didn't have to take it personally that we voted for him for President of the Parliament or Mr. Reiner when we were abstentioned. So, from Mr. Scybol's presentation, it's clear that he had a written speech and wanted to justify why he was involved in this. I can listen to everything, so I guess I proved it. ... You got it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I have a right to ask. Well, you're not gonna forbid that, are you? Is there 88 minus,...... Mr. Vice President, I think it would be okay to warn your HDZ colleagues to let me finish, if I say something wrong that you interrupt me and possibly give me a warning if I do but they don't interrupt me, I don't want to spoil my classmate Jandrokovic's moment, I just want to ask questions and I asked people to give me an answer if they want to. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it was 88 minus 15, 73, minus Mrs. Eshi 72 and up to 76 was missing 4. Those four names are here, I'm sticking to an absolute subject, and I'm talking about the circumstances in which those four names occurred. I have invited my colleagues from the speaker to confirm that they are also part of the parliamentary majority, I believe for these 72 for the government not for the election of presidents, not technically. If they do it then it's clear and if they don't do it then it's also clear why they don't want to do it. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm raising my voice to one of my fellow MPs, I just responded to a bench throw. Well, Mr. Vice President, I don't know if you gave me a warning about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38343	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38344	In that case, I don't think I have anything else to add. The SDP representative club will not be against Mr Jandrokovic's election, we will not be held back, unfortunately we cannot be in favour, we will not be at the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38345	Thank you. The next is on behalf of the Live Wall Club, distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38346	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I'm looking here today that you've all come from HDZ recently, I think there's only one gentleman missing here Andrija Mikulić, and there's Mikulić, sorry, he's here, but basically this government of yours doesn't have a real majority. The majority collected for the election of Mr Jandrokovic is unfortunately not the majority that is collected in a way that implies the democratic will of the voters and I will say why. Because people who voted for the SDP list and chose a colleague of Sauch so they wouldn't have thought of voting for a man who would support, say, HDZ Minister Maric. And that HDZ has the President of the Parliament. So in the Sauce case, it is definitely about abuse to say so in an electoral system in which elected representatives of citizens are essentially not citizens who have chosen them but, unfortunately, their own personal interests. So you can't say that what we're looking at today at the Parliament is a festival of democracy. This is not a democracy. This is a rule of unfortunately personal interest. As for Agent Scybol, today I spoke to him at the club and I asked him, "Skibol's colleague is no longer in our club, he left us." I asked him if you supported in the political sense of HDZ? And he said no, he said he wouldn't be part of that ruling majority in terms of political, so the election doesn't know the ministers, etc. which he showed yesterday when it was a vote on Maric. So yesterday he voted in favour of the resignation of Minister Maric. I hope that in the future, counterpart Škibola will continue politically not to support HDZ, and his decision to support Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic can be understood by the motive for not disbanding the parliament. It means, but only on that side and on the human side can I understand it. But I hope that the voters who voted for him will never be one of those famous guards of quorum and handlifters, but will act on their conscience. I was with my friend Schibol at the dissections, we talked a lot about HDZ, and you know when they came to me and said, hey, Schibol signed me first, the first reaction was shock, are you sure? Then they said, yes, yes. And in the end, I realized that your goal was to maintain the Parliament as such. However, as I said, the future would show whether it was an exclusive goal or if there were other motives. I hope so. And as far as the other defectors are concerned, it should be noted here and Mr. Rechimer Vardo who crossed from HSU. So he was also elected on the list of the Kukuriku coalition, and now supports HDZ. It's the horror of ladies and gentlemen that you've created a majority with such people! And now we get to colleague Zeljko Lackovic and his vote. Namely, Zeljko Lackovic was elected to the coalition list together with Milan Bandic for the elections. And the mandate Mr. Lackovic has doesn't actually belong to him, but belongs to Milan Bandic. So Milan Bandic is the one who gave him the mandate. If Mr. Zeljko Lackovic had won that mandate himself and belonged to him and supported this government, that is, Mr. Jandrokovic, I would have condemned him. However, since the mandate does not originally belong to him, Milan Bandic, I do not condemn him. But as I said, Mr. Varda's conduct, which was openly classified on the side of HDZ's majority, means it supports them politically not only technically. And Mr. Sauche, who unfortunately supports it, would only technically support it if he supported President-in-Office's election. But unfortunately, he also made a decision to support Minister Maric. And now, Mr. Saucha, you know what question is being asked? The question is, how will you behave in the future? Will you vote for HDZ ministers tomorrow? Or worse, will you be one of the ministers? I remember when I was with you at the SDP club, we were all sitting there together, messing with colleagues from the SDP and me and you, and they said the Pernars you chose, the ones in terms of over-reliance. I said, "Give the people what is yours!" And then we asked Sauch the same thing that you were the minister and Saucha laughed with us. And it wouldn't have occurred to me that Saucha would support them. But I'd like to remind you of one detail, which is that the mob works on principle to get a man into trouble first, and then give him a hand to get them out of these problems. These men, Mr. Sauch, who are now giving you a hand to help, are the same people who took you to Remetinec. The same hand, the same hand that led you to Remetinec, is now pushing your hand to vote for them. And that way it's not good that Mr. Saucha is the least in your interest. They don't need you. You are Mr. Saucha to them as Mr. Glasnović said a useful fool, they take advantage of you. They're taking advantage of you, Mr. Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38347	.../Intruder Reiner: Comrade Pernar, I ask that you do not insult the parliamentary representatives and that you do not say that your colleague Sauchi is a fool./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38348	I'm taking off my MOST colleagues' hat, because I think you're being dumped because you've been supporting them all this time. But for the behavior of this in terms of HDZ in this finale here I appreciate and respect. Unfortunately, we're going back to the thought Mr. Bunjac said. All the time, we've been saying that the HDZ government, or most of it, is based on personal interests, not on the public well-being of the majority. And I just want to say one thing to you, colleagues from HDZ, to put me in a position to choose, to go to jail, to lose my mandate or to raise my hand for you and sit there, you'd rather go to jail. That would be my choice. Unfortunately, most people aren't as strong as that and you managed to break them. You managed to break them. And I want to tell you gentlemen of the HDZ that this majority, this mole, most of which is actually if you believe the testimony of fellow Scybols, it's not the actual majority is collected and concluded on one I'm not going to say exactly what in the context of classical corruption, but here it's about character corruption, says in English corruption ofcharacters, where here the weakness was on a particular individual. What the public is interested in, what I would like to say to the public in Croatia who may have condemned colleagues to Sach, Škibol, Misic, Glasnović or Mr. Lackovic, I want to tell you that for a long time I thought that the problem in a certain man means the type of problem is Mr. Saucha, but in time I realized that the weakness is part of the human nature of the vast majority of people and that 90% of the citizens who are now throwing trees and stones at Sauchi found themselves in his position, unfortunately, I am afraid that they would do the same. And that's what's really the scariest thing, that we don't just have a problem with corruption in politics, we have a problem with corruption at the level of every single citizen who agrees with corruption when it's in his interest, and condemns it only when it's at its expense. Unfortunately. And this day, as I said, is a sad day for democracy, this is not democracy, this is not the majority that represents the people, this is the majority formed by plotting, blackmail and the rest of me telling primitive interests and private individuals. But what's worse in the whole story is that if the SDP ran the country, it would be the same result as now that HDZ is running it, and that's the worst part of it. Because the SDP has been leading the state for years and has shown that the situation is a disaster that it is unable to run the country. And unfortunately, when HDZ and SDP accuse each other of ruining Croatia, in fact, are both administrations, both are right. But they are critical only of the other side, missing friends in a party of self-critics, and criticism and self-critics were the basis of our socialist arrangement. And unfortunately, those self-critics are missing in HDZ. And the biggest losers of this kind of policy, I've already explained in what way, will ultimately be our citizens. They're the ones who're going to be taxed on real estate, and I have to tell you that I've got a bunch of colleagues from MOST, you shouldn't have supported it, you could've said no, we're not going to do that and this construction rental, etc. They're going to rob the HDZ people. And beware of this: the people shall rob, although ye shall no longer be with them, and ye shall not hold their hands; and they have passed the law; the law is there. And how are we going to break that law now? Now that's a question, ladies and gentlemen. Same as the guests you raised the VAT to 25% because you told the man whose resignation you asked for is a good thing, Marić told you boys and girls it's the right thing to do, and in the end you see that Maric was a very dubious type and that your own support he no longer has. We could've been together when the budget was voted, we could've been together from the Most, and we from the Living Wall and our colleagues from the SDP some amendments could've gone away. And you know what happened when HDZ proposed you supported their amendments, and when you suggested if you remember what it was, HDZ turned his back on you and you saw there that they weren't your sincere friends. And Mr. Petrov, you were sitting behind me when I was saying those famous words, not to have false hopes, that those who now support you would want to take your head off in the future, and that came true. You didn't believe me. You often used to laugh at my words and words, you thought of yourself as a crazy Pernar story, but you see how crazy Pernar was talking and warning about what was waiting for us all together. And the survival of the Parliament in this form and with this majority, unfortunately, you know who only suits us, the 151 that we are in the Parliament and that we receive the pay of the Parliament, suits us, each and every one of us. But the Croatian society has nothing to do with this because where will most of the Croatian people go? And let the HDZ voters wonder if it's the policy they support because what HDZ does, the way they make most of them act like a mob, get a man into trouble first, and then blackmail him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38349	You've gone too far with your colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38350	My watch is coming, sir, please don't disturb me, I have 13 seconds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38351	Your watch can go, but you can't call anyone a mob. You can't call your colleagues the mob here, just that much. You said a lot of things, I don't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38352	Thank you. But Mr. Rainer, if you bring someone into trouble and then you offer them help to get out of the same problems that you've brought him into, then it's nothing more than a mob way of managing both the state and the government and the Parliament and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38353	We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38354	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, we see there's an intrinsicity in HDZ that there's no debate here at all. They are aware themselves that most Croatian citizens want new elections and that they do not support such over-expression, over-realing and not say what is not yet. It's exposure time. Who would have thought General Glasovic would leave yesterday and come back around the same thing today. That after she heard what her voters thought yesterday about supporting this HDZ government, Bruno Esich wrote her everything nice, today she won't be here, her signature is gone. It's exposure time. And I think that you forgot to mention it, and it would be good for you to be reading yourself, because I know, for Marina, I'm sure she won't support HDZ. And it is good that he sent this message today and that we know that there is still not a majority of the parliamentary in Croatia. There is no parliamentary majority in Croatia. It's the most important message from this rally that Marin Skybol sent. ... To me, yes? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I trust Marina. Well, I guess you don't know what Marin's thinking. There's no parliamentary majority. But what I'm about to say is, it's probably going to cement a representative's decision. You must also show yourself about those who were with you on the list as well. Mr. Misic, who jumps here and says I am also for the government, I am also for the government, not only for the Parliament, but also for the government who last time held a stamp on Karamark, you must say, I believe that you have accidentally forgotten him, I believe that you have forgotten him, you will also have to show yourself to fellow Mišić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38355	Comrade Maras, colleague Maras, you've gone too far. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the First Honored Representative, Željko Glaskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38356	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I'd say the Rules of Procedure as he is, but there's one proverb that says that in the animal kingdom, the parrot is the worst flying, but it's the best he's saying, is there anything in the Rules of Procedure against the parrots who cause people here, these former members of the Communist Party, an inherited mental band that offends no one here and offends the honorable people and with those smoke curtains? You need law, you need to put it in the Rules of Procedure here and that verbal... He's not fooling anyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38357	It's not a violation of course of the Rules of Procedure, and please don't abuse the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I beg you nicely, all together. The next replica is an esteemed representative. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38358	You should have taken advantage of Mr. Vice President's business opportunity and warned, Article 238, of course, was injured. So I'm not the one who left yesterday and came back today. I didn't sign a declaration saying I wouldn't talk to Serbs and now I'm saying something else. That's what Mr. Glasnović said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38359	I'm a colleague of Maras said, I'm a colleague of Maras who told my colleague Glasnovic that, and what you're saying is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38360	Here, look, please, watch how he's acting.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38361	I'm also watching how you're acting. ... Come on, buddy, please, calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please calm down, please, let us all calm down and speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you nicely to hold on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38362	.../Intruder Maras: Throw him out, threaten me, throw him out./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38363	No one threatened you. ... Come on, please, please calm down, calm down, please. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Maras, don't yell at me. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm giving you a warning. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I remind you again. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll remind you again. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And why are you causing scandals? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I warned him and he, he warned and he sat still and you're doing scandals. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] After I warned him he sat down, politely and you're rude still. Therefore, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38364	A colleague of Maras. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I have to react, 224, I'm not, Mr. Maras, a man who's dealt with politics in his young days, I've worked and created and paid in this country all the budgets, taxes and obligations that exist. I'm a man who, at the age of 60, I first entered and signed for anyone and any party. I've never been with HDZ in my life with anyone. I've been honorably 41 years working in all this beautiful country that I love. I'm not a populist like you who want to sit on some chair for me tomorrow, neither one can buy me in this world, nor can anyone buy me. I'm saying this out of my head as an honest man. I want this country to move forward, not crash like you all do, because you have no idea how a company is created, not the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38365	.../Intruder Reiner:.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38366	You're pure populists who know nothing!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38367	.../Intruder Reiner:.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38368	How ashamed you are to call people who have worked, who have done their job with honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38369	Comrade Misic, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Misic, don't be alarmed, please! Dear Representative Bauk, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38370	Mr. Vice President, in order to calm down a little passion, I'm proposing a break of 10 minutes and I'm not gonna call five minutes to talk after that, just so a little passion calms down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38371	Okay. I agree. I think it's good and it'll be good for everyone. I agree. Here's a break of 10 minutes. It's 2:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.40 HOURS]] The first is a replica as well as I think of the distinguished representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38373	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Pernar, he's not here right now, but I'll say a few words. The fact that we got all the legitimacy as Mr. Pernar said someone got 200 votes, some thousand, I personally got 11 thousand 11 votes of Sinjan, Lichan, Zadar, Sibenik, Kninjan and we're not professional connoisseurs. Excession is not an expression of the will of the people and a group of certain people 4, 5 MPs jump out to overstep. It is not the majority the people have chosen from one party to go to another party. We were chosen by the people with the legitimacy that as representatives of the people, this is where I agree with Mr. Pernar, as representatives of the people we represent their interests in the groups and programs with which we are elected. The fact is that today we also have a proposal from Mr Jandrokovic who told MOST that we are a dangerous group of people. When it comes from a man who was the main person both Sanader and Kosorica and Karamark and now Plenkovic, who caused this crisis, we are talking about overcoming. A parliamentary representative can't be a professional cadaver. He can show his difference from his club in certain votes. I didn't vote for the budget, I had amendments, the minister didn't accept me, I didn't vote for tax reform. I've had this discussion with my club members and I've supported your amendments, but we can't afford to bring down an institution to over-dealing, to the interests of just surviving someone, to survive the Pharaohs government that doesn't have a majority at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38374	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38375	Dear counterpart Bulj, it is shocking for the Croatian people to watch such scenes from the Croatian Parliament and to see how HDZ makes up most of them. But we are finally aware that 30% of Croatian citizens, voters support exactly that HDZ policy and support Prime Minister Plenkovic. And why is that? Because half of Croatian citizens don't go to elections saying they're all the same, and it's clear to us today that not all MPs are the same, that there are all of us. And I'm calling on this at this time all voters who don't normally go to the polls to go out in the greatest fight in this election and support us. It's your duty morally and in any other sense. And, Mr. Bulj, thank you for not supporting him when the budget was voted, and I am glad that you are now not only a ghost but also a body part of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38376	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Bozo Petrov. Here you go. No, you won't. With that we seem to have exhausted the replicas. And the next one, on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists, will be spoken by distinguished representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38377	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before the break that was set when unfortunately took place, the unloved scenes in this assembly I accidentally looked at the gallery and there were young people watching this session. And I have to say that it was terribly difficult for me at that moment when these young people were watching who came to see this High House and when they saw the ugly scenes, the ugliest words and turned out to be some of our colleagues. And really, that feeling of discomfort didn't go away. What a message they will send to their peers after these scenes we unfortunately witnessed. We are here at the point of selecting the president of the Croatian Parliament. Today we received a proposal, the signature of 76 MPs to elect the President of the Croatian Parliament for Mr Jandrokovic of the current vice president. We've already said that in this case, we'll be abstentions as a club of representatives in the vote. This is not about us, that in this particular case, Mr. Jandrokovic, we are absolutely not. This is not about the person of the current vice president whom we have in no way resented nor the conduct of a session, as counterpart Arsen Bauk said before. But I'm here to say on behalf of the club why we'll be restrained. First of all, the reason is that this election by the President of the Croatian Parliament does not, in our opinion, have democratic legitimacy. It will formally comply with the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure but will not be legitimate. And why won't he be democratically legitimate? Because these 756 signatures testify about an ad hoc accumulated quasi by the majority who are not the true parliamentary majority who are concluded against the electoral will of voters, and there is no doubt about it. In this case, there is no agreement between political parties or representatives' clubs that would precede the emphasis of the Croatian Parliament president's candidacy as would be common after the elections when there are agreements that are put on paper, which are presented to the Croatian public in accordance with the voter's will. This is about how the term has now been applied lately to overcoming an ugly term that enters the Croatian dictionary, unfortunately, it is a pity that it is ever invented because it does not serve the Croatian Assembly and everyone who participates in it. Unfortunately, here we are witnessing only the exaggeration of the actions of MPs who did not have democratic electoral legitimacy for this. And that is why we cannot vote for the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. And of course this is not a technical question, as a colleague of the SDP club said clearly. This isn't a technical question. This is a question to demonstrate and clearly show whether there is a majority not only in this Croatian Parliament but also the majority that can pass laws, which can form a Croatian government because at this moment there is no Croatian Government in accordance with the Constitution, there are not four ministers, there are only state secretaries who are not responsible for the Croatian Parliament. And let me remind you of an episode that I now remember about a year and a half ago. At that time, we freshly elected representatives of the Most for the first time came here to the Croatian Parliament and when it was discussed the formation of the Croatian Government and the constitution of the Croatian Parliament and when there were as many difficulties as you remember about whether the Assembly would be constitutional and you know that we failed from the first attempt then we were told clearly by the representatives and leaders of the HDZ and they said that the formation of the parliamentary majority implies not only the election of the president of the Croatian Parliament but that it must be done in a package that the president of the Croatian Parliament is elected in the package and in agreement with the schedule and election of the future government of the Republic of Croatia. That the question is actually being resolved in general, together. Both the president of the Croatian Parliament and the government, so the prime minister, vice-presidents, ministers, the distribution of ministerial posts and everything else. And according to this course and later distribution of other duties in the Croatian Parliament, so leadership on committees etc.. And that was the first thing we learned, so not only is the President of the Croatian Parliament elected but it must be dealt with as a whole in order to actually, as you said in the package form the parliamentary majority. Why are you now deviating from that principle you gave us a year and a half ago when we came here to the Croatian Parliament? With 76 votes, the president of the Croatian Parliament is now elected with an absolute minimum majority from which it does not even come out in any way that it is the parliamentary majority because it was clearly suggested by individual MPs. And why, at the same time as the President of the Croatian Parliament's election, the same majority you claim exists does not elect 4 ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia? And then, according to such a newly formed parliamentary majority, we could redesign all other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. This best shows that the principle you gave us fresh deputies told us and explained a year and a half ago now you don't respect that principle on your own. It shows that the parliamentary majority does not have what we all claim. So not only is this election unfortunately not having democratic legitimacy because of everything I've said but there really isn't a parliamentary majority here. We don't know how you imagined this would work at the first next meeting without the ministers we've missed, with an ad hoc vote-gathering vote in each vote. How would this affect the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament? At this point, there is no way to define the parliamentary majority at all and the layout of the post in all working bodies, and in accordance with this, I believe that we are right when we claim that this situation and that we must clearly tell citizens that it does not rest on the democratic will of citizens. This election has no democratic legitimacy, this election does not show that there is a real parliamentary majority. This is an ugly exaggeration in the middle of the mandate and it would be not far more honest, but only to return this mandate to the one to whom it belongs – Croatian citizens and to decide how and whom it will give the mandate in the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38378	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38379	Thank you very much. Comrade Podolnjak, the absolute legitimacy of this House has lost in this assembly. We won't talk about legality, but the fact is that at this point the people are being deceived. An ordinary citizen who gave us voice to someone more votes, someone less, but the people were deceived. This is an institution that must protect the interests of the voters' people who gave us to sit here. We fully agree with you on that. This is the most common gig, and this is the way people's MPs shouldn't behave. The people who look at us, the people, the voters, the ones who voted for me must be as red as I am now. Here's a failed man, a voter, this institution, people are talking today about the vote of that man, the President of Parliament who I am proud of, the people who have been with me for the past year and a half of days told you from the MOST Club that we are people of dangerous intentions. What were we doing during Sanader he didn't? Except he was high-ranking with him. What was he doing during Jadranka Kosor? Karamark? A man for all time. That doesn't have any legitimacy. Not even the preferred votes. Here's the con voter, the people who gave me the vote. The most honest thing here was the choice of who we're looking for to give the people back their mandates and that people decide on our fates whether we're going to be in this Parliament. Once we did it bravely and this time MOST was brave to do it But professional exaggerators wouldn't let that happen. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38380	Thank you. Next replica... And the answer to the distinguished representative of the Downworlder, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38381	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, you're absolutely right. I am deeply saddened that tomorrow I will read on the front page of the newspaper, on the media website that this episode is one of the saddest in the history of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, this election today will be remembered as well. And I am sorry about my colleague Jandrokovic who didn't deserve it, but this way of choosing on the basis of a falsely faked majority that doesn't have any democratic legitimacy will always be a bad example of not choosing the president of the Croatian Parliament in the House. And unfortunately, I feel sad about it, and I think it's exactly what I said that I would rather we all return that mandate together to Croatian citizens. This assembly no longer has the legitimacy to make decisions of this character and the election of the president of the Croatian Parliament at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38382	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38383	Dear colleague, my good professor. You're saying the HDZ told us a year and a half ago about some principle when it's choosing the president of the Parliament to elect vice presidents, that there's some kind of ruling majority to choose working bodies. My good professor, there is no more principle! All principles are, all values have been trampled just to be preserved in power until the local elections can only be confirmed by some ruling majority. Because when I was here today during my break calmly, I didn't call anyone, I didn't say a word about anyone. MPs who signed for the election of Parliament presidents reacted very nervously, and later, counterpart Bacic also listed them. No one answered. He said in his statement that for technical reasons he supports the election of President-in-Office of the Parliament, but that depending on what the vote is about, it will be for or against. We do not have the ruling majority, this is one of the saddest days in the history of this House the way in which counterpart Jandrokovic is elected. You said you were sorry about that, and I don't think it bothers him very much. He wants to be Parliament president, he wants to sit in that chair, and we all feel bad. The only one who saved our honor and dignity is the President of the Parliament with his honorable move yesterday. And for that alone, I'm glad I'm a Croatian representative, otherwise I'd feel really bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38384	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Podlonik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38385	Yes, you're a colleague of the Grmoy you're right, I really think that the honorable resignation of the President of the Croatian Parliament was indeed an example of how a decent one of the presidents who wants to return to the public and who is not afraid of what the citizens will say afterwards. Unfortunately, we have found ourselves in a situation that you and I, as you said as a professor, will not be able to explain to the students at my university tomorrow when I speak to them at the constitutional law college about this Croatian Parliament, the election of presidents, the parliamentary majority and everything that should be spoken on the basis of textbooks. A textbook written under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But what's going on here in the Croatian Parliament today, that's got nothing to do with it. This is really not the process that neither the constitutional creator nor the one who wrote, which is this Croatian Parliament, the Law on election of MPs because this choice is not based on this law because under this law MPs are chosen to respect the will of those who elected them and to vote accordingly in this Croatian Assembly. Unfortunately, it's not happening today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38386	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative, Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38387	Thank you, Chairman. I withdrew my past line so that the Croatian public would not continue to watch scenes that she had the opportunity to watch from the Croatian Parliament an hour ago. Is it embarrassing what's been going on for the last week or not, it'll be estimated by the citizens, or if those who later signed today decide to say how they feel today. The fact is that today's masks are down and only the blind can't see. If it is for those who go today to make a parliamentary majority which, apparently and now, according to some parliamentary MPs, is not the ruling majority, if they really hold to the legitimacy, if they hold to those institutions, they will come, they will make proposals for ministers. They will illuminate their cheeks, brighten their cheeks to the parliamentary MPs, show they hold to Croatian citizens. And if they don't, if we really have to wait for the second round of local elections so that all those who hide out today can show up, then today we witness the really saddest day, we witness today the fraud of all the citizens of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38388	Thank you very much. Next, we are now going to an individual debate and the first one will speak to the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38389	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All this has been happening in recent weeks, two in Croatia related to the Croatian government by majority, brings the country into a situation of uncertainty and instability and brings the citizens of the Republic of Croatia into a situation to lose confidence in Croatian institutions. and also here in the Croatian Parliament when the debate is being held, and when HDZ thinks about how to bring this to an end, how to meet the purpose, and the purpose is to conclude whatever the deal, buying, issuing voters, is nevertheless the majority, and then the same is being held by the session because it is more careful not to offend someone and not hurt who is on the majority list then there are scenes like this. I feel sorry for the people who have to look at it, but someone has to stand up to it and someone has to say it's not okay, when it's not going to be the president or the chairman of the Croatian Parliament. That's not right. This way of concluding most, this is not the right way to argue, and I will always fight it, whether or not it ever hurt itself. But that's who I am and I won't change. As for today and the situation we have in Croatia, we have people who have declared themselves to have a majority, then people on the list say they are not part of that majority. The most responsible for this behaviour and for this situation is political today in Croatia, Prime Minister Plenkovic. He should either call the elections or bring to the Croatian Parliament and show parliamentary majority stability. He doesn't do it, he shows every day that most of them don't. And then he wonders what passions are high. Then he wonders what people react to in one way or another. It's just the head that starts with all the problems. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not function and Croatia does not have a parliamentary majority. What I'd ask you all here and I don't think it's normal for us to go on a parliamentary break, to conclude 76 today in one way or another. We see that some also publish what their terms were for signing. Well, we never had it that way. Prime Minister Plenkovic is signing and promising things that some are not in his own jurisdiction because he is only one, the Prime Minister. Did the government make any decisions so he could put his signature on some paper? It's not normal behavior, it's not democratic procedure. It is not the way we will return and bring stability into the Republic of Croatia. What I think Croatia would deserve and for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to deserve is stability and security. Show the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic that you have a stable majority and then remain prime minister while that majority works. If you do not have a stable majority, call the election and do what is right. Return trust to the citizens and restore stability to the Republic of Croatia. You're playing with people's emotions, you're playing with people losing confidence in these institutions just to keep themselves in position. I am now 100% sure that this way of selecting Croatian MPs is not correct. It is time to change and that each member of the noun corresponds to his constituents, that he knows who chose him and that in that constituency people can say whether it is right for any of the parliamentary deputies in this way to overpower the majority, and that is not what I would say according to what was in the elections. At this point, what is happening now does not represent the will of Croatian voters. Is that a problem for anyone? Is that a problem for you, Vice President Reiner, that this does not represent the will of Croatian voters? Someone counted it today. Representatives who are going to do quorum today, raise their hands never to be chosen by someone directly to get permission for such behavior. So if this practice continues which HDZ unfortunately practices. In Croatia you have never seen SDP overrule coalitions in this way, ever. But HDZ standard and last time Karamarko was looking for a place to buy someone, now it's happening again, so how long are we going to behave like that? Why people lose confidence in institutions and choice. Well, their choice doesn't mean anything. He will vote when the elections are and he does not know how the MP will behave further. Of course, when the mandate is not a source. When we have a situation where a representative is in his best interest that this lasts as long as possible, this one will never be given from the Parliament. I call you once again when, I will not be, so the Club of Representatives of the SPD will not vote in the Croatian Parliament today, this side will be empty, SDP representatives do not support this behaviour. The SDP tells the Croatian public very clearly that Prime Minister Plenkovic does not have the majority, there is no majority, this was concluded only to prevent, today, from reaching some conclusion from the Committee on the Constitution. And we ask the president of the future Croatian Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, to whom, regardless of what I will not be congratulated here in the future, we ask that we do not interrupt the session, that the parliamentary majority be determined that the prime minister proposes ministers and that they are elected to the Croatian Parliament or that the Croatian Parliament is disbanded to determine when we will go to parliamentary elections. These are two basic conditions that Croatian citizens deserve. It is not only the purpose of the authorities to conclude and to continue until the term of office as long as it is intended and there is no basis for that. When you look at the signature of the people you have gathered today, Mr. Jandrokovic, you will see that this is not right, that these signatures do not come out of the original will of Croatian citizens. Let's not, let's not put the last of the Croatian citizens on the list, let's put them first. Do not interrupt the session of the Croatian Parliament, they do not deserve Croatian citizens to have no government for over a month since Prime Minister Plenkovic changed the government. They deserve to see that there is stability, that there are MPs who will stop from the parliamentary majority, we do not see it at this point, no matter what a new president is elected today. There is no Croatian parliamentary majority. And if you don't see that you're the most responsible for it then I really don't know how to explain it. Croatian citizens see this as a purpose for themselves. I don't know why Mr. Shakespeare thought of it, who's been here from the gallery all day controlling the situation, like I came back 15, 20 years ago. He said yesterday that the parliament would be dissolved by 4.6. So everything he's saying is happening. Is Mr. Shakespeare elected to operate this way at the Croatian Assembly or are we elected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38390	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First of all, he's a respected representative of John Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38391	Dear colleague Gordan Maras, colleagues from HDZ often walk through processions, sit in the church in the front row, holding their hand on the right, i.e. hold their right hand at heart, colleagues from HDZ often present themselves as great believers. And that's why I'd like to read them a message from one of the Gospels. He refers to Jesus in the temple. He says: “He found merchants selling cattle, sheep, and pigeons in the temple. That's where the money changers sat behind their benches. He made a whip out of the rope, drove them all out of the temple." He continues to say, "Sellers he said get it out of here, don't make my father's house a market." So Jesus wanted to say that they turned the temple of God into a market. Today HDZ turned the Croatian Parliament, home of the people into a house of commerce and made a market of this, and representatives became slaves. And that's the scariest thing in the whole story. Jesus goes on to say, his disciples remembered the text recorded in the Bible: “The zeal for your house will eat me up.” So Jesus was eager to let us say a religious thing. It is sad to see the HDZ swearing to Christianity, which the priests call for to vote for because it will protect the interests of Christianity, Jesus Christ and whatnot, and from the Croatian Parliament they have made a house of commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38392	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38393	Dear colleague Maras, you've repeated most of what I said at the break. But I think we're responsible for this situation, that some of the opposition are responsible for it. If we had all been brave, if we had signed the MOST's motion to disband the parliament, that some independent MPs in fear that perhaps in the next election they would not enter the Parliament, that they had decided to sign this initiative we could go to the citizens. And Prime Minister Plenkovic would not, without the majority, have had the opportunity to wait until after the local elections so that those who are now hiding in the dark come out into the light. Representative Vrdoljak is now talking about recalling the prime minister and government. The initiative will take place behind local elections. That initiative doesn't make any sense. The only solution is to sign the motion to disband the parliament and go to new elections. But the problem is, some MPs are afraid. Is this chair more important to us or is it more important to us? Is it more important for us to preserve some privileges and wages than for citizens to lose confidence in their people's representatives? Let's go to the public. What are we afraid of? If they're going to punish us, let them punish us, but at least we'll know it's their choice. This is how we have the store. Here's a colleague of Pernar's quoting the New Testament. I like it better than the house of the store that house of the robbers. This is actually, so turned into a robber's house where MPs go from camp to camp, head of office...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38394	Thank you. My colleague Maras will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38395	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, you're a little too many of these that we are, that we are. So this usually happens when there are so many conditions and variables usually don't happen. So here's a very simple situation. We have a system that, unfortunately, makes it possible, we have a part of the MP who uses that position. And I wouldn't mind if, as someone said, the MPs drew the will of those who chose them. So with election day in the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately, the umbilical cord with its voters has stopped. So, the SDP will never support this way, neither SDP representatives nor we are ready to sign and disband the parliament. And hopefully that will happen. We hope the prime minister will understand that this is not a normal situation and that no MPs should be bought and after local elections try to agree on a majority that will be two, three worse. Well, I'm sure the HNS won't support it either. Who's gonna back him up? The HSS won't support him. Who are these MPs? This is how it's gonna look. And the budget when it comes back will be 76, 77. Again, the papers and lists of priorities that individual MPs will seek will be negotiated and signed. It's not right and it shouldn't be. And so we're going to watch it for the next 2,3,4 years or we're going to watch it until the moment Plenkovic answers. But that he personally has the only right to keep Croatia hostage in this way? I don't think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38396	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Predrag Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I've been listening to this debate all day and I want, I really want and I believe, but I want to believe that HDZ has changed, but it hasn't. On the social pages of General Glasnovic, he published a price list of how much his vote is for HDZ and for the support of this whole thing. It was contained in five points, and signed by Minister Medved, State Secretary Zdravka Busic, and the worst and bottom is also the signing of the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. So the price list at five points, I don't know what it costs the second, third and fourth. The first cost, I guarantee you, a billion and 300 million kuna. Now that's the price of General Glasnovic's voice deepened for some certain number, as much as these others cost, I don't know. I don't know why I should call you colleagues anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38398	The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38399	Well, now I might surprise you with my replica. I don't even blame General Glasnovic here, who is fighting for the population who chose him here, but does Prime Minister Plenkovic take over their obligations in this way, this way without the government's decision, without Parliament's decision? How will they execute them? Is this an influence trade? Where is the border by trading influence between this kind of behavior and where is a political decision? If things like this happen that you come with paper and you tell me to handle this, it's the Prime Minister's signature and I'll vote for you, where's the end? So any of the MPs here can have their own terms. For example, someone who is an entrepreneur may seek some incentives for a group of their entrepreneurs. Does anyone have the right to make a commitment on behalf of the Republic of Croatia just to show and to allow someone to vote for it? And is this what you've just told colleague Maric a political decision and is he burdening the budget for the coming years? Absolutely burdens. This explicitly shows that there is a trade here and who knows how much more trade and that Croatian citizens need to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38400	And the last replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38401	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras. You're right when you say this is the prime minister. He pulled out the sword, replaced three ministers within three minutes and thus brought down the parliamentary majority, after which he resigned instead and asked for a new term of office from the president based on the new parliamentary majority, he set off on the shift of President-in-Office of the Parliament, who still resigned, with little restraint but submitted it. However, the main responsibility is at the prime minister, so he should have started formal negotiations on drawing up a new parliamentary majority and on these official negotiations to report to the Croatian public. So we should have known who he's negotiating with, what he's negotiating, what are the conditions, what are the goals, what are the new majority. And what we've been looking at these last days is right here today, so we can find out these conditions, keep an eye on the facebook. So we find out how the parliamentary majority occurs by reading the facebook. So is this trust in the institutions, is this improving the dignity of the Croatian Parliament that is being talked about all the time? Sending people SMSs, having conversation in the towers in some secret places, by the rooms, offering these terms, those terms of convenience, bribes eventually, getting people by pressing, blackmailing who knows what was going on that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38402	Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry that this is the way you behave so it's not easy for people in that position either. Now the media and journalists are going to analyze for the next few days why someone wrote, why they signed one, why they signed another, and people are going to be on the wallpaper, everyone who contributed to this situation. But these people are not solely responsible, the one who launched this initiative is responsible. The President of the Croatian Government is responsible for the fact that at this point ten days after changing his government and it is the law, I am now sure that the Government Act is guilty in these cases, Prime Minister Plenkovic must seek the majority in the Croatian Parliament. According to this logic and this way he acted, he could change ministers one by one and only supplement the will that he had. What if he had replaced 19 ministers, could he still be prime minister? Unfortunately, under the Law on the Croatian Government, he could stay. He had to and must not be within as soon as possible but had to show yesterday or a week ago immediately after making the change of ministers he had to show which majority he counted on to manage Croatia's next period. Because he did not take the greatest responsibility and took responsibility for this escalation, which is unfortunately happening in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38404	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On this very day a year ago, the front page of one daily newspaper, a large printed title, the HDZ declares the prime minister is under the influence of Pasalić and Opus Deia. So the decommissioning of Tihomir Oreshkovic started, the quarrels within the parliamentary majority, convinced us until the last day that the situation was under control, that the government would argue, that the government that then ruled the state had legitimacy in terms of the parliamentary majority, we know how it ended. Today, a year later, some decisions were made in the meantime, introduced to real estate tax that was actually called a dangerous harrass and a brutal attack on Croats, precisely from the HDZ, which is today being introduced by the HDZ. In these years, we have also seen that they have accumulated highways, that you have favoured tax reform for the rich, that health is destroyed, that curriculative reform is generally not intended to give any steps in education space or millimeters, that young people are deprived of the benefits of buying the first real estate, that they are made more difficult by professional training without establishing a working relationship. And in addition to all the damage that has been done to these Croatian citizens, which has fallen quite far from all the pre-election promises of the HDZ today, we are in a position for the prime minister to speak of the parliamentary majority again as some kind of a jet, something that is only talked about and no one has seen the majority. And the question of the parliamentary majority is no technical question, and I cannot agree absolutely with the colleagues who have voiced here today that this is some kind of technicality. The issue of the parliamentary majority, or the majority, is absolutely everything in democracy. Without most, there are no election results, without most of them no Croatian Parliament, without most of them no Croatian government, without most of it there is absolutely no functioning of the normal Croatian state. The fact is that at this point, the government has no legitimacy and does not have a legitimate parliamentary majority. The coalition that has chosen the Croatian government in this Croatian Parliament no longer exists. 88 MPs who raised their hands for the government of the Republic of Croatia have simply melted to this day, they do not exist. And instead of Prime Minister Plenkovic saying nicely, I replaced the three ministers in 3 minutes, we don't have 4 ministers in the Croatian government, I can't go on, I don't have a parliamentary majority, I'm giving up my hands, I'm giving room for citizens to say again who they want to lead Croatia on, he simply deceives the public just like Karamarko did a year ago. And it actually puts Croatia in a situation of further instability, puts Croatia in a position where citizens squeeze their problems have no idea what will happen tomorrow, no one deals with their problems, does shopping, key people in this country deal with shopping and spring sale. Where did you get the right to keep Croatia in a hostage crisis, incompetence and instability? Where does that come from? Where is the right here today to somehow try to create the impression that things are under control, that the government will have a parliamentary majority when we see that the MPs who signed the request to elect a new president of the Croatian Parliament here are decidently saying that this does not mean support for the Croatian government. You didn't show anything today with these 76 signatures, you didn't show that you have a parliamentary majority, that you have a stable majority. You have not shown that you can guarantee stability in Croatia, but only that you have shown that you guarantee it a permanent unstable state. You have shown that before the local elections you want to create the impression that things are under control and you have made it very clear that you intend to spend these months while local elections continue shopping because 76 votes for the government and new ministers do not have, you are going shopping. Do you really think that the Croatian people deserve to be sent from here today a very clear message that the issue of the parliamentary majority has come down to trade? Do you really want to be perceived as a trading party? And do you want to send a message today to Croatian citizens that Croatia is viewed as a prey, a common prey? I think what is happening today in the Croatian Parliament sends a very, very bad message to our citizens because the key people of the Croatian elite who have approximately, approximate majority, send a very clear message that in this country everything knows the price and nothing of value. And that's what's going to be the worst result of all today's moves and what's been going on in the last 24 hours and you don't intend to stop in the next month. Mr. Glasovic has already charged his vote. But you didn't give that money for Mr. Glasnović's demands out of your pocket remember that! Remember! By buying his vote worth several million kunas, billions of kunas you have owed and taken that money to Croatian citizens. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38406	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38407	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Glasovac, you said in your statement that the Croatian government, i.e. HDZ, bought the general's vote. Well, I'm asking you next. I've looked at the website, or on Facebook page that document now. It says it was signed by an independent parliamentary representative and three other HDZ members. Under their names, they do not write functions in HDZ, on the page, but functions in the government. So the Prime Minister signed Andrej Plenkovic, Defence Minister Tomo Medved and State Secretary at the foreign and European affairs ministry Zdenka Busic. This document has the character of a coalition deal. Whether the coalition agreement is signed by parties, political forces or signed by state bodies, or by government with some of the parliamentary deputies. What is the character of this document? If political arrangements can be reached, the check can be sent to the Government, i.e. to the state budget and to all Croatian citizens. Does this document redefine the priorities of the Croatian government and change its policy, i.e. is the Croatian Government valued by this document? This is not a repeat agreement as signed, a coalition agreement between an independent representative and the HDZ political party. This is an agreement between an independent representative and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Is the Government allowed under the Constitution to make such agreements in order to achieve the majority of the Parliament? I'd like someone to explain it to me. I'd be happy to have the Prime Minister explain it to me, but it'll be enough for someone from HDZ to explain it to me as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38408	Thank you. Obviously, you've sent this question to a colleague of the Voice, so I guess she'll answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38409	I don't think the Prime Minister can answer that because he's not in Croatia. There is a situation in Croatia so casual, things are running their course, everything is stable so there is no need for it to be in the Republic of Croatia, there is more important work, who cares. What you said, that this is the legalization of what we've been talking about all morning and it is quite clear that all of this will be paid by Croatian citizens without anyone asking them. Existence, still questionable sustainability because in fact with this signature where they burdened Croatian citizens with several billion they still do not have a majority, because this Mr. Schibola has said that his support for the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament does not mean support for the government. So it will cost Croatian construction even more. It's also interesting that Mr. Glasovic here had a nervous attack like this when Mr. Maras had his exposure about an hour and a half ago. And by his very defiance and insult of his colleague Maras, he danced on the wire and almost got a warning. So he deserved a warning that the President of the Parliament didn't give him. Because if Mr. Glasovic had given him a warning, he would have had to leave the assembly, he could no longer return, they lose one vote for the Croatian Parliament's vote. You see he's gone after that. He'll probably just go to the polls. The atmosphere that has been created in these 24 hours and which they intend to continue as we deal with the citizens of the local elections is something that really does not serve the ruling, remains of the ruling majority, despite what Mr Bacic said today that he is honored here what can be proposed by Mr Jandrokovic for the new President of the Parliament. I don't mind Mr. Jandrokovic himself, but the way this is done really shouldn't honor anyone if they have a little face and conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38410	Thank you very much. You could have learned by now that when you get a warning, you don't have to leave the hall. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Glasovac, you spoke in your presentation on trade in influence, political corruption. This is the worst thing that can happen in one Parliament and will certainly reduce citizens' trust and politics, faith in politicians, which will consider why they would go to elections if it actually decides something that does not directly concern their lives. So, you mentioned a Mr. MP who insulted our colleague Maras here who allegedly made some kind of voice agreement that would give support to this majority we have here today. If that's true, it's actually the twilight of democracy in Croatia, it's actually indirect evidence of Prime Minister Plenkovic's anxiety when I asked him from this place in the debate if he was aware that he had been directly or through his mediators in the past days doing what his colleague Sabo had done in prison. So, counterpart Plenkovic, who does not have a parliamentary majority in his term, explicitly stood behind the plagiar minister, supported the minister in the conflict of interest, and now directly, indirectly deals with political trade, or political corruption. Could it be worse for the future of Croatian democracy, whether it is in line with what was written in Dubrovnik long ago forget privately, think publicly. Unfortunately, it is not, and this is another proof that I also resent the former President of the Parliament, Mr Petrov, that we still do not have the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which could call for a session and discuss all these issues, unfortunately there are still no outside members selected and this is a contribution to the development of democracy and the fight against political corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38412	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38413	Well, if you were a colleague of Jovanovic's, that's what I just said in my presentation. We send a message to young people, children that, unfortunately, in Croatian society, everything is priced and valued. But I'm not surprised by the modus operands, you know that I come from Zadar, which sounds unwarranted in fact for some fortification of the right-hand HDZ, like where HDZ is invincible. And you see, you had local elections where the mayoral candidate was one great man who was the head of the SAS at the time, the largest firm in the fifth company to carry the Zadar economy and in the then-Yugoslavia that won the elections. They won the election, but overnight a councilwoman was bought from his independent list and simply the voter's will changed overnight. And then it's you so it's a modus operandi, so when HDZ could take the fair elections he was winning when he couldn't then he bribed, nothing new. But unfortunately, this Croatian Parliament today 10, 20 years after some of the events that we should condemn in society it is unfortunate that we have remained in place in some frameworks and that some bad habits continue to be repeated, that we do not correct the wrong Drina as it is said picturesquely, where we see that we may have made a mistake in the past. There is no big difference between Karamarka-Plenkovic, Tihomir Oreskovic's government and this government, the principle of the same, all other nuances that Balasevic would say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38414	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative of Predrag Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38415	Thank you very much. So as is said many times today, if someone with someone can't or what the policy logic says is going ideologically according to the programs, if that's not how it goes then materially we see this today on the x times in HDZ's direction. And my colleague Klisovic is the management of my colleague Glasovac, so at least to make an oral agreement, I don't think I'm here to advise him, at least to agree on it orally, but it's written on paper and it's not an agreement with General Glasnovic, but it's an agreement by the Croatian government that gives a strange flow even greater. The only thing he'd say is that there's still no seal in that whole story. But we had a case like that with Saba. Sabo ended up in prison for small money. Here you do the first point over a billion and 300 million kunas, no one at all. Whether this may be an invitation for some institutions to take a look at it, signatures can be seen if they do not need to be arranged graphically. We have a country to say to my colleague Culej, and those times have come to quote him, paraphrase him, so I bled my underpants in Vukovar and three Serbian concentration camps to do this to us today. And what's going to happen? For 4,300 kunas, someone will end up in prison, for a billion and 300 million dollars, without talking about what he took 43 billion, he certainly won't end up in jail. Great.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38416	Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38417	Well, yes, contracts are signed, but don't be burdened with your pocket. It will be paid by Croatian citizens, just like this Renata Perosh I told you about. So her price was not paid by Calmet, they paid for the Zadar citizens because after that, the names were named as the head of the National Museum, they even gave her two years ago and the prize of the city of Zadar. I'm surprised they didn't give her a reward she actually deserved a life-form award because if she hadn't sold out then Calmeta would never have been a minister of heaven and country and would never have come into a position to get money out of the loosed companies and to be burdened with the criminal actions of a budget with several billion kunas. But it is to you, Mr. Maric, unfortunately so, all for power, power for nothing. But I guess better days will come, our citizens are watching all of this, watching, watching, but not even citizens are foolish, they have a lot of patience, they're used to lying to them, cheating, cheating, cheating but don't and don't be so sure that they can always be as they want, as they will and as long as they want. There will come a time when they will say enough, only then it may be too late for damage control.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38418	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38419	Thank you very much. After all the events in the largest body of the Croatian Parliament, after everything that happened in the government, after the promise of Prime Minister Plenkovic i.e. Publicly spoken words in the government when he was most oblivious in the ways of Eva Sanader, three ministers relieved him of his duties, it was evident from his words that the man had a majority. However, gambling was created. I won't name anyone here, but as a representative, one of you who received the mandate of the people must send messages from this people because the only thing we draw legitimacy is that legitimacy that gave us that people. After what we have seen today in the last few days, after hanging around the halls, which included all Seks, Valentiæi, Gregurići, we have seen the praises of the media, the headlines, it was seen that there is no majority, that Parliament does not have a majority. And now that we've seen who's in most we see that from different groups are individuals on that list. If it's most of them, most of them who signed it later say they're not the majority. So, according to the people, I told the voters before in the replica, I personally received an 11 thousand-point 11 votes. From where... The cheek to come among these people when they see how the gigs are here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most last year, we had all of our fellow colleagues and colleagues who had the same situation, and then what was supposed to be happened, we came back, we couldn't get together, we returned the mandates to the people, the people told theirs. Many colleagues have entered a parliament that has not been in the previous meeting, and now the same can happen. But it is fair and fair for our voters and our people to restore their hope to the institution. In the institution of the Parliament, in the parliamentary term, i.e. This legitimacy which we draw exclusively and only from those who pay us, which are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When we look at the groupings as they're stacked up for most of it, it's obvious that there's something wrong. I'm gonna say it out loud again here that the man who told us about us here 15 that we're a group of dangerous people. I don't see any reason why this proposal of 76 parliamentary deputies had any reason to tell us here that we are a dangerous group of people. Unless we're dangerous to criminals for those who robbed this country, I don't see anything else. And we only draw danger from what the people gave us, which is the legitimacy of the voices. That's what draws this council or majority or minority, but when it's lost, at least let's get rid of it, let's not be a capechariat, a market, a dolac. Well, those aunts better behave, at least they're smiling. I personally, my colleagues said, colleague Podolnjak on behalf of the club, that he would vote with abstention. I, against man, have nothing personal, which has been in all governments, since Sanader, Kosoricino, was close and Mr. Karamark, and now the key word leads in this whole period that he has said to us that we are dangerous people, perhaps even guessed, I can't vote for him or vote for it. Because by stalling and cheating voters, I can't give you legitimacy. I can't, no matter what I haven't talked to a man twice, I can't give him that legitimacy. And to voters, i.e. I am sending a message to the people who supported me to blush on behalf of them, because of what is happening in the Croatian Parliament in the largest House where we have sworn that we will fight exclusively for their interests. I personally did not vote in favour of the budget, precisely because of these citizens, also because they had not fulfilled the promises for these undeveloped landscapes to be brought to life, to be fairer to those parts, I could not support that budget no matter what I am here with my colleagues at the Most who have not been easy to watch me watch as I am the only one who does not support the budget. I would ask all parliamentary deputies to keep this dignity, the dignity of this House, and that it would be fairest if there were no majority, if the prime minister without most of them couldn't get the government illegally managed by four State Secretarys, that it would be the most honest thing to say self-degradation, that we all have the opportunity to sign and do so so that we can at least have a clean face to look at these voters, now that we're back among them so that we can look into their eyes. And whom they choose to choose, let them choose who they think they can best represent, them, their interests, the interests of those parts. This is the cry of that voter and me as a man. It's the most honest thing we can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38420	Thank you. Your exposure caused a whole series of replicas mostly from your club, but let's take a turn. He is the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38421	Dear fellow Bull, I'd like to ask my colleague not to throw himself out of the bench, to behave a little bit. ... Yeah, but I'm talking now and it's your turn to listen. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My friend Bull, you're absolutely right. The bottom line that all principles and all values have been overrun, that the MPs elected on the National Coalition list have now ruled for the election of President-in-Office of the Parliament, that we have representatives who have signed for President of the Parliament but claim that they are not part of the parliamentary majority, means we have no parliamentary majority. And what I've been saying all morning is that it's time to join the minister's election. Why is Prime Minister Plenkovic afraid? If he has the parliamentary majority to come here, let him propose to the ministers and show whether there is a congregation majority or not. But no one in this debate mentioned one important fact. Except that two-thirds of the clubs Change Croatia, Ivica Misic and his counterpart Škibola supported the meaning of the President of the Parliament and Lovrinovic is a candidate of the Living Wall because of the elections in Zagreb, so he does not want to wait until after the election, so he will probably be part of the majority. We have another problem with yesterday's vote. Here he sends me, I didn't know about this information, he sends me a man, says, in yesterday's vote on the issue of trust to the Croatian Parliament, there happened an inadmissible precedent that ruins the foundations of the constitutional order of this country. In a vote that ended with an undecided result, in which the vote of each representative was individually crucial to the resolution of a serious political crisis was part of a person who should not have a mandate in the Croatian Parliament at all. It is a respected colleague from the HDSSB, Josip Salapic, who holds his term in the Croatian Parliament as a replacement for elected representative Branimir Glavas. About how there's been a replacement, we have our own attitude in this House of High.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38422	.../Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38423	Will you let me?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38424	.../Bukarica Invader: No./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38425	Well, I know you won't, I'm telling the truth, and this is what you've been involved in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38426	Please! Don't throw a man like that. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38427	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Grmoya has injured Article 236. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, my colleague, I've been here six months. I voted for your President of Parliament, then you didn't object. I voted for your ministers, then you didn't object. People who could have violated my mandate could have addressed the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. No one has spoken to you. It's pure politics. If I answer to you when I vote for your President of Parliament and your ministers, and you've been silent for six months, it's about your cheek that's as thick as a sole and stop harassing us. You deal with what you're for, and it's plotting, not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38428	Well, that wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica, pardon the response of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38429	A colleague of Grmoi, and I think it will be a real exaggeration and what they intend to do after the local elections, because it is certain that some who are mayors for the city's candidate, that it is not a good time for him now, and that the candidate of one option that opposes the current main conflict with HDZ, that it is not appropriate to be now as in most cases. But there's half his club in most of it. Of course the same thing happened last year, so we went to the election. Here you have entered Parliament as a very good parliamentary representative. Ivan Pernar, Mr. Bunjac has entered, and some of our colleagues have not entered Parliament. So that's how we'd like to return the most honest mandate now or bring the prime minister here and say who these ministers are and that most of them vote the ministers and see who will be the minister from which group. This will try to be done naturally after local elections, as some have important local elections and will continue to trade afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38430	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj in this government crisis has often been mentioned that MOST has caused the destabilisation of the state, even the arguments that we will harm tourism, that tourists will not come to Croatia because there is instability. However, no one mentions that we will enter the tourist season without the interior minister. So that's not a problem, that's not destabilization of the state and without the minister of justice. So how do you comment on the fact that Croatia will, in all likelihood, enter the tourist season without two very important ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38432	Well, I'm not surprised by those statements...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38433	Buddy Bull, I can give you my word or that's not necessary, is it? Speaking of everything and everything, not the subject, then at least stick to this. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38434	I apologize. Thank you very much. Well, I'm not surprised. I can't be surprised when colleague Jandrokovic says we're a group of dangerous people. I'll do it again. I don't know what this group of people are a group of dangerous people in. Here's the people, the cameras are on and let them see. Only if they are not dangerous for those who robbed the Croatian state and in the fight against crime without taking away anyone's right to say the same. But the fact is that when someone tells you that we're a dangerous group of people that it leads to. And at that point, take down the ministers, don't have the majority and go stall. It is the right of everyone, but we are representatives of the people, the people have chosen us, and this is the most honest way for the people to return that mandate to the people, and I would once again ask my fellow MPs to sign the initiative just to disband ourselves, not to defile this House. Because about our voters, we have at least as much as we need towards our voters. It's a minimum minimum. And as for the destabilization of power, it's absolutely incorrect. Well, when she was, the election was much fairer. When it was a technical government, the biggest shifts, the best results Croatia had on all issues during the technical government because the government in which the SDP was or before HDZ was devastating. And when we didn't have government, we had the best results. What does that mean? A lot less was stolen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38435	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38436	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, here we read the contract on most Facebook. It was signed by Defence Minister Tomislav Medved, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Zdravka Busic and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. And we read in that contract that thanks to Mr. Glasovic's signature by HVO defenders will get paid back pensions. And now you imagine what would happen in Croatia if this deal hadn't been reached? The defenders wouldn't get a pension. So the payment of defence pensions depends not on whether they have a pension solution and whether they have a pension solution and whether they have the right to retire and whether they died for Croatia but whether they have paid their pensions in Croatia depends on whether one representative raised his hand for Prime Minister Plenkovic or not. And now that's what our prime minister calls trust in institutions. So how can we talk about trust in institutions if pensions are paid according to political agreement, be careful? If pensions are not paid according to existing laws, according to existing solutions, pensions are paid according to a contract published on a facebook. What can we talk about next? So anyone here can come and condition I want 100 million kunas, I want 200, I want 50, and anyone can get it, but provided he raises his hand to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38437	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38438	Comrade Bunjac, it's easy for us to be Croatian defenders. How and how much are we going to pay our colleague Pupovec, our colleague Sauch and the others, and in what way? And Croatian defenders should be left alone and their problems solved in accordance with the law. How much of this outside has been stretched out? I don't know, but the fact is that the people gave us legitimacy, someone bigger, someone smaller depending on the number of votes that could change in the next election. Many of us won't be sitting here, but it doesn't matter, but we've left our dignity to this institution, not to thee. And now we're going to read people who exercise some rights because of someone who's going to raise their hand for this or for that. People who have bled for this country need to exercise their rights, but the fact that this assembly roof body is the only one behind it can be God, and we must not humiliate this institution, we must tell voters that we must not weigh. If there's no coalition or whatever it's called, then the election's up. And not from every group of your two men, out of these two men, out of those two men, so what's that, it's pure gambling, it's a towel, it's a market, it's a dolac, it's a disaster, it's a gambling. It wasn't about most of us that sold out and we went to the election last time with a clean cheek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38439	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bull, I'm replicating you, so please listen. So several times you have said in your statement that today there has been political trade, gambling, markets, etc., such things occur between political parties or parties and independent advocates it can be immoral, unethical, but very often it is not and in principle it is not illegal. If there is between the same political agreement between the independent representative in this case Željko Glasnović and the head of Croatian state institutions such as the Government, Prime Minister, Defence Minister or State Secretary in the Ministry of Defence, is there in your opinion an abuse of office and authority by providing a certain benefit, and the benefit is a voice that allows for staying in power? To help answer my question, I will read you article 291. A criminal law that speaks of it. He says "the official or responsible person who makes use of his position or authority exceeds the limits of his authority, thus obtaining for himself or another person the benefit of staying in power or other damages will be punished by a prison sentence of six months to five years". Do you believe that this agreement, which was published on Mr. Glasnovic's website, signed by the Prime Minister, Defence Minister, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and an independent representative in the Croatian Parliament, has led to abuse of power and position by the Prime Minister and the other two heads of state bodies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38441	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38442	I'll just say that those who created the Croatian homeland must not be politically burdened and interfere with this. It was a time when arrest, location, transferred people while robbing Croatia, calling for patriotism. Croatian defenders should be left side by side because they did not fight for institutions to strive with their rights. All the rights they have need of the Croatian state if it is possible to achieve it. But nobody mentions how much a fellow Pupovian he's costing, nothing. No, that's not why I'm not saying that he's a national minority and that he insults me, not that he insulted me at any point, I didn't say that. But the fact is that when you were in 2015 with you at the interview, they signed with you before anyone else, so they run over there, run over there, that's their choice, that's their right, that's their choice. But just to mention in this context and to demean Croatian defenders of any side is not good, no one has the right to do so. In the 1990s, Croatian defenders in the community of all Croatian defenders and left and right have achieved an independent Republic and are not entitled to usurp them from either left or right, these are people who are not to be calculated but to fight for their worthy life for them and for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38443	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, it's a little interesting but for moments and it's very painful to watch you now exchange poison arrows or what you would say to heavy artillery with people you honestly licked until yesterday. What would our Vice President of the Parliament say after great love, I guess it's also normal to have such a big fight. But our citizens are watching this and I'm going to tell you something I'm going to tell you, in the end we could conclude our president and prime minister. So I'm a parliamentary representative, I'm a retired Colonel of the Croatian Army, and believe me after this, everything that's been going on in the last few years, and of course it's been pulling this off from the beginning, I'm thinking that I'm getting into this bus or a plane to Ireland or Canada because it really doesn't make sense anymore. After this, of course, the president and the prime minister can tell me that this is a free country and that I feel free to get lost if I don't like it here. But I've fought for this country, I've served for this country, and I'm not leaving. For those reasons, I won't, it's just fools like I can fish to ideology, to some pride and something, but what's done to this country and especially this point that's now arrived, this is really cake cream. So you're saying you need to ask the question of what the other MPs got, so here we see that there were 5 points and that only the first one costs a billion and 300 million kuna, as Maras would say read my lip, a billion and 300 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38445	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38446	A colleague at no time did anyone question you anything on my part what you're talking about... But the fact is that you were also an assistant secretary of defense during Jadranka Kosor and before, during HDZ, before, during HDZ's power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, I was still a soldier back then. In fact, you're telling me that I've been hanging out with them. I didn't get... voted for the budget, for example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that a familiar thing to you? For me, tax reform is never about me, so I've never had sex with anyone, but these are my friends who were in the Homeland War on the left and on the right. And I don't want to observe how you said Croatian defenders or usurper as you might now want to usurp without taking your credit for being your defenders or for being someone else's. Croatian defenders were defenders who together in the trench were the sons of Ustasha or Partisans in the trench and fought for an independent Republic of Croatia. And on their rights, political battles must not be fought. It's enough when people see us and what they've been fighting for and what we look like and what they're doing here. It's embarrassing, it's embarrassing to even take more into the mouth and my comrades as well as yours. And honor to you, a gift deep to all who were in the Homeland War and Parliaments who are now watching us but their children are going to Ireland, yes, their children are going to Ireland because you were also in the government that was disastrous where Jakovina was sending money to Todorovic instead of our OPGs. So let's not go back to that. But we can't, we have to disagree on this. But this is where he weighs himself. Let us restore the people's mandate, shed light on the face and dignity of this institution. That's the goal of not taking credit for anyone, nor do I have that right. But thank you to all who have given pain to the Croatian homeland but do not call on their victim on the left or right any more, you have made enough of these people disappointed that people do not know where they are or what they have been fighting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38447	Thank you very much. And the last replica is esteemed Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38448	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, I didn't intend to take your word for it today because I just didn't want to participate in this debate, but you mentioned, you had one question when you said you didn't know why we were dangerous people. You see, me and my brother are both highly educated persons, our father was at war from day one to day last and me and my brother had to look for the first working relationship out of the Republic and my brother was still in Austria while the vast majority of politicians from my neighborhood all his children were arrested right after college by a state firm and I'm going to confirm that now that the campaign with all the lists is going on. However, what made me report here today is this description of us as dangerous people. Let's remember two days ago when I was just here warning about irregular activities in HBOR that everyone jumped and warned me right off this pay phone here to protect Croatian institutions, not to talk about how it works in HBOR and that I have a contract with them. And the truth is I have contracts with them, but here in the assembly, I can say all the irregularities I see and speak them. And that's exactly why they call us dangerous people because we're not afraid to tell the truth, because we're transparent and because unfortunately, few people know how to work with them. But you'll learn, slowly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38449	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38450	Unfortunately, many institutions have become family as well as numerous counties, administrations, agencies, these are family institutions that citizens pay for but for that. When the time comes and the time will come. The fact that a statement about some group of people who thinks they're a dangerous group of people, and here I am looking at you here all our fellow people on television can see what we're a dangerous group of people in. It's a statement that is not remembered at the time of Mao Ce-tung or I don't know which dictators but not from one pro-European diplomat who tries to wrap up his vocabulary, which is why he has a preferential vote of 200 or 150 to 300 to 1000 maximum because he simply tells about people he knows and who he sat with that we're dangerous. I don't know what we're in danger of. Because I didn't, because I was against Sanader or I don't know? Well, this is a democratic society. I don't need people getting along with me. But the fact is that we need to stop this gig, and the most honest thing is to get the people's mandate back. It's not the end of the world, it's not the end of the tourist season because we don't have four ministers right now. We don't have four ministers. I would ask the prime minister if he can bring them to the four ministers, say who the majority are, because we don't know if we have a majority anymore, whether we don't have a majority, we don't know, we don't know who it is, but we will be, we will be soon when the local elections are over as groups and certain parties and from the left, who are called to be left, as they join the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38451	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of a respected representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38452	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you and colleagues for allowing me to speak without distraction. I remember the moment I was lonely. I was the only vote against removing my fellow Saucci's immunity. I remember how much HDZ people enjoyed and talked about in the SDP at the time, and look what kind of people they were with you in the SDP were talking about. You tell us from HDZ, and look what they're like among you. You see, these people wanted to take off Sauch's head, put it on a tree and fly away. Those same people who are holding him as part of their majority today. Do these people love him? Did these people want to save him? These people wanted to destroy him in every sense as a man, a politician, in every sense. And now what's going on? His bloodstains paintedly wanted to do anything to destroy him. And he's now in a paradoxical movie, eventually saving them from HDZ. It's a sad situation, and it's unfortunate what HDZ has built itself up to and how it gets most of it. Finally, it is the Croatian people who will decide in the elections who will lead this country. The first next election is the 21.5th local elections. I call on Croatian citizens not to vote on HDZ because the vote for HDZ is indeed a voice for evil. I don't know how, because what they're doing is not good. I call on the Croatian people to call in what they called "committee" to be done, in fact, with one systematic corruption at all levels of housing at the end. Excuse me, Chairman, is it normal for them to keep talking while I'm talking or can you ask them out until I'm done? If they want to talk, it's not a problem, just go outside and talk. [[/Intruder Reiner: I have repeatedly warned colleagues to let their colleagues speak. And this time, please, let your colleague speak.]] It's not right to talk about me like that. Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Croatia are a huge responsibility on you. And basically, you know what situation you're in? Many of you are in a situation similar to Sauchi. In the situation that if they vote for HDZ for them, certain personal benefits will continue. If you don't vote for HDZ, some things will lose. And now, dear citizens, ask yourselves, you citizens who are corrupt, you who benefit from HDZ, do you think that by continuing such a policy and supporting such a policy in the long run, you and your children will achieve the benefit or benefit? Look at the honourable citizens you support and vote for HDZ where did this party take our country and where does our people lead? He's leading us all to ruin. Dear citizens, you who have been bribed by HDZ, who have been valued, are in this election in a very creepy situation. I'll describe it to you. HDZ led you to not have a job and then HDZ gave you a hand and told you if you were with HDZ we'd give you a job. So, first they lead you to lose your existence, and then they tell you, but if you back us up, you'll get a job. So they create a problem, then they solve it. Typical way the mob works. And another way to say okay. You don't have a job, and you don't have it for our policy, but if you vote for us, we'll give it to you. So they put you in trouble, not just you, but the whole country, and then they blackmail you, they set you up, they tell you if you do, then like this, and if you don't, then like this. Dear citizens, if you vote for HDZ you vote for that blackmail policy, that fear policy and that policy of your own insecurity and uncertainty. If you go to the polls and stand up to HDZ, then you stand up to such a way of managing the country. You stand up to people being treated literally as goods, goods that have their own price. And a slave who doesn't have my own. By voting for HDZ, you agree to the loss of your own dignity, your freedom and your sanity. You put yourself in the service of people who don't care about our country. Forget the stories of patriotism, the fight against corruption, honesty, credibility and some new HDZ. This Plenkovic HDZ is the same one as the HDZ Karamarkov and Kosoric's HDZ and the HDZ of Ivo Sanader, so we don't move on. But that's that HDZ ladies and gentlemen. It is this HDZ, the HDZ that satiates our country and will continue to satiate it, but in order to do so it needs your votes, without your votes HDZ cannot do so. You might be the ones who vote for HDZ to laugh at me and say in your heart that Pernar is a fool who doesn't care what he says I support HDZ. Okay. I'd rather be called a fool, I'd rather be considered a rickshaw, a circuser and a clown than do what you do, raise my hand to the people who lead our people to disappear. I hope the Croatian peoples that you will wake up from hypnosis and realize that with the same lies they have been poisoning you for 25 years and that politics with HDZ at the head has no end, it continues. Dear citizens, I don't know what else to tell you because I know that no matter what I say, 30% will vote for them. And you will find your reason, justification, motive, every man who raises his hand today for HDZ, and not part of HDZ will find an explanation for someone. Some are rational, some are irrational, but it's basically always there, unfortunately, not a struggle for the common good. But the real pressure should not be on MPs who will raise their hands for HDZ today but on voters who will round the HDZ on the day of election 21.5, you must act on them in order to stop this organised violation of all moral and human values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38453	Now, after this election speech, we have several replicas. She is one of Ivan Lovrinović's respected representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38454	Dear colleague Pernar, he would ask you a question, how much is this item on the agenda and all of what is being done in these two days in the interest of Croatian citizens to solve the real problems that you have now mentioned, and how much in the service of politics and local elections ahead? So let's see what's going on here, you're witnesses that I haven't spoken at all today, I don't want to use this for dirty speeches to my colleagues and colleagues here to make cheap points in local elections. But I can't allow other people today who are systematically trying to pet me like Nikola Grumoia, my fellow MP from MOST. What is the use of such communication in the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen? Where did the elemental culture go? But I understand his fear and anxiety, you can see that clearly. But we here as elected MPs must be able to control ourselves, gentlemen. This is what people look at in front of cameras, and I don't want to be involved in this filth. Dear citizens, my attitudes are long gone, you know, I've made them public among the first, very clearly, I won't be a dirty answer to these challenges, I won't be using this, and I might as well as others. I want to contribute with my behaviour to a new culture of dialogue and not to dear colleagues and fellow MPs, to speak over in this case about Grumoja, to make points for myself and for MOST and for my candidate, and on the other hand, I invite you all to one culture of dialogue to be truly worthy of being in this House. What do you think of all this?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38455	Thank you very much. The Honorable Agent Pernar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38456	Thank you, colleague Lovrinović. Unfortunately, it's a paradoxical situation. And why is that? Because the representatives of MOST who have been supporting this policy for the last six months, and we've been telling them all these six months, people are taking this the wrong way, this isn't going anywhere, don't support the introduction of real estate taxes, don't do this to destroy people, don't support VAT hosts to double. Now they supported that policy. And now, they're turning against the ones they've been doing it with. Yes, Mr. Lovrinović, and now they call others, now they say here you are, Professor Lovrinović, you are bad, and we are honest men of great size, etc. However, the representatives of the Most should also wonder, are they really an alternative to HDZ, have they really fought their policy or have they been supportive of it, and perhaps continue to support that they are not close to local elections and have not dropped their rating due to the support of the HDZ. And unfortunately, every time the MOST rating falls the HDZ government and love with the HDZ shoots. But I hope that after these elections, either local or national, we won't say third luck, let's try again, this time it might be better, and that they learned from these two bad marriages not to go the third time. She said in her own time I think Elizabeth Taylor wanted to have a husband and eight children, eventually had eight husbands and one child, and married twice. I hope my colleagues at the Most won't do it for the third time. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38457	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38458	Dear colleague Pernar. Your colleague Lovrinović, across the line, has been answering you to me, no dirty lies about anyone I haven't spread in the House. I was talking about two-thirds of his club and the party he's headed to supporting the government on doesn't support the government. It would be as if Bozo Petrov were against the government and we were all representatives of the Most for the government. It's an unusual situation. What I've been saying since the beginning, means I'm not calling anyone, it's everyone's choice to support, I'm just trying to figure things out. What is necessary is for this Parliament, colleague Pernar, prime minister to come, present four ministers and see if there is a majority of parliament. That's all I insist on. Or the council majority is gone, and then everyone here honestly, as much as anyone may care about positions, sign a motion to disband the Parliament and go to the citizens. It's only fair, I haven't called anyone. So not even a colleague of Lovrinovic, I just realized that two-thirds of his club supports the government and he does not support as mayor of Zagreb. And as for the fellow Sauche you mentioned. I remember when there was a debate here about his immunity, you were the only one fiercely defending him for the first time. You know who attacked you? You were attacked by a colleague named Culey, and they are now part of the ruling majority. I'm a code, I've voted abstentionally for my colleague, Sauche, and I know it's hard for him, and I know he's in a difficult situation, and I don't blame him for this at all, for what's going on, I blame those who pushed him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38459	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac. Excuse the reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38460	I'd like to say, one hypocritical behavior from a colleague who's not here today and yesterday was, her name is Bruno Esich. She was for Maric yesterday and today only for local elections she does not want to come here and vote for Plenkovic, i.e. Jandrokovic, because it would show that she is part of the same team, the same team and that there is no difference between her and those against which she declares. Bruno Esich is a heavy hypocrite. And a heavy hypocrite will be General Glasovic in case he returns to this debate today and says I am raising my voice for Jandrokovic and all the while saying that HDZ and SDP are part of the same team, that HDZ will not solve problems in the country, etc. And another thing, HDZ has promised General Glasnovic that he will handle some pensions, I don't know them, for a billion and a half kuna, as many as he already has. I guarantee he won't because HDZ is a lying party that doesn't keep its promises. Don't hang on, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38461	Comrade Pernar, I beg you kindly, you are crossing the limits of what is decent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38462	Sir, if someone says they'll protect the only real estate from the commission before the election and after the election, they say they won't do it, then he lied. If anyone says I'll give 1,000 euros to every newborn child before the election and after the election he doesn't do it he lied. And fellow Glasnović, Plenkovic would tell you not a billion and a half, but I'll give you 150 billion if I have to, and I'll sign anything like Ivo Sanader, waving the HDZ guarantee card. Don't be naive and trust him, please don't vote for Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38463	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Baunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38464	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Pernar, you're talking about pressures and blackmails. Here yesterday were the lists of candidates for local elections, some of the living-wall candidates first brought out the evidence that they wanted to be in the elections on our lists, but then they pulled them out because their heads from the HDZ line told them if their name won the Live Wall tomorrow they'd be fired. Also, some farmers who have not dared to sign, as there will be subsidies to farmers. We also have situations where individual HDZ employers ask their employees to photograph ballots and bring them and show them who they voted for. These situations happen massively. They are nothing but a copy of what is happening today in the Parliament and what is happening at the very top of the state. The votes, i.e. the normal functioning of the state, getting some material resources, getting a job depends on which party you belong or whether someone in your family can make some sort of material concession to a member or branch of the HDZ. Such a situation is, citizens know it very well, and in fact they are not surprised by all this that has now happened in the Parliament. For this reason, I know that it is okay to be afraid and I know that we are not all brave enough but it is 21.5. Secret elections and it is enough for all citizens to go out to the elections, round up that they are not against such policies and be sure that Croatia can be reborn in just 16 days and this agony has ended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38465	Thank you. Something's going to answer, I don't know what, though, Reverend Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38466	Dear counterpart Bunjac, says the definition, fear is an intense and unpleasant negative feeling that man experiences when he sees or expects danger, whether it is real or unrealistic. Fear arises as a result of observations or expectations of real or imagined dangers or serious threats. It's a congenital, genetically programmed reaction to threatening or painful stimuli. Fear is the primary emotion as well as happiness, sadness, surprise, anger or disgust, which means that different cultures are expressed in the same or similar way, i.e. that expression of fear is not taught. But why am I telling you this? Because HDZ keeps our people in fear and obedience, which is what keeps them in subjection. And dear citizens, if you don't get rid of the fear of HDZ, they will continue to intimidate you and will continue to threaten you and will continue to blackmail you. You have to wonder if you want this agony to continue? Do you want to be threatened in four years if you don't vote for HDZ, you'll be out of a job, you'll be threatened in four years if you're never going to get a job, etc. etc. They blackmail and threaten people. It's their policy. Mr. Bunjac, I remember when you told them that their program was sausages and beer. It's just part of the program. The other part of the pre-election program is threats, blackmails, and promises, often false promises that one will receive, what benefits in case he gives them a voice. I call on citizens to oppose such a policy in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38467	Thank you. Now we've heard what fear means on Wikipedia. My colleague Pernar also checked in in five minutes. Apparently there's a lot more wisdom for us to say, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38468	Dear citizens, today when the new President of Parliament is voted on, you will testify to one civilizational disgrace because the majority who votes it is not the majority who does it by their conscience but the majority of what motives it is and which is not the democratic majority, which has no legitimacy to do so, which was not elected to the Assembly by individual MPs to do so. If you go to the polls and vote for HDZ in 21.5. you will essentially support such a policy, you will support such a way of leading the state. And if you vote for such a policy in the local elections, you will also testify to such a policy in the local government. This is a creepy policy, this is a twilight. The dusk saga is zero compared to this twilight that HDZ prepares and leads the entire country. There are people here who think for themselves. I've witnessed this a lot. Among them, one of the main ones I appreciated until yesterday was General Glasovic because he always said what he meant. And I remember when Minister Maric was voted he could raise his hand and say I'm for Maric and show that HDZ has the majority, that it has 76 hands. But his conscience didn't give him that. He said yesterday, I won't be your useful fool, I won't participate in that circus you're working on. However, already today General Glasovic is sitting here, not rising, and I'm afraid he won't rise. I'm afraid that when those keys come on, the famous ones, that is, when President Reiner says, I ask the MPs to approach the vote to have his hand fly into the green light, to say yes, I am for Mr. Jandrokovic. Well, here's the thing. I'm appealing to his conscience. Mr. Glasnović will enter history as a man who showed his attitude, who hit the table with his fist and said no more communists will be comforted by the rule of Croatia. But if you press the green light, you'll be the same ones you've been talking against for the past six months, like in Orwell's Animal Farm. You read that book. Anything you say will turn out the other way. Mr. Saucha, I'm talking to you too. Those who set you up with this process and set you up with all this, and they're no better than you, I'd dare say they're a hundred times worse than you, you'll support them if you give them the green light. Them, you'll support that policy. Mr. Glasnović and Saucha, you have the opportunity, this is a historic moment you can tell HDZ's blackmails, threats, bribery has come to an end. You have that chance. You have that chance, gentlemen. That's enough of that kind of policy, where you've been pushing people against the wall and forcing them to do whatever they want. Show them your attitude. Because this mandate is fleeting. He'll be gone in no later than four years, but what do you have left after him? You'll have to live your whole life with your decision that you made today. All my life, Mr. Sauch. You will have your children, and one will tell your children you are from Tomislav Saucha. That's what Mr. Saucha will tell you, yes. And you have a chance to say I stood up to that tyranny, I rose against it. I didn't agree to blackmail and pressure. And Mr. Glasnović and you can do it, you can rebel against this farce, you can say I won't be a useful fool of HDZ. And not the HDZ fought for by Dr. Franjo Tudjman, but the HDZ created by the UDBA-shi, OZNA-shi and KOS's who took over HDZ, which Croatia is only in the pocket and not in the heart. You have a chance to do this, Mr. Glasnović. Breaking up with this communist legacy and sending them to the castle of history along with their Plenkovic, who said that mass media is the easiest way to control public opinion and form power. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38469	If someone didn't hear correctly, maybe they could twist it. But we have one replica as far as I think it is, the esteemed representative of Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38470	Mr. Pernar, this morning I told Mr. Maras who is not here to speak the parrot best without the worst flying. This way I don't need a conscience counselor, I'm his conscience when I got here in '92. The year I led three choir areas of HVO, two guard brigades, I have a moral responsibility to those people, whatever you think. But if God didn't give you young anarchists who didn't understand anything, you'd say a lot here, and I'd never heard you speak out of your mouth to talk about confination here, what houses you live in, I don't know about your parents. You didn't talk about mass murders hundreds of thousands of killed, aristocid, a democracy, when you ever got up and said that BiH Croats were third grade, that they were discriminated against in this country? I've never heard it from your mouth, that's not what you're interested in. You're interested in play, showtime, Las Vegas, it's not real life. Your mother never called the soldier who died and told you Mr. Pernar my son was killed under your command come sleep in his bed and see how he feels. You didn't lead the men in battle. You are not aware of what the Croats from BiH have given, there are many of these salon strategies, and that God gives you, that God enlightens your mind to build a fair national and morally correct state. But there are some decisions you've never made and this is one of those decisions, one of them was '92. My conscience is clean, and I would not like you to mention it to Mr. A younger Mrs. Bruno Esich who has a heart and tears in her eye when it comes to the Croatian people. You don't have it. All you have is a spike and a performance because you don't feel it in your heart, you don't have a soul, you only have a mind and a speed. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38471	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38472	Mr. Glasnović, did you hear who's clapping on you now? You've been applauded by the people of the Communist alliance who have ruined our country, and now they're in HDZ, they've clapped at you, Mr. Glasnović. Here's another thing, do you really think the HDZ government will pay your vote a billion and a half kuna? Well, people sell in this House for change, and you sell for a billion and a half kuna. Mr. Glasnović, you're naive because you think your voice is worth so much, you're just expendable goods for them and the moment they buy someone else for a less price than you'd vote for, they'll tell you Mr. Glasnović we don't need you anymore, that's what Mr. Glasnović will tell you. And believe me, HDZ will let you down, they'll cheat on you because if they cared about getting rid of these people's pensions, they'd already get rid of them, but they're not and they're not. Mr. Glasnović, I warn you that you support a system of governance that is corrupt in which private interests are in front of the public and that leads the whole country to ruin, and you will explain that you are doing it for some good for some people, etc. But believe me, HDZ will let you down and deceive you because they've been making false promises to the Croatian people for the last 25 years, so they haven't been in this story since yesterday, so they're as professional as there are professional connoisseurs, so there are also professional pre-election liars and pre-election manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38473	Thank you very much. The next is final on behalf of the SDP club will speak to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38474	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, because of the record, when I raised my voice, it was because of a reaction from the club of MPs, and not because of other MPs, so I would ask that it be introduced into, but we settled it later. So, the parliamentary majority that will elect the president of the parliament consists of representatives of 18 political groups, 18 of which 56 HDZ deputies, the second largest junior partner in the ruling SDSS coalition with 3 MPs, 2 MPs have HDS and 15 individuals of which are 6 party and 9 non-party, that is, the ruling coalition will not list them. So we can freely call them the socialist alliance of the working people, from right, to left, from right wing of UDBA, that one representative to those who might be in his qualifications is the left wing, and that is the ruling majority that depends on each of those 76 votes. How this ruling majority will solve problems in society, how it will work, how it will make decisions alive and see. As I bring the speech to the end, the club of SDP representatives will slowly leave the hall, of course we want a lot of success in the work of the new president of the Croatian Parliament, to whom we can only order, Gordane to endure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38475	Thank you. We have one final word, and that is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38476	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, let me put the closing word out in these few minutes, because in these two days, I've really spoken the least. Here today, in these two days, everyone has shown their character and has shown their intentions. And I'm glad that all of this is seen by Croatian citizens. I repeat once again that here is the least talked about the real problems of Croatian society and the economy, cheap points were made, hitting under the belt, but I am sure the public understands it well and sees it. This, my dear citizens, is not an exaggeration. One oatmeal. But how do you get out of the pot? Character, parts and knowledge first of all. Seems like all of this is missing here. And once again, I did not support Maric or Petrov or Jandrokovic. As you can see, the council has moved on, moving on, driving on. Everyone will be honored. From who? From the citizens, that's right, in the elections when they come. What have I been looking for these past weeks and months? What was I looking for? I searched and tried to solve the problems blocked and they know it. I have offered concrete proposals on how to save billions of kunas by refinanceing government debts and solving these problems. How about 50 thousand blocked with a debt of up to 2000 kuna, which is 100 million kuna only by refinanced by a government bond, but you see that didn't get to the ears. I asked for the new Executive Law to be passed, that is, to accept Slovenia, he is the best, they have received the prize. I selflessly handed over three months ago, you see, a proposal for a brand-new CNB Act, brand-new, handed it over to MOST because they were in power. I didn't ask for it at all, the MOSTs know that if I'm not to be mentioned because the expert group that did it, so we'd be happy and proud to solve these problems it's been three months, no one's invited me to talk and the thing's gone. And today some people call me mud about it. Let the mud show their cheeks. I won't answer those attacks unculturally, I won't respond primitively, I won't respond, I won't hit under the belt, I've suffered a lot of things in my life. This city of Zagreb where we are, this is a city of culture, this is a city of cultural people, here all those who are different, especially in the Assembly show that they are no match for the place they came to. What do you say in the end? Gentlemen, over the past few months you've adopted, you who are in power still, real estate tax, citizens will pay a more expensive real estate tax, a hit on the pocket. Who gave you the mandate to raise prices in this poor woman and in this trouble, taxes on what our people have earned and invested their whole lives? She collected electricity, gas, tolls, is that the result of your work? That's ours for real. I'm asked by an old lady on the tram the other day, it was very, very, very shaken, when you're going to help us get my grandchildren back from abroad. I didn't know what to answer by knowing what questions people are dealing with here. In the end, I will fight with dignity for everything I have promised, culturally communicate because I have promised it to the citizens who have chosen me and I ask you all to keep one level of culture and communication in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38477	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38478	Dear colleague Lovrinović, I see that all those whose names are mentioned have a great need to justify themselves. No one here in the assembly, at least I haven't called in any way inappropriate. I've only found out the fact, and that fact is that you're the party president and president of a club whose two-thirds of the MPs support the government and you don't support it. It personally seems like a game to me because you are in a campaign for local elections in Zagreb. And I have a right to say it. I didn't disrespect you in any way. On the other hand, when you talk about legal proposals, yesterday we had three legislative proposals here in Parliament. After nine amendments to the government that I didn't want to agree to, but to three because those three don't change the important spirit of the law, the Archive Act is passed, we have six months to hand over the material. The Ministry of Culture is preparing a new law that will close the archives and see if any new parliamentary majority will bring it. That's why this one probably passed, and then the goal is to bring in some new one within the last six months. But yesterday there was a vote on the CNB Act, you made that proposal, but that proposal couldn't even go through. The government has said all along, it will pass this proposal by MOST, where the revision will enter the CNB. And what's going on? The government does not give a positive opinion, HDZ deputies vote to protect who they are. Is that protecting Governor Vujcic? Is that protecting all those involved in the Agrokor affair? I expected you to support this bill. I understand yesterday was a turbulence. And me, so you voted the bill wouldn't have passed, but I'd love to. that you were with us in the same number. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38479	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38480	Dear comrade Grmoya, you think the people are short-minded. Do you remember a year and something when I was in this assembly, when you brought from the Oreshkovic parachute and when you were the economic programme that I brought, when he hesitated to the inrecognizableness of the time you didn't object, and then I was the only one who voted against such a government and such a prime minister. Then you had nothing to say. You're accusing me today that the same law, you see what it is I've given you, you've brought it down, I'm sorry that I didn't bring the scissors to cut off two lines, three articles. You're accusing me, instead of your coalition partner instead of the CNB instead of the DORH, of being an obstacle to you today. How can people choose wrong targets? But since you're already talking about here and how you're going to be counting on making whatever it is in this dirty game, and I'm going to stay with a decent peace of mind, you're honoring me that 2/3 of my club voted differently. Mr. Grmoja, in the club Change Croatia there is an independent representative. He is not a member of the party Let's change Croatia. You deliberately manipulate the public. You didn't explain that. What do you need? Well, you're a very good machine gun, you don't need to, why you still pick these targets. On the other hand, when I was the only one who didn't support Prime Minister Oreshkovic so why didn't you kick me out of the club while I was there, and now you're asking me to do something else. I am a Democrats, I expect this House to be a Parliament of Independent, Thinking People, not a party or sectarian like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38481	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38482	Representative Lovrinović, you mentioned the representatives of MOST and your initiative around the Croatian National Bank I respected all the time, even disbanding this assembly and I went one step further, so in 21.4.2017 I filed a criminal complaint against Boris Vujčić and his deputy and six other vice governors on the basis of the crime he allowed in Agrokor to happen. So 10 billion kunas without bonds, the bonds he used without cover. So monetary and financial instability is... which is his obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also raised the same day against HANFA because of it, i.e. due to also the damage done by the Republic of Croatia due to financial instability because they did not control the financial system, but have endangered the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia. And now all of a sudden we're all the evil that's happened to the 12 of us here. Well, you agree with Mr. Jandrokovic here, you and your colleague that we are men of dangerous intent. Are we really people of dangerous intent? To fight these criminals who protect him. This was a crime. Ten billion kunas to Todorovic were given without cover, 10 billion kunas without cover. I gave you a criminal report, I gave it to you, and I copied it for you to see, study, and you see that we weren't just talking. We gave, here I ask DORH, I ask Dinko Cwitan, here I raise all criminal charges registered officially to the County Attorney's Office and to the State's Attorney's Office of Cwitan. And you can't! This is where crime is protected and we fight crime. Where did the former governor end up? In Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38483	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38484	Dear fellow Bull, I know you're one of the few people who doesn't speak with premeditation. You say what you think and I appreciate it. But look, please, and I know about your criminal record, you showed. But look, please. If you're talking about bonds without cover, about Agrokor and everything and how it can be reported in the morning, I don't mean you now, you did it later, and you voted for Lex Agrokor this afternoon. I don't get it. That's not clear, for example. I agree with you that the only institution that hasn't even been opened to enter is the CNB. And now a consensus of HDZ and SDP was made yesterday at that vote. And instead of representing Grmoy attacking the consensus where they are both guarding the institution, he found Lovrinovic attacking who wrote the law, wanted to help and indeed "help the poor with his shame". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38485	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. I'm voting on the next decision. For the president, and good. Let's check the quorum. Please engage. We have 78 present, therefore the quorum is present. And I'm voting on the next decision. Gordan Jandrokovic is elected president of the Croatian Parliament. Please engage. Let's vote. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. 76... for, no one abstentioned and 13 against. [[Applause.]] I find that most of the votes Gordan Jandrokovic, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, has been elected president of the Croatian Parliament. I congratulate the new president and wish him success in carrying out this honorable and responsible duty and invite him to address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38486	Honorable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. First of all, I'd like to thank you for your trust. After today's debate, it is not easy, but I would like to thank everyone and those who were in favour and those who were against and those who left the assembly when voting on the election of a new President of Parliament. For me, this is a great honor and responsibility especially in a time of complex circumstances that require prudence, calmness, seriousness and responsibility. The election of the president of the Croatian Parliament created conditions for the continuity of the work of this House, which has always been the central place of Croatian statehood, political stability and democratic legitimacy of elected MPs and MPs. This is the first step and then I expect that immediately after the local elections have ended, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia will, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, propose to the Croatian Parliament and the new ministers. This will create conditions for an even stronger continuation of work to meet the main objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, I pledge today's election to work as the first amongst the same to preserve fundamental constitutional values, political pluralism, the rule of law, the protection of human and minority rights, as well as mutual respect and ethics in conduct. After 27 years of independent democratic Croatia, after winning the Homeland War and international affirmation through the entry into the EU and NATO, recalling the works of the first Croatian president Dr. Franjo Tuđman and Croatian defenders, today we face new challenges. In significantly altered international and security circumstances, political stability and strengthening state institutions, economic growth and development and strengthening social solidarity are the main objectives of today's Croatia. I am particularly stressing the political stability and strength of Croatian state institutions once more. I urge you to gather around these goals, I call you once again to responsibility, to mutual respect and tolerance, to accept differences, to avoid offensive speech and personal as well as any other intolerance. I call upon you first of all to be correct to each other, to be correct men. This will send the best message to the public and to all Croatian people. Thank you again for your trust. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38487	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38488	We move to the next item of the agenda, we have to do it, that is: - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. The material has been delivered to you on benches and I am voting on the following decision: "Goldan Jandroković is resolved as Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament", but here on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club before the vote, the distinguished colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38489	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, on behalf of the SDP club, I congratulate the President of the Croatian Parliament on the election, although we did not participate in his election, we will participate but now in his resolution. I also expect the president of the Croatian Parliament and the president of the Club of Representatives of the largest parliamentary party to agree on a new configuration of parliamentary committees, parliamentary leadership in line with the new situation as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-05-0.u38490	Thank you very much. I will now put to the vote the decision that Gordan Jandrokovic is relieved of the duties of Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Please engage and vote. I find that most of the votes have been made a proposed decision, 85 for and 1 abstention. Before the session ends today I have one notice, we ask the representatives and representatives to remove their belongings from the benches in order to hold the 5th simulated session of the Croatian Assembly for High School Students on Monday 15 May. I thank you for that. And finally, I only ask you before I conclude the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament, we have local elections ahead of us, I urge you once again to behave in them with honor and dignity by respecting political rivals and various political opinions, and I ask you that as I said in the opening speech it is indeed so. Dear MPs and MPs, I conclude the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament. Thanks again. Session closed at 5:11 p.m.
