ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24473	Good morning. We can start with today's work. I can see your hands up. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24474	The respected SDP vice president would ask a ten-minute break in business to discuss a scandal that took place in Sibenik about taking down Anna Frank's exhibition at the Technical School in Sibenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24475	Okay. Thank you very much. I know you have a press conference about it, but good. Here you are, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24476	Dear Vice President, I call for a break on behalf of the MOST Club All right, all right. [[Intruder Reiner: You can't call a break, but you're looking for a break.]] So I'll speak in a telecommunication monopoly and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24477	Okay, thank you. Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24478	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break to warn of problems in the healthcare system especially related to family doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24479	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petin is about family doctors. Anyone else? No, I don't. That'll be it, then I'll see you at 9.45. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24481	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it has been less than 24 hours since the opening, until the closing of the international exhibition on Anna Frank at the Technical School in Sibenik. The reason is that the principal of the school of a certain Josip Belimarić is opposed to the world-renowned story of the death of a Jewish girl who was liquidated in the Nazi camp Bergen Belsen, parts of the victims of children in the Quislin NDH. It's an international exhibition by Anna Frank about the present that shows the life and tragedy of little Anna and her family during World War II. The exhibition has been in 40 countries so far. Guesting in Croatia is the result of the collaboration of the house Ana Frank from Amsterdam and the Croatian educational and development network for the evolution of the agreement from Zagreb. The exhibition is conceived in Croatia as well as in all other countries from two parts. The first part is the European part, and the second part is the holocaust on the territory of the country in which the exhibition is being held. The Croatian part of the exhibition is impressive, summed up, very shaken without ideological colour and political instrumentalisation. Among other things, the death of Jews in NDH through the fates of Lee Deutsch, Private Shterka and Otto... The author of Croatian part of the exhibition historian Miljenko Hajdarovic has also shown recent wars in these areas, as well as the Homeland War, primarily through child casualties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the director of Belamarić was disturbed by the six Croatian panorams, he was bothered by the fact that the Ustashas were depicted as butchers and as those who killed children by starving. So far, there have been no problems in other Croatian cities. In three years, the exhibition was held in 23 cities in various public spaces, museums, galleries, primary and secondary schools and universities. The author of the Croatian part of the exhibition Miljenko Hajdarovic does not see anything controversial. The theme is the suffering of children, and the cause of Anna Frank's fate as symbols of the unprecedented genocide. It bothered the director, which was not shown in the naked island, the naked island. But they couldn't explain to a man that the topic of the exhibition was not informative, but a holocaust. And man obviously doesn't have the congestive ability to understand something like that. And shame was made. We've been disgraced in front of the world again. Downloading an exhibition about Anna Frank in a school in Croatia is embarrassing. The SDP expects the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to hold an emergency session on this subject and to propose a plenary session of the agenda so that all clubs and MPs can make this clear. We expect the Prime Minister to send a letter of apology to the organizer because the organiser deserves it. We might expect the President of the Republic to send such an apology to the World Jewish Congress, but she is now too busy to handle her trip to the United States, so she may not be able to do so. But we are asking Minister Barisic to initiate a procedure for the removal of this director, because he deserves nothing to be the director. If Minister Barisic does not know how to initiate the procedure to copy him from some previous proceedings, he obviously knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24482	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of Nikola Grmoje will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24483	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In early December, I asked for a break to discuss key problems in the Republic of Croatia, and I announced that I would talk about it all the time and that I would not stop until these same problems were solved. I spoke last time about the strong support that illegal decisions, which offend and common sense in one particular case, give the case to domestic courts a large telecommunications company. Namely, domestic courts declare relevant regulations governing competition in telecommunications, imagine completely non-binding for the mentioned large company in foreign ownership. At the time, I said it was as if the decisions of domestic courts for a foreign carrier did not apply to the rule of driving on the right side of domestic roads. I've never seen such a clear trail of influence and protection mentioned by the telecom company by the domestic legal system and at the expense of the law, the competition and general legal certainty. Some of the figures in public documentation that I mentioned at the time in a US verdict against international telecommunications companies present and with us, organised by corruption in our neighbouring countries, say that for one million private use the organiser of corruption on the side of the state by high treason and violation of the laws, the organiser of corruption by international groups must ensure the benefit of about 100 to 500 million states of course. And if only 100m euros are created from the state, for example, it can be calculated how many lives would have been saved for that amount if it hadn't been stolen from the state budget. I think that all of you, and that's not how I intend to sit in this House to say something in some of our neighborhoods. I invite you not to sit down, especially I call on all state institutions, and especially those in the judiciary in the courts, the state's attorney's office and the security intelligence community. Now, two questions from telecommunications. It is known that these days a large telecommunications company has bought its mother's foreign bonds and announced that it will soon buy more of them. A few days ago, she announced that for not a small amount she was buying from a sister-in-law a leading telecom in a neighbouring country that was accidentally affected by these corruption activities mentioned in this report in the United States in all of these days has gone from the Republic of Croatia or will leave about three billion kuna. That's exactly the amount the last report reported was on the account of a large company. Is that the answer to my announcement that the state needs to build a optical network means that it owns money from European funds? Is this a message that the Republic of Croatia has to invest how it fits this big company or they're not going to invest at all? Huge money from all shareholders, majority shareholders, and even Croatian defenders and citizens have gone out of the country and will obviously invest elsewhere, not in the Republic of Croatia. HT does not enter the optics with the necessary intensity as the numbers testify... /The speaker speaks English./... connections in the last three years. Instead of investing in RH HT recent moves i.e. By buying Deutsche Telekom and Montenegrin telecom bonds of 250m euros, it shows a direction that is not an emphasis on building a new optical network. Instead, HT is working on further exploitation long ago from the amortised copper network, whose use prices for recent HACOM decisions have increased all with the aim of further weakening operators using the HT copper network. Decisions are explained by encouraging HT investment in the copper network. On the contrary, such decisions encourage operators to leave the market. The second issue in telecommunications means the state bank of HPB as the majority owner of the only remaining alternative telecom plans to vote these days on very controversial decisions to join the operator to another operator already under the rule of a large foreign telecommunications company. I do not believe that the Minister of State Property knows what is going on and what the administration of the state bank of HPB is intending to do, in which the SDP administration is still in place, I do not believe that Minister Maric is aware of it, or I do not want to believe it. I also refer this question to the state's attorney. Dinko Cvitano if this concentration transaction is approved means Optima, H1, HT, HT will have 80% of the market where operators... /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[/Intruder Reiner: Time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24484	Thank you. Now I'd like to give my word on behalf of the HSS Club to the distinguished representative of Ani-Marija Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24485	Thank you, dear Vice President. So today I would like to warn the public of the growing problem that is present in Croatia, and this is the lack of a doctor especially specialised in primary health care in local environments. Currently, we have only 2,300 family doctors in Croatia with an average age of 55, and it is estimated that in the next four years a large number will retire, and less than 800 doctors will appear. Although we already have a double number of family doctors per 100,000 inhabitants now than the EU does, making us fat under the European average. This is just one example of the complete collapse of the health care system, and the alarming and dramatic situation has been warned for some time by various associations of primary healthcare doctors. I come from a rural environment and doctors report to me daily and describe impossible working conditions that include a large number of patients, largely older patients, poor diagnostics, a great distance to the first hospital with no traffic connections, small wages, inability to advance. It should be noted that family doctors in rural areas rarely go on vacations, sick leave, or God forbid specialization because in that case there is no one to change them. In my neighborhood, the doctor retired six years ago and came back after two days because she simply couldn't let her inhabitants run out of health care. I don't have to mention that the doctor is still working. We also have a situation in the town of Orahovica that we have only one doctor left while others come for a replacement, and citizens never know who the other doctor is, who they should contact at what time of work at which office. I don't have to mention how important it is that citizens have their own doctor who knows their problems, not that doctors are constantly changing. I want to get you all involved in this problem from this pay phone. Please, let's all activate ourselves together on this problem. Croatia is not only Zagreb where everything is available. Unfortunately, small places die, people move out, the services shut down, and so every day. The health ministry obviously has no solution to the lack of a doctor or do not understand this situation in small places, so I hope that local self-government will be involved in this problem because they are the only ones left. I call once again on all the mayors and mayors who are sitting in the assembly benches, to make a serious commitment to this problem. Local self-government should increase scholarships for medical students and encourage them to return home through various stimulations. We must all work together to address this problem because health, i.e. access to health services, is a fundamental human right and must be equally accessible to all our citizens in all parts of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u24486	Thank you very much. With that, we've exhausted the theme for the break. So we shall move on to what is the first item of the agenda today, and that is: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I suggest we have three cases, so I suggest we have a united discussion about it. Of course they'll vote separately it's quite clear for each of them. If you're okay with the time savings. Here's what I think everyone agrees, so I'm going to ask the president of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Žarko Tušek to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29170	Here's a thank you, dear Vice President. I would still read each report individually and then discuss it. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 11th session held on 17 January 2017 the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Tomislav Karamark to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against God Petrov, representative of the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Bozo Petrov is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be unanimous with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following decision: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against the representatives of God Petrov shall be denied, at the request of the attorney-in-law Tomislav Karamark, following a complaint filed on 16 September 2016 to the municipal court in Zadar for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. So, in the case of private prosecutors, the Commission will continue to propose to the Croatian Parliament to deny the authorisation to launch or conduct the procedure. It is our view that the Institute of Immunity is established in order to protect the integrity of the duties of MPs and not to protect MPs as individuals. It is also important to say that the criminal proceedings can be initiated and managed after the end of the term of office, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. And here's to the report for Representative Mira Bulj. So also the Mandate-Immunity Commission at the session, our 11th session held on 17 January 2017, the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Tomislav Karamark to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mira Bulja, representative of the Croatian Parliament for the crime of slander referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Miro Bulj is also the 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 6 for and 1 against the Croatian Parliament proposes that the following decision be taken by the Croatian Parliament: That, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Mira Bulj at the request of the attorney-in-law Tomislav Karamark, under a complaint filed on 16 September 2016 also to the Municipal Court in Zadar for the criminal offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. The explanation is the same as in the first case. Thank you very much. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 10th session held on 15 December 2016 the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Staniša Zarkovic from Virovitica and Nenad Vlahovic from Gareshnica sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against the professor of science, Milorad Pupovac, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the crime of libel referred to in Article 149(1). Penalty law. Professor of Science Milorad Pupovac is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Assembly and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. However, when the Croatian Parliament is not together on the right of immunity, it decides the Mandate-Immunity Commission by having its decision subsequently confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 76(5) of the basic Article. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 27(1) and 116 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have unanimously reached a decision during the term of the parliamentary term of office to initiate the criminal proceedings against the representative of the professor of science, Milorad Pupovac, at the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Staniša Zarkovic of Virovitica and Nenad Vlahovic of Gareshnica, on the suit filed by the Municipal Court in Osijek for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1). Penalty law. And that's it, the explanation is the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29171	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and open the debate. The debate was first reported by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, on behalf of the SDP club, who will share the time with Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29172	It's about unification. Dear colleagues and colleagues first when explaining the reason why the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposed not to remove the immunity of two of the three MPs we have also called for practice so far. But the Mandatory has not fully called for practice so far. The practice so far has been to remove immunity for the state's attorney's proposal, and not to remove immunity for private prosecutors unless the one requested for the removal of immunity has been declared a criminal organisation by HDZ, then immunity is removed. This happened to Željko Jovanovic in 2011. We now have a milder form of declaring not a party but a leadership or then party president in this way, and we are in a dilemma whether we will join the practice so far in extensive or in this mild interpretation and help colleagues from HDZ to continue what they did in 2011, let's say, for example, by colleagues Željko Jovanovic. So this is one temptation that we have resisted, although we think that this trial, on the one hand, would be found by the former HDZ president, and on the other hand by the President of the Parliament and one of the most active parliamentary representatives from the ruling coalition, would indeed be a spectacle. And I think the Croatian public would enjoy hearing the arguments of both sides in that trial that might happen if the Croatian Parliament removed the immunity of counterparts Petrov and colleagues to Bulju. However, something else is also important to note. There is talk of something said in the campaign, politicians must, of course, be prepared to hear a little more at their expense, but politicians must also be aware of the responsibility for the spoken word. When something is said in a pre-election campaign, it is usually said in the campaign, so a little tension comes down after the campaign. However, after this request came public, one of the two colleagues did not lower tensions but went further to increase public tensions. So now we're talking about something that is the mode of political action of one of the MPs, it's also a legitimate choice, but that's why they have to bear the consequences, and they have to be willing to deal with how they do their political activity and when they cross that red line that politicians are certainly allowed to do so, but they have to be willing to take a counter-attack, or to face what they said in court if they're not willing to apologize to whoever they said it to. We are prepared, of course, to consider the request of colleagues if they themselves would like to be removed from their immunity and would not want to further complicate these matters. From this pay phone, of course, we can invite politicians who are acting in charge or who want to be held accountable once, to call their political rivals in a way that will not be able to end up in court. If they lose their word, let them be willing to take a step back or indeed face such charges before the court. I must say that I was really in a dilemma about how to vote on this request regarding my colleagues Bulja, but in order not to overcomplicate, we will continue with our practice so far, which is that for private lawsuits we will not remove immunity, although we do not support this way of communication with each other because as far as Mr Karamark is concerned, we cannot say that he was the most popular HDZ politician among us and that we have saved him something excessively. Between us, among us, among the SDPs. HDZ amongst SDPs and cannot be said to have oversaved him in public appearances, but apparently no one has built such a foul to deserve a slander suit from him, which his coalition partners and those with whom he is in the coalition today have succeeded today, and that is his party, of course, he is still a member. Therefore, if the HDZ colleagues do not want to protect the former president in this way, we will not push too much to do so. This will obviously be one story about the relations between MOST and HDZ and INA and will now continue with counterpart Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29173	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Otherwise, this debate took place quite intensively on the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I am not a supporter of those who say this is a matter of technique because this particular point today is a deep matter of politics and things how our country works. So that's not where the people who are in the opposition who chose it because maybe it's a figure of style in the Parliament, it'll be easier to get into the media, that's where the people who run our country are accused. Otherwise, HDZ's inconsistency, which is what we're used to, so there's no need to wonder why they vote one way for Jovanovic, and now they're going to vote another way. This is something that the Croatian public has become used to, that they are being accused of crime we are also used to because we have dozens of likely prominent HDZs who have been accused of the worst possible corruption and crime for the past ten years, but what we are not used to is that the whole government, the whole functioning of the state is essentially being questioned because of the relationship of two partners because one partner who is obviously bigger in the coalition has his own agenda, which he has spent the last 15, 20 years and continues to work in this way and another partner who is trying to be in power, and basically in the head is in opposition. So on the one hand, when they're attracted to the authorities and in some way they consume that power most often it's about staff issues, etc., and on the other hand when it's critical to talk because, of course, everyone in Croatia sees that it's not good what HDZ does then they appear and they're very active and then we're very often confused by listening to a colleague of Bula what he's saying and why he's been saying the same thing for a year and he's not doing anything and nothing de facto is happening, meaning specifically in the government. And what are the problems? And our citizens here are probably wondering why things don't work out about INA, which is why Prime Minister Plenkovic doesn't know what he's going to answer yesterday and what he's going to do about INA? So you see the paradoxical situation, he recognizes that Minister Dalic is in conflict of interest and does not put in the Committee for Conflict of Interest...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29174	A colleague of Maras, INA and a conflict of interest have nothing to do with this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29175	Absolutely they do, Mr. Reiner, because they absolutely do because of these things that happen here and the lawsuits that HDZ's one initiated against Mr. Petrov and his colleagues from MOST, these things happen. I have to tell the Croatian citizens. So because Mr. Petrov and most of the people at the Most say these things, the president of the HDZ has been removed because he was caught in criminal activities. HDZ president, their coalition partner with whom they are now in the coalition, have been replaced because he was caught in corruption operations. As a result, yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic does not know what to do and appoints a commission, otherwise it is the usual practice of this government, when a problem has been appointed by the commission and does nothing, he appoints a commission where the person to whom he has been called is not in the process. So he recognizes her conflict of interest, he's afraid he won't experience the attack because he didn't communicate with his colleagues at MOST so that maybe Mr. Petrov won't attack him tomorrow as he attacked the previous HDZ president and things don't work. Same thing about tax reform, same thing about selling HEP. So Prime Minister Plenkovic is afraid that Mr Petrov will not call him president of the HDZ...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29176	Comrade Maras, please stick to the subject. This isn't a topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29177	I stick to the subject all the time, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29178	No, don't stick to the subject at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29179	I stick with the whole time, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29180	Comrade Pernar, please don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29181	So Mr. Plenkovic fears that Mr. Petrov does not accuse him, as he accused the previous HDZ president of being removed because he has been caught in corruption and criminal activities and can't make it, so these key decisions that Prime Minister Plenkovic must make are paralysed because there is no genuine co-operation, because there is only the issue of immediate benefits because they are both in power. And that's what I want to tell you. It is very important for Croatian citizens to hear that this government is not working because of the enormous mutual mistrust, because of the reservations that I absolutely think are justified by the Most marked by HDZ's actions for the last 10, 15 years and I would be, not worried but I think that such cooperation would be impossible. But that's why the state can't take it, that's why Prime Minister Plenkovic can't know what to do about INA, what to do about HEP, what to do about the waste management plan, what to do about competitions for public companies...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29182	Comrade Maras, I am reminding you again now, not the subject of either the prime minister or the minister, we have very clearly defined problems and clear persons here to discuss whether immunity will be removed or not. I'm asking you nicely to stick to the subject without using it for what bothered me a little bit because I just heard the word spectacle. I know some people want to make a spectacle out of this assembly, but don't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29183	Mr. Vice President, I can't discuss what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29184	You don't need to, but stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29185	I can't discuss what you're going to write to me and I can read it there. I have to say this is a first-class political scandal that two partners are being accused of crime and leading the state. It's a first-class political scandal. And that's why the RS decision was blocked, which is why Prime Minister Plenkovic doesn't know what to do about the INA or the HEP, or about the waste management plan, or about many other things, and citizens need to hear it. Well, Mr. Vice President of the Most or I don't know if the president or when you have the election, so he'll be the president of the Most Mr. Petrov, the president of the Croatian Parliament said that he was removed because he was caught in criminal activities. So what is not a topic that Croatian citizens must generally ask themselves why MOST and HDZ and how can they co-operate in general? How is that possible when so much is a dose of mistrust and inability to cooperate? And on that side, we don't need to be surprised at all, it's going to happen in the next period. We'll listen to Bulja for four years here saying they're all the same and nothing's going to change, the things that are crucial will be blocked, the Prime Minister will have a reserve on what to do in the future because there's no support because this government doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29186	My fellow I now warn you, please stick to the subject. The topic is not the Prime Minister, we know exactly who the subject is and please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29187	I stick to the subject all the time. I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, I don't mean to argue with you here, I just want to that Croatian citizens know that this authority is not designed to make them better, that it will work rather than it is made up of partial and petty interests and it will continue to function and will be inefficient and is now the most inefficient government in the Republic of Croatia. [[You can't even do that.]] Because if the Prime Minister gets lost around the INA yesterday because of his mistrust, because of a coalition partner's mistrust means we're going to keep paying that price. And this is not a purely technical question, and this is what our people need to hear about. And why, for example, the HDZ colleagues insist until yesterday, I would say the accepted, promised president of his party who won over 90 thousand votes on an internal party without any, here I bet that in no replica that I will receive today there will be no defence of former HDZ President Karamark. Until six months ago, everyone was clapping at him, experiencing emotional emotions when he entered the hall, and today everyone is going to be fenced and tell me what Maras even mentioned Karamark? Why does he mention Karamark? So I mention it because I am the president of the Assembly of your prominent member, not only him and Jozo Petrovic is still a prominent member of the HDZ. What do you think he has nothing to do with INA right now, that he doesn't get involved at all, that he doesn't care, that he doesn't earn his money as a consultant? So can anyone be naive that it all changed in the HDZ in two months and that those who had ties to the INA until two months ago and that those who had ties to the INA by two months had no more. Please, Croatian people, Croatian citizens must be aware that the same policy continues, which is why the former government has fallen, only the problems will be bigger and bigger, only it will be more inefficient and inefficient. And for this reason, I will vote, or the club of representatives, as Arsen said, has its own position, which is a question of practice so far, although it is definitely out of practice here so far that because of this case and this operation of coalition partners, the functioning of our country is compromised as much as we laugh at colleagues from MOST and think that people don't see it. People see and wonder how they can co-operate with those who accuse of the most serious crime and betray national interests. How is it that Mr. Bulj can click as they please, and he knows how they did and how they function? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29188	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas, but there'll be a breach of the Rules of Procedure sooner. First Reverend Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29189	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Maras, injured Article 232. He talked about everything, just not the agenda point. I was talking about the agenda yesterday, but a little bit wider, and you immediately warned me and interrupted me. And in the future, please, if it's possible to interrupt him and take away his word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29190	I warned my colleague Maras, you were correct, and when I warned you, and I did not warn you, you stopped speaking. Unfortunately, colleague Maras was not correct and continued to speak, but it was his usual way of functioning in this House anyway. The following breach of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29191	Article 33 and 34, 33, which speaks of the obligations of the President of the Parliament and of the 34th on the obligations of the Vice-President of the Parliament when replacing the President of the Parliament. A colleague, Maras, spoke here about a case on the agenda when a coalition partner, a member of the coalition, sued for defamation by the other two members of the coalition party because they called him a thief. They called him a thief because they thought he was a thief in the INA. A colleague, Maras, is trying to explain the context of this accusation, a context why Karamarko sues two prominent MOSTs for slander, they believe he is a thief. And that's what they called him in public. And now Maras is trying to explain the context of what happened in INA. You've got him five times. You're preventing it. [[Thank you very much.]] Five times.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29192	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazić, of course I will prevent the speech of what is not the agenda, and the stories of the context are an excuse and you know very well, that unfortunately in this Assembly there is talk of everything other than the points of the agenda, and that and such an approach actually destroys the reputation of this Assembly that I care about. I don't know if you do, but I do. Therefore, I appeal to all other colleagues who will have a large number come forward for this debate, interesting. We've never had anything but last time, it's always been settled without big debates. Now it's clearly what he wants to use for political reasons. I'm appealing to that and I'm asking you to talk exclusively about the subject. Here is the next violation of the Rules of Procedure by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29193	Thank you very much, Vice President. You violated Rules of Procedure No. 240th because you gave the MP a warning twice in a row, and that is not possible according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29194	No, I only said one warning. Next time, you'd take away his word for it if I'd given him a warning. So, I am, I know the Rules of Procedure very well. Thank you very much. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29195	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I also believe that you have violated Article 232. The Rules of Procedure, because you are, in which it writes nicely if the speaker is away from the agenda theme, will be chaired by the chairman to warn him to stick to the agenda theme. If the speaker does not hold the agenda theme after the second call, the chairman will take away his word and may not take part in further debate on the agenda. You warned him on several occasions and warned him to stick to the subject of the agenda, but you continued to let him speak so. I don't think it was necessary to interrupt him at all, because I don't know if anyone's holding Mr. Maras like this seriously anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29196	So you see that I'm trying to be maximumly democratic and let people get away from the agenda, but to a certain limit. When that line is crossed and the borders are crossed not only of this Rules of Procedure but also of courtesy, then I react. But I'm pretty wide because I think you should be democratic in this House. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić. And I'm sorry, you've reached out to the replica. I'm sorry, yes. Now we're going to the replicas. The first are the replicas to show colleagues to Bauk. Dear Representative, Žarko Tušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29197	Thank you, Vice President. Only the introduction of the ultimate statement of all democratic processes in society, and so in our Croatian country are citizens. So let's say the elections that took place a few months ago, they responded as the ultimate statement of all democratic processes. So they responded to any problems that the former HDZ officials and current MOST officials had in coalition relations, and they responded in a very elegant way, which is that they are in our joint vote. to individual, our programme and our candidates gave even more support than we had before. You, unfortunately, can't understand it in any way, and it hurts you perfectly, and I know that you will look for every policy situation to return 15 years back, 10 years back, 5 months back, or any way back, but the truth is only one, HDZ, MOST and political actors in this House who support us have given us and we will stablely manage in the future I am convinced of that. And to return to the very subject and matter of this debate today and end immunity and work of the Mandate-Immunity Commission as well as our practices. There I had no doubt that my colleague Bauk would act as he did and that as a responsible representative in the Croatian Parliament he would be in favour of keeping the current practice. In extreme terms, if some change in the same practice is discussed, it is certainly not one individual case, but some other pleums and bodies are in the Croatian parliamentary life where this could be discussed. It is not ideal, it is optimal, it is in some way assessed by both the Croatian legal profession and the political public. If there were any jumps from those tracks I must say here she was not good even though the test was different than my colleague Bauk said. But I believe that everything else would violate the system that we have today and bring the Croatian Parliament into the position that it is a parliamentary majority arbitration in each individual case, and that would be much, much smaller democratic values and standards than we have today. And that's why I support being stable and sticking to the practice that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29198	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Mark Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29199	...just replicated in that part that refers to the intention of starting production of spectacles. It's possible that this spectacle began but not by our will. In order to prevent the spectacle, we need to come from some facts, the first is that this is the HDZ and Most government and that to the extent that the Most supports HDZ, to the extent that HDZ supports the HDZ, we are not the same. The bridge will never be HDZ or HDZ will ever be Most. What we're discussing right now is a private lawsuit. It's not about the yield between HDZ and the Most. It's about the relationship between Karamark and Bulj and Karamark and Petrov. It's something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29200	Please don't throw it out of the bench, especially not those remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29201	In this way we come to a real area, and this area is called, the area of responsibility for the spoken word. What's said, as it is said, we don't know it yet will determine the court. My colleague Bauk comes from that I was in Zadar and I witness what was said, and I will not tell you what was said and certainly not the way the media was intermediated. That's what I'm saying. It is about media appearances, and the media has a careful choice of leksem, they choose concepts that should produce spectacles, and you are somehow on the line of the plot of the spectacle of Croatia. It is evident in this House that we are constantly in the position of the search for a political entity, and that is most tragic to me as a political theory that deals with the philosophy of politics. I find it very dramatic that we are constantly in a position to find a political entity if it is not there. We have predictable agendas about how someone will act, what they will say, but from this predictability we also have the collapse of democracy, because instead of justifying the truth in the will of the people, we base the truth in the idea of the enemy, and you support that idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29202	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29203	I've tried my best, my colleague Bull, but I may not be, but I am your brother. Here we go, but let's see if the media's got it all figured out. I have to stick to the subject. So, the lawsuit that we're discussing today states your statement "are political elites that have issued national interests by protecting Karamark, Sanader and all the robberies that have happened before knowingly putting a private prosecutor in the context of the perpetrators of the robbery, even though he is aware that his statement to the private prosecutor is not true". And for Mr. Petrov, he writes "the president of the HDZ, Tomislav Karamarko, was removed because he was caught in criminal activities in order only after a month of voter support for the party". Therefore, Mr. Karamarko, who was the president of the HDZ, considers you a slanderer and you treat him as a criminal. So this is a coalition of those who think of each other as slanderers or criminals, and now instead of you apologizing to each other and stopping harassing us there, we still have to discuss this, and you say we're doing a spectacle. Well, you're making a spectacle. So you told the president of the party with whom you were in the coalition that he was a criminal, and he told you you were slanderers. And we're doing a spectacle? So we'd be irresponsible if you didn't make a spectacle of it like you said. This is a first-class political issue. So why don't you call Karamark, apologize to each other, get him to drop the lawsuit, and we'll stop this debate in half an hour, and we'll figure it out. No spectacles, no debates. And don't be offended if we tell you what it says, that's what you said to each other. And what opposition would we be if we didn't talk about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29204	Thank you. The following replicas are addressed to the presentation of fellow Maras. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29205	Thank you, Chairman. I listened to Mr. Maras, and in most of his exposure, I agree. But there is one part of the exposure that I disagree with. He said that MOST acts as if it were an opposition and that they were in power. I would like to say that, and he particularly attacked Mr. Mira Bulj, but I think that Mr. Bulj is one of the few people in this House who is not on a remote control unlike the vast majority of members and HDZ and SDP and who expressed his opinion, who, for example, voted against a budget that he disagreed with, unlike other members of the authorities who hypocritically called on me to make concrete proposals and amendments and then rejected them later, Mr. Bulj voted in favour. So it's not right to attack him as an actor, because he's not an actor. From what I've seen from his, because here it's not just a matter of saying a word, here's a question of how a man works at a certain point in his vote. I remember when it came to VAT hikes Mr. Bulj's caterers wasn't up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29206	My colleague Pernar, you are now also moving away from the subject by praising his fellow Bulls, which is quite fine, but it is not the darkness of this now. It is now a matter of removing immunity or not removing immunity from certain members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29207	As far as the rest of the exposure is concerned, I agree, I just wanted to say let's give my review of that detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29208	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, Maras, who needs an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a proposal for you to try to allow the debate because in this way you are potential a spectacle and follow the example of this distinguished MP from Bakar who probably the whole of Croatia knows his name, which is very relevant so that you let me talk, that I be relevant and that for him who is eager all voters to hear what he says, don't and interrupt him. And as for Mr. Bulj's situation, I'm not saying that Mr. Bulj voted every time, but that is, he's basically one spice to the Most, the spice to the Most that he has, and that's what I think here's one agreed way to the Most show his semi-opportional approach to the whole situation and the action. Because if there wasn't Mr. Bull, then we'd never have anyone to vote against. And they, in my opinion, have allowed Mr Bull to behave oppositionly within the parliamentary majority. That's the only thing I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29210	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29211	Dear Vice President, fellow Maras is the saddest part of everything you think this debate is some kind of field where you can point, an INA debate. This is the last debate, the last topic on which you SDP can contact at all. Let's remember Mr. Linic and the white nights, let's remember Karamarko had Jozo Petrovic I'm just replicating. [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow Grmoy now you are moving away from the topic, please.]] You let a colleague of Maras here give us a lecture I replicate So Karamarko had Joza Petrovic, Zoran Milanovic had Siniša Petrovic. [[I warned him about that same thing, let's not go on white nights.]] And the man I believe to be the bad guy in Croatian politics Ivan Vrdoljak in this situation is protecting national interests while Zoran Milanovic is not protecting probably because Vrdoljak belonged to some other energy lobby. Don't talk about INA, don't talk about INA. And it's clear to me that you don't understand us, it's clear to me that you can't understand that a group of people in the past government for the first time refused to overrule, and that's why for the first time since this country exists, the Croatian government has fallen. It's not clear to you and you're wondering how you can't buy yourself, you can't buy yourself positions, how do you have the right to your own opinion? You don't understand it, and I understand it because you're not used to the way it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29212	The Honorable Representative Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29213	Mr. Grmoya, it's easy that I don't understand you, but most Croatian citizens don't understand you. They don't understand why you object to HDZ for certain things, why do you call them criminals and why are you now mentioning the former prime minister so why is there no such statement for him? Why isn't he in that context? Because there is no such situation, he does not have that interesting link as did former HDZ president Milanovic and say so freely, say so freely, so I have not seen such statements from you. ... And what does Sinisa Petrovic, Sinisa Petrovic, mean? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29214	Please, first of all, let's not throw ourselves off the bench, secondly I say again, let's stick to the subject. It's about removing or not removing immunity from three members of this high house. Let's not undermine the level of discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29215	And as for the INA itself, Mr. Grmoya, I don't know if you followed, I was the initiator of the INA in 2010 when Prime Minister Sanders also came to answer for... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29216	As I told my colleagues Grumoji not to talk about the subject outside I ask you again not to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29217	Don't beg me. I'm just answering.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29218	Then I warn you, once again, by taking away your words. I warned you by taking away your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29219	And why did you take my word?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29220	Because you're not answering, because you're having a discussion with me. ... Because you have no right to discuss with me in a situation like this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Read your Rules of Procedure and you will know how to behave then finally in the Parliament properly. Dear Representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29221	Thank you very much. Well, you spoke to your colleague Maras in your discussion about another subject and we're talking about removing immunity from another subject, but you mentioned... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29222	Comrade Stazic, please don't yell from the scene. ... No, you can't interfere with my colleague Boric speaking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29223	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29224	Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29225	So colleague Maras called us for inconsistency. He told us what the consistency of HDZ looks like. I have to compare here how the SDP's appearance of consistency especially with him personally. For several days now, they've been looking for persistent travel costs, reasons for the President's trip, etc. what she was doing in America, what she was dealing with, who paid for it, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29226	Comrade Boric, what does this have to do with removing immunity?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29227	So I answer to the line. ... So let me finish. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29228	Please focus on the subject. This doesn't make any sense anymore. Now we're gonna go in there and we're gonna fight, one of us is gonna step away from the rules and then the other one's gonna stand down again, and what? And where are we gonna come from? We'll...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29229	.../Intruder Boric: But fellow Maras carried out a series.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29230	...to discuss everything and everything? So let's concentrate on what's really a topic right now. I'm asking you nicely, but really everything to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29231	I'm trying to replicate on his exposure which is very...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29232	I know, but don't do it the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29233	Then we won't replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29234	I appeal not to be the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29235	Then I won't replicate. Then it doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29236	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29237	Mr. Vice President, I had the intention of raising the breach of the Rules of Procedure after which you warned Mr. Maras, a colleague of Maras, and then I had the intention of replicating what he was saying and not being in the topic. Almost all his exposure was out of the question, and that's removing immunity to Mr. President of Parliament and Mr. Bull. So you don't fall into that same trap right now if you remind me not to stick to the subject I won't replicate, but I ask you, since I gave up my line, that when Mr. Maras and someone else is out of the picture to warn him or let us return it to him in the same way. That's what I'm asking you. So we at the Croatian Democratic Community club will not tolerate Mr Maras or any other representative insulting us and beyond the subject without us answering. So now, by respecting your position, I'm going to withdraw the replica and I'm not going to replicate it because there's quite a bit of what Mr. Maras was talking about on behalf of the club to replicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29238	Thank you very much for sticking to that attitude I take here, which is to stick to the subject. That's why I had to remind my colleague Maras, unfortunately, to take away his word for it because he continued with this incorrect behavior. And I'm asking you all to be correct, let's talk about the subject that we're talking about right now. The next line is, the answer to the replica, please choose your colleague Maras. No, you can't, I took the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29239	I can, I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29240	I'm a taken word. So how?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29241	Excuse me, then I'll hurt the Rules of Procedure. Can I hurt the Rules of Procedure? No, but it's out of point. Oh, no? So that's what I can do? May I, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29242	Comrade Maras, please. Don't make a spectacle like my colleague Bauk said from this assembly I'm asking nicely. Well, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29243	Article 240 has been injured. You, if you were going to take away the word from me until the end of this point, and obviously Maras is a bigger problem than what the president of HDZ is called a criminal, and this one... So the bigger problem is talking about it in the Croatian Parliament than it is, and what these people are doing in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, well, that's your business. But since you haven't taken me away from the session, I think you've misread this article and I have the right to speak further. I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29244	All right, come on. I'm famous for being pretty broad-minded about it. Here are the replicas I hope will be in the topic. No, he can now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29245	Thank you very much. Although I said one more time, so I would like not to be called incorrect because I am talking about problems that plague the Croatian state and behavioural authorities in mutual relations. So I wouldn't be a good representative if I told people everything was beautiful and beautiful while the president of one coalition partner is being accused of being a criminal by another coalition partner. And I'm asking you, Mr. President, and that's what I'm saying, here's what I'm saying to my colleague Bacic to let the MPs decide who's right, who's wrong, who has arguments, who has no arguments. And this does not humiliate the Croatian Parliament, it humiliates this debate between coalition partners. And the principle that one coalition partner shakes hands and supports another coalition partner who thinks he's being led by a criminal. Here is what is problematic in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29246	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29247	So I would like to say that article 231 gives the words: “The president gives the MPs the word in the order in which they applied. The president is concerned that the speaker should not be distracted or prevented in his speech." In my opinion, by persistently breaking into the words of the speakers, it is simply that the debate is unnecessarily delayed. It's just that you're not the one who's been taking part in the debate all along with your comments. You're actually prolonging this instead of letting a man tell his own. [[Employer Reiner: A colleague of Pernar...]] Say Mr. Maras, he could apologize for 10 minutes and say goodbye, sit down. But by constantly raising these injuries to the Rules of Procedure by the MPs and constantly distracting the speakers in the speech by you, the debate is simply becoming unsightly. This is, this is, let people talk and don't defend each other. If you want to talk, please report for an individual debate, you have 10 minutes or for a replica, not these injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29248	Comrade Pernar, first of all, you have now committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so it is bizarre to talk about the fact that it is not good to raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And secondly, when you get so many votes in the next election, make most of it and hold a session, then you'll probably lead it in a completely different way than I do. I'm convinced of that. But for as long as I run it, I'll run it the way I think it's best. Dear Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29249	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Maras, I know that you are as a longtime parliamentary representative and the best minister in all estimates since the 1990s I will repeat once more. I can only tell you that it would be best for you in the SDP for Pedja Grbin to lead Mark Perkovic Thompson's song "The White Nights of the Black Paths", and it can be conducted by Siniš Petrovic with the help of your former President Zoran Milanovic. And you can call Slavko Linic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29250	A fellow Bull. I don't know if this whole story makes any sense at all. Are you gonna answer that or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29251	Here's the thing about smoking Nikola a little bit, because I see it's really funny, he's fun, Bull. So, Mr. Bull, let go of all the ones you've listed here. We're here to discuss that you called and accused President HDZ of robbing, and you raise your hand and support the HDZ government. These are not people who have disappeared from politics, these are the people of the prominent HDZ members and Jozo Petrovic and Tomislav Karamarko. And now you're trying to sell the story to the Croatian people that you are here are very happy to have Mira Bulja and MOST because he will protect them, and tomorrow you'll push the head of the office of your former in the Management of the People's Newspaper, and the man has never had anywhere near such a responsible duty. Then be consistent until the end, say you're doing the same thing as HDZ. The speakers speak at the same time....you tell stories, but well less and less people believe those stories.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29252	Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Maras, the decisions we're discussing here today are not at all controversial and you know it very well. I am therefore very surprised that you, as a longtime parliamentary representative who well knows the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, are deliberately leaving in another direction, deliberately doing so and it is not correct. The decisions we're discussing here are, as I said, not controversial, so don't do what's wrong. Don't do this. Who are being clapped by HDZ today is not your problem, as it is perfectly none of our business who you're clapping today, and that certainly isn't your former president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29254	The Honorable Representative Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29255	Well, I'd like to clap at you if you'd say something I agree with. What's the problem with clapping someone? Well, let's just say, I get to slap Bull a lot just a little bit of what's a little bit of a denial in that problem. So he flashes a little bit in a positive direction, and then tomorrow he goes back to the way he was. And once again, so the topic that is very important here, Mrs. Lukacic, and why I insist on this is to see how much mistrust is and how the coalition partner works.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29256	My colleague Maras is not a subject, and that is why I am warning you all the time. The topic is removing immunity or not removing immunity from three members, it's a topic, not coalitions, relationship between coalitions, etc. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of Nikola Grmoje will speak. What? I'm sorry my support my colleague Misic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29257	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Maras. This looks like a theater show to me. I don't know if I'm gonna miss out on the subject. This House looks like a theater that we should laugh instead of seriously talking about serious problems. I personally feel so uncomfortable that I feel that I would prefer to leave the Parliament, leave and tell the gentlemen to make a circus, you have made a circus out of a single institution that is serious about which serious things we need to discuss. We're competing on who's going to be nicer and who's going to tell whom that they're just going to put down in some stuff like that. If you want to charge someone, Mr. Maras, you've had four years' chance, 50 billion taxes haven't been paid, 8 billion concessions about it kept quiet for four years. You've had a chance to talk about it in your own parties, and in all parties, you've had a chance to talk about it, and you're making this House a circus out of it. This should not be a theater this should be a serious assembly in which this matter should be debated seriously. I consider the word spoken by someone that they shouldn't even come to the Assembly to get that institution when the Parliament is finished, whether someone is guilty or not of the word spoken, but if someone in the House had embezzled some money that should be answered safely and removed, but the DORH needs to prove it and say that this man did it, that we don't do some things just to sit here and tell some empty stories, it's going to be the whole day that I see, so we did yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29258	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29259	Mr. Misic, please just ask yourself a question of who you trust. Do you trust Mr. Petrov and Bulj that HDZ president is a criminal who has done criminal acts and that therefore the government has passed by the way that 5.6 ministers who were in the past government or you trust HDZ President Karamark to formerly be slandered and use the situation that is in Croatia to act politically in this way. And then when you ask yourself that question, then you'll see that it's not a question of theater, it's a matter of state functioning. And that's why yesterday Mr. Plenkovic can't make a decision about INA, because he doesn't know how the Most people will set themselves up. Well, that's the problem. I keep saying that our government isn't working, and most of us don't. Well, it's not government and most people just press the button on Friday to see if we're 76. That's not it. Whether institutions work, the government is a much wider story than I have had the opportunity to touch in this debate at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29260	Next on behalf of the Most, the honourable representative of Nikola Grmoi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29261	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I have prepared one debate, but since everything has gone in one other direction and that my colleague Marasa, that his colleague Maras is trying to score in one way and it is not clear to him that just because there is a MOST thing will happen in Croatia in the right way. Just because there's a MOST we're talking about different models of INA purchases. If there was a MOST there at the time of Slavko Linic then they might not sell themselves white nights because Miro Bulj would say no white nights, we are going to a referendum. There's no sale, and you don't get it. It is in no way clear to you that we are people who think for themselves, who have been chosen by citizens and are primarily the goal of protecting our national interests. If MOST had existed before and had only participated in the government, perhaps we shouldn't buy INA at all now, the INA would be in Croatian, not perhaps but I'm sure it would be owned by Croatia. You think everyone should be on click as you say, we're not on click. In the first elections we went out in Dubrovnik-Neretva County when we won four county councilors I talked to a HDZ coalitionman who offered us a coalition and I tell them you are legitimate winners, we will support the establishment of the assembly and then we will further see what your decisions will be, that will depend on what decision it is, what project we will support. And he says it's easier for us to buy Jamba. I was telling your colleague who sat next to you, Minister of the former Bauku, not to go to the coalition with Jamba at the local level in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and he wouldn't listen to me, says it's mathematics, politics is mathematics, the number of votes. It's not math for us, it's a struggle for national interests for citizens, and that's how we'll always behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29262	.../Intruder Reiner: A fellow Grmo, now you have gone from the subject completely./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29263	This man right here, I'll be back on the subject, This man here, Miro Bulj, has always been like my colleague Pernar said. [[Let the man speak.]] You're giving him something and he's showing him the works of not saying that he has his own attitude and that he thinks for himself. And he was always like that. I'm going to this Parliament here, he's asking for his immunity, I understand what he's trying to say, he wants to ironize things when no one's answered, let me remind you a little what Mr. Miro Bulj has done all his life and you call him this while you're pushing into politics to become one of the most successful ministers in Croatia's history. So Miro Bulj was 19 years old while some stole this country, when he was 19 years old he went to war, took a rifle and defended this country while some of them, and some of you were foreigners in this country and in this country, stealing Croatia in all parties. He defended Croatia. While some were thinking about how to steal the public company Miro Bulj took the VBR and took out the full charge on the Chestniks on the City and could never endanger the Peruch dam again. So he was protecting the property of HEP while some of them were stealing from public companies. Miro Bulj was always with the workers, he was always socially sensitive. Do you know that Miro Bulj, while Ivo Sanader was a God who walked on the ground in 2007 when they went to remove the plate set by General Gotovina in 99, while you persecuted him as a beast and here means a party that is on my right hand that Miro Buli Ivo Sanader told the traitor and will end you. And that at that time he was forbidden to participate in Sinjska alca, and that is still true today. Did you know about those details? Did you know that he brought asphalt to every house on his local board except his house? And he's a really ideal person who should be responsible for this country's absurd being bigger, and you brought this country here where she is now not Miro Bulj, not MOST. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29264	Thank you. Before we move on to the replicas of respected MPs and MPs, allow me to welcome this year's participants of the international scholarship programme at the gallery, which, as part of the German Bundestag scholarship programme, are staying for a three-day study visit to the Croatian Parliament. I hope that this will also contribute to the level of discussion that will now continue and which first appeared for the replica, the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29265	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29266	Comrade Pernar, please leave the assembly room and eat the apple in peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29267	Well, I don't eat it, Mr. Rainer. I don't eat it because I can't have an apple on my desk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29268	You're repeating things that are completely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29269	Mr. Reiner, please allow me to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29270	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29271	Thank you. I would like to say that Mr. Grumoja mentioned it in his presentation or on behalf of the club that MOST was discussing various models of INAE's purchase. On the other hand, the MOST accused certain HDZ people of stealing Croatia. I must say that regarding the removal of immunity is that it is my opinion that my request is not justified because my colleagues at MOST are right when they say of former HDZ President Tomislav Karamark that he was infused in crime. But it's my opinion that he wasn't the only one. And since INA is the current topic I suggest one...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29272	.../Intruder Reiner: No INA is not a topic at all, the topic is to download.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29273	...but he mentioned the question, because that's why there was this debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29274	.../Intruder Reiner: Immunity or not removing immunity./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29275	... andthefall ofgovernment etc. I have the original solution for buying INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29276	.../Intruder Reiner, colleague Pernar, please. Stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29277	All right, all right. But here it is for Mr....
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29278	.../Intruder Reiner: We are not interested in your original solution at all. We're interested in your position on whether or not immunity should be lifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29279	Just one sentence and then I'll say what I think. Here's what he says. Here's what you think I'm asking all my fellow MPs and the Croatian public to buy INA by returning the money they've been stealing for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29280	You're out of time. The next replica, if you'll excuse me, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29281	Dear Vice President, my colleague Pernar means I was saying that the situation in which Croatia is located is responsible for individuals from all parties. It's not what we said about Karamark, it's what we did when it comes to Karamarko. We warned, Mr. Bulj first warned of a possible conflict of interest and relationship with Jozo Petrovic. So, he did, did not say later that he was then and then Christo, as Evey Sanader did while everyone was nodding his head you are a traitor and all those who persecute Croatian generals, those who have called, even offered a cash amount for it. So that's when he said it and it's not at all controversial. And now it's coming down to how the Most can cooperate, we cooperate because we got as much as we got. Well, we gave the opposition a chance to win the new election and get a new chance and nothing again. This shows that people can't recognize how successful Minister Maras was and that's why I keep repeating here so that people finally realize how good this man has done for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29282	The next is a replica of the distinguished representatives of Anne-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29283	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoja, you pointed out in your presentation that MP Miro Bulj had been sitting in the Croatian Parliament before so that there would be no sale of white nights. Well, I'm asking you here in front of everyone now, since Mr. Bully is sitting here right now, does that mean that he's definitely not going to make it to HEP stock sale and that MOST is definitely not going to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29284	Comrade Petin, how many times do I have to say that it's not a theme, not a white night, not an INA, but a removal of immunity or a removal of immunity? So come on, guys, I really don't understand how it works here anymore. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29285	Thank you very much. When you listen to Mr. Grmoy, I thank him let him keep praising me then understand why there are sects in the world. They are convinced that they are the Messianics, that without them there is nothing they can do, that they can save nothing but everything and then they really convince one part of the people. People sell everything. They're selling their house because they know tomorrow is the end of the world. So when you listen to such enthusiasm sometimes, some of these people can compare it to your speeches. So, what you're repeating, Mr. Grmoya, thank God it was Most 10 years ago, there'd be nothing. It's an empty story, because we can never prove it, only you believe it. Most people in Croatia don't believe it otherwise you'd get 50% of the election. Right? So you're talking about what you believe and why you don't let others talk about what you believe. And you're attacking them because I'm saying it's not normal to support people you say are criminals yesterday. So it's not easy to explain logically. So, if you were talking yesterday, it's not but nemesis. These are people who are prominent members of the HDZ still. What do you think Jozo Petrovic has nothing to do with INA now and MOL? What do you think he's not trying to get to Maric, Plenkovic, anyone else? It's his job. He's got these contacts. That's why he got paid. But you support these people and support the concept that has been so far. And that's all I'm saying. Whether it's going to be for you in four years or not, I don't know, we'll see. But what makes it a problem to mention it? Which is why it's a problem to mention that it's illogical for me that Miro is so fierce about some things and that he supports that government. It's something that's a fundamental question, and maybe Sanader meant what he meant about Mr. Bulj because he came out of HDZ, not because he was personally resentful of something. Because my colleague Bull was in HDZ, you know that, no. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29286	Time. Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29287	Thank you, Vice President. Rules of Procedure 232 of the article have been injured. Mr. Maras got away from the subject again, you didn't warn him, and my colleague Ani-Marija Petin you even loathed at her, so please apologize to her because she was in the context of the replica of Mr. Grumoja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29288	I'm the first one I've known I've never caressed anyone here. And secondly, I agree, I agree with you that he's a colleague of Maras, but he's done it so many times already that we've all Googled it a little bit. But the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29289	Comrade Maras, you may be real and you are and I believe the best minister, but today you're a little confused. I'm not the one who believes it would have been so that it was MOST, but you've been saying it all morning, that the government isn't stable, that MOST is holding back some kind of decision. That's what you're saying. It means that MOST sets itself up as if it had its own view of something and that it was holding back decisions and that the government couldn't make a quick decision. That's what you've been saying all morning. I'm just repeating what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29290	Come on, buddy Maras, now you're starting to throw yourself out of the bench, so what do we do next? Would you bring an apple or a pizza here?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29291	I'm talking to my colleague Maras about you. So what is this, the chairman, can I finish it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29292	I'm warning you, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29293	I wanted to say that you are saying that MOST has been acting now since it exists on a political scene in a certain way as an opposition in power. If he acts like that, then I have the right to conclude if he's acting now so likely before. You're the ones who believe that MOST is such that it has its own... you've been saying it all morning and then you're telling us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29294	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grumo, when you picked up my colleagues' life path, Mira Bulja, you looked at this side, but Mr Mikulić is not sitting on this side. He first mentioned Mr. Bulj's life route in his last term, so we were all horrified. And now you're back with them in the coalition. So this is the topic, and I welcome here the appeal of my fellow vice president, to discuss the removal of immunity for what Mr. Bulj said, and we can be the best in the world, so we can get away from him to say wrong sometimes, and then he can refer that he didn't mean it, so he said that political elites have betrayed national interests by protecting Karamark, Sanader and all the robberies that were happening before, and knowingly put the private prosecutor in the context of the perpetrators of the robbery. So I'm interested in your opinion whether Mr. Karamarko is right in this case, and you don't have to say him because perhaps Mr. Bulja would be in an awkward position when his parliamentary mandate and immunity expires to call for your statement. So you're in a really bad position if you say Bull's right then you insulted the HDZ, if you say Karamarko's right, then you've exposed the additional Mr. Bull. Therefore, I warn you that if you want to answer that question, you can, but I will understand your caution if you do not and do not answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29296	The Honorable representative of the bush will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29297	I've already answered. I said Mr. Bulj didn't just say that but also warned of a potential conflict of interest that was later proven. And now as the journalist said so in Zadar as counterpart Vučetic said and as it was transferred, it is generally known that Mr Karamarko was proven to have a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29298	The next one will speak on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29299	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Parliament. Here is the subject of the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, namely the part relating to the charges for the slander of Mr Tomislav Karamark towards the President of the Assembly, Bozi Petrov and fellow MP Bulju. We know from the past the work of the commission that there will be a decision of the Croatian Parliament, but we should return a little to the causes that have even led to this defamation suit. So the indictment is that Karamarko was said to have left HDZ president over criminal activities. Mr. Karamarko has a long history of slander lawsuits, so in these disputes mentions whistle whistler Sonja Vlahek, journalist Domagoj Margetić, I don't know Nacional, you also have Mijat Stanić trade unionists etc. a very long history of conflict or hiding behind it. I will look back at Sonja Vlahek, which I already mentioned in this Assembly whistle, Mrs. Vlahek worked in Croatia as former head of the Office for Corporate Communications of the Croatian Post Office, and for years without success she pointed to the illegality and corruption of the work of the Croatian Post Office. She also warned of a case involving Mr Tomislav Karamark and other members of the government at the time. It's extremely relevant because we know what's going on with Mr. Calmett and that he's being tried these days. Why does it all matter? It's important that our institutions work, and they don't work, then we wouldn't be here where we are and there wouldn't be any slander charges, because some would have been sanctioned long ago. Here's an example, so this year a small criminal is convicted of writing the newspaper Dario Schneider called the Bowl, probably looking at this from Remetinc, so out of the total of 20 heist raids in which at least 1.2 million kuna has been reached in three years. He was sentenced to 7.5 years in prison. He says he was breaking into post office and banking offices, masked with jokes, scarfs, he was convicted, but it's a petty criminal. What about what Mrs. Vlahek warned about with the withdrawal of money? It's a big crime. You remember that German saying, "We send little thieves to the gallows, and we take off our hats in front of them." And now let's look at the state's attorney's budget. 2014 in millions, 41 million, 2015 47 million, 2016. 55 million and there are now some projections 64,...somewhere in the rankings of 50, 60 million on average in the last few years. On the other hand, let us look at the budget of the Croatian Government in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29300	My colleague Sincic, we do not speak again, I must warn you as well as some predecessors about the budget now whether it is a good budget for the DORH, whether it is a good budget for the government, we are talking about the issue of removing immunity because of libel.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29301	Thank you, colleague Reiner. I am in the context that it would not be possible for the institutions to do their job, if double standards were in force in Croatia. So 236 million, 275 and then jumps from 230 to 350. Mr. Plenkovic increased his funds by 50%. On the other hand, who's been reading the DORH report this thick blue book, you can see that there's a state attorney inside that I don't think anything good about Dinko Cwitan is crying out for funds that I can do my job, to process crime in time. No, there's no money here, the authorities in this country have been told that we have an impotent DORH, an incompetent DORH, a corrupt, full of clientelism, that he can't prosecute the crime of all sides. If he could have been a long time ago, he'd have been prosecuted as much in normal countries within two years, not to wait 10 years like we've been waiting for Calmet, and then we'll be tried for 10 years and then he'll be released if he doesn't die. That doesn't make sense. Let's go back to Mrs. Sonja Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29302	I'm sorry, Mrs. Sonja Vlahek is not a party here. ... Don't throw your friend Pernar off the bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Enough with your apples, you don't have to go any further. ... I remind you of my colleague Pernar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29303	In 15 minutes, I wanted to elaborate my opinion on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which is why such a decision was made and the causes that caused it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29304	I know, but please stick to the subject. You mention various events that are not related to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29305	I'm sticking to the subject. The theme is Mr. Karamarko, whether he was a criminal or not, and whether he left because of the crime. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29306	No, it's not a topic, it's a theme of taking down... I'm warning you for the second time choose to leave the hall. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29307	Comrade Reiner, please let us end in peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29308	Please call the guards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29309	I've got my time to expose the problem so everyone understands the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29310	I'm sorry to interrupt my colleague Sincic, but I'm asking you to take care of this situation. Have my colleague Pernar come out or voluntarily or we'll call the guards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29311	.../Intruder Pernar: Call the guards./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29312	Well, that was in the history of this Parliament, too, there were such excellent persons, so I know it suits you to create a spectacle, but anyway. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29313	May I continue?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29314	We'd better hang up before the spectacle caused by fellow Pernar ends. ... Time will get a colleague, Sincic, don't worry. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Since my colleague Pernar has calmed down, please continue with your colleague Sincic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29315	Thank you, Chairman. So I think it is very important for the moral hygiene of both Croatian society and the Parliament to read what Mrs. Vlahek said "Crime officers, and this is about the attack on her after testifying in the event of the withdrawal of money from the Croatian post office, the criminals are the most ranked members of a criminal criminal organisation that has robbed and is still robbing Croatia and the Croatian people. And which I have been investigating for the past decades, revealing, reporting, testifying against them." Adding that she was naive enough to trust the institutions of the system. There is not only the Karamarko issue, it also mentions Milanovic's family that allegedly pulled some money. When will the investigation be launched and when will we start protecting our whistles? I'll go back to the gentleman... An interesting case is Mr Stanic's unionist case in the Croatian highways which was also exposed to terror as he warned of illegalities, the withdrawal of money. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] For example, Stanic argues that the interior minister has affected the hitchhiking of investigations against HAC leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29316	Comrade Sincic, please forgive me, we will stop the time of course until this situation is resolved that colleague Pernar, who wants to draw public attention by force and the media will now finally be happy. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29317	I'm looking for a five-minute break on behalf of the HDZ Club until it's ready, set up a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29318	He can't get inside my speech when he's done with my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29319	... I'll think you didn't even start talking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have been denied the time of your fellow time, you have the right to speak, every time of course use your time and we will now take a break for peace in this House. I apologize to you for, unfortunately, being distracted by your exposure. It's 11:00.25. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] Unfortunately, I had to keep him away until the end of today. I don't like it, and I hope it never happens again, but there you go. A few colleagues called. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29321	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club because of this situation that was caused by the way we conduct the session and I ask you to grant me a break. It doesn't have to be 10 minutes, it could be two, just so the club can talk. ... Okay. Ten, that the club of representatives should address the Croatian public because this is really not the right thing to do in the Croatian Parliament. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29322	I agree that it is not the right thing to do in the Croatian Parliament, but unfortunately it is not me, but a colleague, at least you will probably try to show it differently. It's obvious to me from what you said, but good. Here you go. Dear Comrade Bunjac was next.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29323	Thank you, Vice President. I declare that it will appeal to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and I will ask for a concrete and precise list of how many times you have spoken to the Assembly today. That was at least a hundred times. And don't dive crocodile tears now, because you are responsible for this situation, not Agent Pernar. You simply didn't allow people to speak, but you were doing a spectacle of this constituency show, not the ones you insist that they wanted. Therefore, please take a look at a session led by Parliament Speaker Petrov or Vice President Jandrokovic and Brkic and learn something from the way they conduct the sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29324	Thank you very much. Of course, it's your right to endure. Dear Representative Beus Richembergh, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29325	On behalf of the HNS Club, I am also looking for a break from HSU on the same reason as my colleague Maras said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29326	Thank you. Anyone else? Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And the HDZ Club is looking for a break about these events just before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29328	Thank you. Dear Representative Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Party club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29330	Thank you. Dear comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29331	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall Club, I'm looking for a break to talk about today's non-democracy session.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29332	Thank you. Anyone else? No, I don't. Dear Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29333	On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break, on behalf of the MOST Club, on behalf of these events that preceded.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29334	Thank you. Okay, so I'll see you at 12:00. It's 11:50 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29336	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Before they start talking about the break, the Rules of Procedure in Article 241, 244 were injured, and I think it is very important that this scene we have now witnessed, which is a distance from the assembly, reminders, etc. must comply with the Rules of Procedure. Whether there are likely to be stories about who is to blame for this or whether the suffocating of the debate on your part that we regularly testify to in this regard, the reason why it all happened together is that you are obliged to respect our rules of procedure regardless of which representative or representative is responsible for respecting the rules of the Rules of Procedure. If you want to get another person out of the House, then you have to act there in a way that before it does, you have to make a decision about it. Mr. Sincic, our colleague has been expelled from the assembly without your decision. Read Article 244. The Rules of Procedure, you'll see it's true. As for the rest of the story, that means 241 before you had to set a double sentence for Mr. Pernar's parliamentary representative, you didn't do it. Therefore, respect the Rules of Procedure and then there will be more order here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29337	My colleague Ostojić, this is all you said is not true, and it's not true because you weren't here. You didn't sit here during the session, so you didn't follow what was going on or you didn't see it. So I acted strictly on the Rules of Procedure, so I warned my colleague once, and I warned him about taking the words away, and then there was a distance. No one else is away from the session, no one is denied the right to speak. My buddy Son sits there, don't talk. Please, let's be serious, let's not talk about a colleague of Sincic's gone, sitting there and now he'll talk, of course as the next speaker as I said. Here you go. What's hurt again?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29338	Dear Mr. Vice President, Article 244. I'll say it one more time. At first, it's not true that I wasn't there, I was a witness and I watched it all together, and I saw that the Assembly Guard, regardless of what you said about Mr. Sincic and the same man, was out of the hall, no matter who it was. That could happen tomorrow to some other representative or advocate. Second, don't tell the truth. I was in the hall, so I looked at it, and I saw what was going on. And third, do business with the Rules of Procedure, read it, and you'll see inside. Before that, you did not give a double measure to Mr. Pernar, and then you removed him from the hall. Therefore, do not say that before consulting the Rules of Procedure, then answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29339	Like this colleague Ostojić, please take whenever you want a stenogram of the session and you will see that I am right, not you. But now we're going to continue with the break. Comrade Bunjac, you've had the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 241 of my colleague Sincic is away from the session without your sanctioning the previous one, so it should be according to the Rules of Procedure. The guard ripped my cell phone out of my hand. I don't know that you've given me any kind of a strict measure. I think there's been an excess of authority and I think you're still taking this session in the wrong direction. If you can't control it, please stop it, not that we have to continue to witness these scenes that certainly destroy Parliament's dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29341	I agree that, and I hope that there will be no such scene that destroys Parliament's dignity. You know very well that I didn't give you or my colleague Sincic any punishment or anything. So I don't understand what it's about. Let's take a break. So first, on behalf of the SDP, the honourable representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. For the first time in this assembly, although I would not have put my hand in the fire if it were the last, but we should always believe, we attended the scene that civil servants intervened to carry out the action of the chairman's session on distance from the session. Of course, individual MPs can use it to make it more theatrical, so they're victims. And in one part, I can put it as the meaning of my political action, so they end up getting what they wanted, which may be legitimate, and maybe it isn't. They say again, man is classy. And when we talk about it, man's style is then the presidents of the session have their own style. So we in the opposition ranks talk about how the presidents conduct the session, and I must admit that we like the way in which we hold the session of Vice-President Brkic and Vice-President Jandrokovic far more than how we conduct Vice-President Reiner's session. And that's statisticalally speaking, maybe it can also be proved that when we see how many times the president has interrupted the speaker from sticking to the subject or how many times as many times as the chairman widely interprets it when someone is holding on to the topic. You, Mr. Vice President, in this session, have quite narrowly assessed what the subject is because members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission have received as material Mr. Karamark's lawsuit against Mr. Bulj and Petrov. And we felt that it was legitimate to talk about the reasons for the lawsuit, the circumstances that led to the lawsuit, the context of the lawsuit and the political relations between the two largest parties of the ruling coalition that came to the point of suing each other. These guys say they're criminals, and then these guys say they're slanderers. And it's a first-class political topic and, of course, it's a bit of a flammable subject in that context and you're a little overly strict about your attitude, which is legitimate again, but this time you're wrong about what the subject is, that we're at the end, that at the end of the debate, we're escalating in that we've come to a situation of distance from the session. Of course, that's our attitude. I believe that tensions need to be calmed down, that, of course, we should continue with argument and tolerate further debate and session. We suggest that the follow-up of this point is led by one of the neutral vice presidents, and in this case they are neutral either Mrs Opačić or Mr. Vrdoljak, so if MOST and HDZ are being sued here we are neutral, so we will end this to allow the representatives to speak a little more freely about this topic. Because we didn't sue, we didn't sue, we didn't put this on the agenda and it accuses us of making a spectacle. This time, neither onions nor onions smell. You picked up the ball and we nailed it. So don't put yourself in that position anymore. Either you get back together, or you put it in some less visible term, or you do what the Rules of Procedure allows you to do in the work of what you have the right to conduct a session. But once you've got that in mind, put a political bomb on Friday morning, then let it be discussed. So here's my humble appeal. So we will continue to participate in the debate after voting on this. We do not, of course, support neither the theatreisation, nor all that has been in the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure that led to "unforgiving scenes." I said I already don't think this is the last time in this term but it is up to us to make it as little times as possible for those who lead the session. During this debate, you also interrupted Mr. Boric, and Mrs. Petin, and Mr. Grumoy, Mr. Maras, for a good morning, but you even acted preventively on Mr. Bačić who did not dare replicate Marasa when he saw how strict you were. So, you remember that joke when it is, and now I'm gonna end up if you give me five more seconds, so you're in the situation of that driver who came to England, driving on the right side, and he says everyone's wrong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29343	Thank you very much. I'm glad that you've taken the initiative that I've treated everyone equally. I may have interpreted the subject a little more strictly by your assessment, but I was hoping that we'd actually focus on what the subject is. What I say is whoever thinks that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, that I have broken the Rules of Procedure there is a course way and there is a commission or Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political arrangement and can apply. I would now give my word to the honourable representative Goran Beus, who will speak for the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the HSZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29344	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, I use this opportunity to protest. Protest because we are witnesses precedentd in the recent history of the Croatian Parliament. There have also been cases in several past terms that a measure of distance has been expressed from the session. The parliamentary guard carried out the decision very elegantly because the MP was generally held to order, which is to respect the measure expressed and not physically oppose. This is the highlight of the reality show that is trying to turn the Croatian Parliament into in this term. I call on us to think carefully about whether we will continue to threaten the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, this high House, which should be an example to all in the Republic of Croatia of how political debates are being conducted and how conflicts are being resolved. The task of the chairman is to manage conflicts if it comes to them. Certainly not to contribute to escalation or to create new conflicts. In a situation where it is not possible for different reasons to carry out a measure because it opposes insubordination, it is not wise to order physical intervention. Today, we witnessed that it was not possible to carry out it as it was imposed, so a colleague, Sincic, as well as other colleagues who were physically close. We thus brought the parliamentary guard into a very awkward situation that they must carry out one order in a way that violates the powers given to them by the same order. On the other hand, the tasks of each representative and MP, the obligation of a moral, ethical obligation is to carry out the order of the chairman and respect him because he has a whole series of institutes to protest if he considers that he is suspended. This is not only a public announcement of complaints to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system but it is the possibility of communicating its message to the public and in other ways. In this House, a number of journalists and almost all the newsrooms have been accredited. Everything you have to say, and what you can't say in this assembly can be said in different forms. But using the Parliament to show some kind of muscle is extremely incorrect. What have we gotten ourselves into? Dispose of the Living Wall? The one who wanted to see that debacle actually lifted the sense of the political party's existence if you think about it better. However, what is extremely important to say in such situations in which, without a physical conflict, we cannot solve the new opportunities that have arisen, it would be good for the chairman to interrupt the session and not continue the same day. It would give everyone a chance to cool their heads and think about what they're doing and how they're acting. This is a convocation in which more than half of the MPs are first represented. I hoped that when they came to this Croatian Parliament they would feel that strength and spirit, that commitment and honor and that they would strive to treat the institution with the highest level of respect. Unfortunately, some of us have seen this as a debate club where no rules are respected. That's not good. Will the new Ethics Code that is now in the works ever help us to change our behavior? I'm afraid not. So I appeal to the conscience of all of us, figure out where we are. This is the most important place in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to making decisions. We are the mirror of this nation. We were sent by those who trust us to represent their interests, certainly not with the task of deepening social conflicts but to solve them. Political frustrations, insufficient success in elections, internal problems and all other things that have nothing to do with public interest we leave at the door of not parliament, but Parliament. And here we are fighting political battles for the ideas we stand for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29345	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Drago Prgomet will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29346	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, if successful, if you wanted to come to the front page of the portal by this act, then it worked. Whether it was staged or not, this is the way of relations with the Croatian Assembly... This kind of commentary, and at the end of the rejection of what the chairman asked for, it worked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, we can like the way the chairman runs the session or doesn't like it, but as long as it is within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, as long as it is within the framework of the law, we are as parliamentary representatives chosen by citizens to respect it. I repeat, like it or not. On the other hand, I fully understand that each of the MPs here sees as an opportunity for personal affirmation. What is not good, which seems to me to be some of the MPs you took as the only authentic interpreters of the will of the citizens forgetting that we are all elected here I repeat it at the will of the citizens you have right to be the voice of the people, the exclusive voice of the people or the national tribunals. So I'd just like to remind you of one thing, that there's a small line, a border between the people's tribunal and pulsism. For the people's tribune speaks what the people say, and the populist speak what the people love to hear. And if the citizens continue to give us negative grades on the work of the Parliament, then let's not forget we're ourselves to blame. This is an institution chosen according to the will of the citizens and it should be – serious, responsible in which someone said personal frustrations, the desire for self-promotion should be left outside. And to those who lead the assembly session, let them lead as the Rules of Procedure command. We will continue to advocate that this is indeed a place where serious decisions are made which are being decided, in which a democratic, reasoned manner is being discussed. Everything outside of that as a representative club is totally unacceptable. I understand, I repeat, that some see space here and an opportunity to often participate in the debates are imposed as serious political factors in this country. Well, I don't mind that, so here in the context we're constantly attacking Mr. Pernar as he constantly has comments on something he read a passage from a book by Ivo Andric and it's called "The Damned Aulium", maybe it's educational for all of us. We are more or less inclined to condemn those who speak a lot of things that do not concern them directly, even if with contempt we speak of these people as blasphemers and boring stories, and we do not think that this human, human, and so often the flaw has its own good side, and that their expressions are imperfect, colored by personal passions, needs or even incorrect because we have reason, experience and we can judge them, compare them with each other, receive them and reject them partially or entirely. So it's not on him. It's on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29347	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29348	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Our colleagues from the Living Wall since the third month of 2012 represent a group, and now representatives in the Croatian Parliament who prevent the actions of those who have found themselves in a situation that they cannot pay off their apartments, houses or that for some other reason they use spaces that are not their own or the decision of state institutions can no longer use them. It should not have happened for some of them to be decommissioned from the Parliament. It's a bad political message. In particular, it should not have happened that in the chaos that occurred, Col. Sincic was also delegated or remote, although there was no assumption of it, and there was no need. I also don't want to accuse the guards because she was in a situation where she had to do something that wasn't normal circumstances but taking a rough move of her cell phone hand out of her colleague Bunjca's hand is also not something that can happen. So I'd like to say that each of us can contribute to this Parliament's doing what in most of its working time, that means as a decent Parliament, the most important part of over 90% of the time is that. There are different words, sometimes harsh, sometimes less rough, sometimes ugly, and sometimes less ugly but most of all our Parliament belongs to a more polite group of Parliaments for the experiences and knowledge we have. And you should do everything that when you see where things are going, and you've seen about ten hours where things are going, you should've done it to avoid this situation. I'm not saying someone in particular is responsible for that. Maybe I'm responsible too, maybe I should have asked for a word earlier and said something, but here I am saying it now and it would have been really good if this scene hadn't happened again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29349	Thank you. The next one will be taken by the Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29350	Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. They've taken Stepan Radic out of this assembly ten times. It is known who he was taking out, how the presidents of the Parliament were making such decisions. We also know today whose side of history stands. History certainly does not stand in the way of those who have made such decisions. We here today have a situation that MPs are not allowed to speak. And we have the right to base what we've heard in the past few days that the government's task, beware, will be to take away voters and mandates from the ruling government. And why is that? Because there must be a blind implementation of the EU policy, which, let's say quite frankly, has taken the liberty of Croatian citizens, and this is a classic example. The moment we criticised the EU and all these alleged integrations, we criticised Croatia's subordination to other people's boots. Croatia is not a free country because we have been deprived of our right to our culture. We are forced by a force as strong as culture. We're no longer a free body or a free individual, but we're just a wheel in one machine that we'll never drive. And this is actually a struggle for the survival of the Croatian people. This story about INA MOL deserves to be told, spoken of. When should MPs talk about it if not now? And why is it so much adolescence of this Rules of Procedure that literally every MP has to be interrupted several times as he speaks? Freedom of speech is a constitutional category, here you have the Constitution all ahead of you, tolerance too. We're bringing the Ethics Code. What's the need? That in this way we silence each other or those who say things that the elite like, but who are very interested in Croatian people. The Croatian people want to hear what the MPs think about this case. For this reason, I believe that what happened today should never happen again to the chair of any session, whether it is a plenary session or a committee session, if it is not able to lead the session in a quality way to leave it to its vice president. Every chairman has a replacement, he doesn't have to expose himself to situations he's not up to. If it can't be otherwise, it can interrupt the session and bring out guards who are guilty and who aren't guilty, I think we should conclude that this was the first and last time. I end my exposure in that faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29351	Thank you very much. And the last one on behalf of the Most is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29352	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, most of it means what I was going to say was brought out by those who spoke before me. The fact is that many of us today didn't exactly stick to the subject, after we were warned, I'm here personally while I was speaking I was warned, I immediately returned to the topic. So we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, we have to listen to the chairman even though we may not like his style, it doesn't suit us, we'd like to say everything we want to say, and I certainly think that my colleague Pernar is aware that it wasn't right when he got up and yelled like that, but he might also be the chairman when he was already, so he wasn't consistent, so Mr. Maras pulled that notice or the ban on speech then maybe he should have been called in when he was called a break that might have calmed his passion, and maybe he should have given up and Mr. Pernar kicked himself out of the assembly and it wouldn't have happened this circus that we witnessed. So some conclusion that we should respect what the chairman is saying is that we should stick to the subject. Mr. Sincic spoke of whistles during his debate on the removal of immunity, as I did this morning to call a break, I was talking about telecommunications, he could talk about this subject, and none of this would have happened. We have mechanisms, we have instruments that we can warn of certain things, we have the possibility of press conferences so that we can open up certain topics and it would be good if we were to stick to it as agents. I am personally very temperamental, I know often and exaggerated but always means to remind the chairman that I am trying to get back on the subject and not get a chance to get some kind of warning or to have the chairman give me a measure to get me kicked out of the assembly. So mostly here I think that situations like this can be avoided and I was a personal teacher at school and what most students look at consistency, means consistency as you do to one student that you have to be to everyone. Well, maybe this situation wouldn't have occurred if Mr. Maras had already been returned to the right of speech that perhaps in this apartment it had given up that Mr. Pernar had been kicked out of the assembly. And in the end, he was the most profitable, and he actually wanted this. He became a media star and many people watched a live circus that happened here in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29353	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the vote on the points discussed so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29355	We continue to discuss the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next representative who appeared on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives is Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29356	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs! After that completely unnecessary escalation and exaggeration in my opinion, Mr. Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29357	Excuse me, Mr. Sincic, just a moment, please. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to respect a colleague of Sincic's at the moment he exhibits. If you'd like to leave the assembly, I'd like you to do it quietly. Representative Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29358	Thank you. We are discussing here that Mr Tomislav Karamarko is the former president of the Croatian Democratic Community the first vice-president of the government, before I would remind him in 2004, in 2006, the director of the POA, then from 2006 to 2008, the director of SOA, and then he was Minister of Interior during Mr Sanader and during the Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. So, there's a very long long internship in the system, he had a lot of resources at his disposal, all Croatian spies worked for four years, I guess a billion kuna was spent on SOA and POA's work during that period cumulatively, and Tomislav Karamarko has all that information at his disposal. As interior minister, he could stop investigations, he could launch investigations, he could direct the work of the MUP, he could frame the MUP. I'd like to compare it to a very important person in the history of the United States, and this is J. Edgar Hoover, who was the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Founder, in fact, today's famous FBI, was headed for 48 years. It's history now, he's gone, and now we can judge him, and we know what it was and how it was done. He did pursue crime, however, used extensive information he collected over 50 years to blackmail senators, presidents, congressmen and other officials, it was a double sword. And Mr. Tomislav Karamarko was in the position of a two-story sword. He could and should have used the information and power he had to prosecute crime. However, what I am about to read shows that there are indications that he used the other side more, that he misused the information and the power he had. Therefore, a private slander suit says this is how Karamarko sued because in the summer of the pre-election campaign for the Croatian Parliament of Bridges, they said Karamarko had left HDZ for the post of HDZ president over criminal acts. It's a question of whether it was these shops or not. Of course, the Mandate-Immunity Commission will advise to dismiss itself because it is a private lawsuit, we know, it is a process and procedure. However, I will use this debate to indicate whether there was a foundation or no foundation, whether there were indications or not that Mr. Karamarko was therefore involved in criminal activities, so before I was interrupted, I went to indicate in order what the Croatian whistles were saying, I was talking about some processes. Let's start with Sonja Vlahek Croatian Post Office's former Head of Corporate Communications for years warned of illegalities in the work of the Croatian Post Office, she warned of the Sobol case among others, and her claim was like this as one of the great sources "Crime officers are the most ranked members of the criminal organisation that robbed and still robbed Croatia and the Croatian people, which I have investigated, disclosed, reported and testified against them in recent decades – she wrote... that she was naive enough to trust the institutions of the system. [[You don't understand.]] And whoever's doing a little activism, they're going to come across similar and numerous whistles that have done their civic duty like our civic duty here to talk about it. Our country's colleagues and colleagues have a lot of problems with corruption. We're still a young democracy and I don't know how long it's gonna take to finally get rid of all these tails. Isn't it a shame that one prime minister, former Prime Minister Sanader, is located where he is? Well, isn't that a billion times more embarrassing objectively than anything anyone in this assembly is saying? So how does the world look at us? And what's even more tragic is that we're not able as a state to process him successfully. I guess ten years will take that trial. Will anything ever be taken from him? Now Minister Calmeta will have to defend himself in court. They say the whistle-sniffing witnesses are probably also connected to Karamark what I'm talking about here today. Let's look at the former ministers from these governments and I won't be biased, I won't just attack this side. I'm interested in the arrests at HEP. Mrs. Vlahek spoke about the connection with Mr. Milanovic's family also the former prime minister. All of this needs to be investigated and sanctioned to be healthy society. Mrs. Vlahek testified against Mr. Karamark, was physically attacked. Furthermore, Domagoj Margetic, an investigative journalist, was also attacked several times by what he wrote about it. He was sued by Karamarko for slander. With Mrs. Vlahek's testimony, Karamarko lost that slander suit. Furthermore, I would like to dedicate myself to one more of the witnesses, and this is Mr. Mijat Stanic, president of the Independent Road Union. And his allegations that he had worked hard with his colleagues and obtained a lot of information from the institutions of the state that – he is probably the most responsible that there was even a interception of Mr. Calmeta 10 years after the work was done, even more. So, at the time the police conducted investigations into the HAC malfeasances, Sobol received millions of jobs from HAC and other companies in Kalmet's portfolio. I can responsibly say that to be directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29359	Representative Sincic, I apologize. Please, I understand the link, but I'd like to ask you about these topics to request a break. I don't want to interrupt. I'd like to pray and stick to the subject. We understand the point, but I would only ask that you point your exposure to the topic at present if it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29360	So, I was talking in context to make the public understand what this is about. Then, we have a lot of union testimony, so it says in detail how the tenders were arranged that one firm had given 100, another 102, that the same mistakes were repeated, that the amounts were exactly 2% higher, the same tables, the same fonts – one school example of fraud of money withdrawal. An interesting detail that could not be skipped, the USKOK said it was not the USKOK problem, but the police, and it brought them a police report saying to suspend the procedure because there are no elements of the crime. The minister is usually Tomislav Karamarko. Furthermore, another quote -- I have already spoken publicly of Karamarko as interior minister using his position to prevent certain investigations, but no one paid attention. You also have the case of Božidar Kalmeta, who is a synonym for organised crime in Croatia and who survived only thanks to the protection of Mr Karamark because Sobol is the most money, so because Sobol got the most money out of the ministry at which Kalmeta was headed. The trial is going to happen and it has to happen. It was supposed to be 10 years ago. Why is our system paralyzed? Just because we gave “the fox to guard the henhouse. ” Mr. Karamarko, this is just one piece of the tip of the iceberg of what happened to him and around him. So he was the minister, he could frame, direct investigations. He could have said this information we'll use to prosecute a political opponent, and this information will not be used and that's where I'll stop the investigation. And witnesses say it happened. What am I saying? I want to conclude that there are strong indications that there are trials, that Mr. Karamarko was Minister in the Government of Ivo Sanader with others, some of them living ministers and living politicians. Here's even our president was in that government for a while. At the same time, besides staffing, we have a strong deficit of funds for “using the handcuffs to guard the hens. ” So I listed before I was interrupted, the funds that were given to the government. We see a sharp jump from 2016 to 2017 from 50%. 50% more funds go to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not sure exactly what she needs it for. I don't think she needs them. The last government didn't spend that much. At the same time, the DORH stagnates us at 40, 50, 60 million kuna according to the state budget report. And who was reading a report that wasn't popular in this House? When it's on the agenda, it just sinks down and down and down. He puts himself in some small hours when there's some kind of celebration, something, to move his focus on it. I therefore call on the institutions and I call on the Bureau of Parliament to face our problems to put the debate at a time when it is visible and when it will encourage real debate. In this report of the DORH for funds, it is cried out that someone understands this institution even though I do not have a close opinion on Mr Cvitan or on Mr Bajic before him, but let us give people the means to process crime and in real time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29361	Representative Sincic, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29362	Here's to slowly coming to an end. As for Mr. Karamark, it was held under the auspices of the European Commission delegation of a workshop on corruption, we have one paper by journalist Drazen Rajkovic, where he states that three times more damage was done during Sanader's rule than in the war, then there are numerous affairs, the farthest road construction, INA MOL 7.3 billion, shipbuilding 5.4, which you will, Sunčani Hvar 574 million, Croatia post office 500 million that I have now talked about, Plinacro 485 million, Podravka 404 million, Croatian postal bank 328 million kuna, etc., the list is probably endless. Only 20 major cases are listed here. So what now? All of this before he entered the Government of the Independent Lists Bridge was supposed to know, he either knew it or should have known it was personal and would show that I believe it and the time when we set up the institutions that Mr. Karamarko and Mr. Sanader and the whole government and the furniture participated in illegal actions and I can agree that Karamarko had left HDZ for the position of HDZ president because of the criminal activities but it certainly did not apportion the Bridge, Most should have known it or knew it, anyway he went to that criminal story which I was very sorry about. And Mr. Plenkovic, what's he doing? He said here the other day that he was going against me and my colleagues to direct the institutions. Mr. Plenkovic, direct the institutions against this crime which, here I am only calling you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29363	Mr. Sincic, I'm giving you a warning right now, please don't. I also ask all the other parliamentary representatives, take advantage of all the opportunities that the Croatian Parliament gives you, talk about the topics that bother you and which you consider to affect all citizens of the Republic of Croatia but I only want to discuss this topic in a very civilized, decent, measured manner. Please, and all the other parliamentary representatives, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29364	Thank you, Chairman. I think it's important to warn the reasons why there's been a lawsuit in the first place and against you personally. And I've cited double standards that hurt the most Croatian citizens, and I've listed a petty criminal, Mr. Bowl, who was convicted of a small 1.2 million. It should be, absolutely, but what about these great things. I call on this country to get rid of double standards and act the way normal countries do, it's a deficit of democracy. What message do we send to young people of my generation? Some citizens tell me, Son, you're a good young man, you're smart, you speak well, etc. And some say Sincic you're the biggest fool in this country because you're going to spend your youth on the ones up there or you're going to compete with some who should have been there a long time ago. My colleagues and colleagues, Croatia is not just time from the 1990s or today, Croatia is also the future. So who will remain in this land if we treat justice this way, or injustice. Now, I would just like to call once again on the Prime Minister to direct the resources, which I have also called in an inaugural speech to the right things, and those who believe that the living wall is the main problem in this country, and not what I have stated has neither honor nor morality nor courage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29365	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Žagar reported first to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29366	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Sincic, you and I, colleagues and colleagues here have great responsibility for building a better tomorrow. You went a little bit wider in your debate. I think I'm talking here about Mr. Karamark's private lawsuit against Mr. Bull and Mr. Petrov, but here's the debate we couldn't escape from political connotations. My father was a political prisoner. One of the charges was just that, one man was offended, told him he was a thief and at the time it wasn't supposed to be because he had a certain political position. It wasn't a private lawsuit at the time, it was the D.A.'s office who took the stage. My father ended up in prison, several times he knew me on several occasions to tell me this one would sell the state for a glass of wine. I didn't understand it at the time, but today it's a little clearer for me. However, this debate and all this that is now the consequence of all this is happening is also the motive for why I volunteered for the replica. You have repeatedly mentioned the Croatian institutions, the largest institutions of this country. We can talk about former Prime Minister Sanader, Karamark, but the fact is the Croatian government and this is also called MOL, the Croatian government has concluded a contract. The INA administration did not contradict one word when it was deprived of its rights through the executive directors. The Croatian Assembly could not agree on any point in which they wanted to prove that the contract was harmful. And finally, the Croatian judiciary with the final decision of the Constitutional Court led us into this situation. So, the biggest institutions, not individuals, that's what hurts the most. The largest institutions have brought us into this situation, and in the end, they have put us in a position that fellow High President Petrov, colleague Bulj, is defending him from the indictment of his former counterpart because of what has not been done for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29367	Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29368	Thank you, Chairman. Here's a colleague you touched in his replica of INA as one of the crucial points why there was at all a breakdown of Most and HDZ in the previous assembly of the Parliament, but I must say that, and at the protest before the INA, I think it was the sixth month of last year, I cited exactly the criminal reports by whistlers in the INA, exactly the criminal charges by number, the service number, whatever it took that wasn't processed because our judiciary didn't do its job in the first place, so we suffer the consequences abroad. Our judiciary is not able to determine the responsibility of Sanader, our judiciary is not able to investigate a criminal application stating that Hungarians work in INA without work permits or while they should have been well within the European Union, and now without a labour contract. That's where we could have caught them. MOL has a long corrupt past, see what they did in Syria and how they ended up there. Look what's going on at the Sisak Refinery. He's deliberately showing, and I was saying a few years ago that he's doing it, he's deliberately showing the refinery as a loser even though she's not. And it's a good thing Nacional released the exact data a few weeks ago. The refinery in Sisak is not a loser and MOL pulls us by the nose, lies to us and shows him as a loser that he can shut him down and wants to turn our INA into a large gas station where from Hungary and Slovakia from their refineries will be driven to a warehouse in Sisak and Rijeka and where their fuel will then be sold at gas stations where people will work for minimum wage. And I don't think it's allowed, and all because the judiciary doesn't do its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29369	Thank you. Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29370	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Sincic, representatives Bulj and Petrov therefore told former Deputy Prime Minister and HDZ that he spoke false information to the public and I have no doubt that he did so. But they also gave the same two MPs false information to the public. I will now quote very briefly – "The claim that the arbitration before the United Nations Commission for International Trade Law must be withdrawn because of the danger of losing the dispute against MOL is against the protection of the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. Giving up arbitration, therefore, means giving up on Croatia. According to all, arbitration will be favourable for Croatia so that there is no fear." So this is where someone misinformed the public. That's what you said, Mr. Bull in May 2016. So I don't know, Representative Sincic, is it known to you on the basis of which information someone claimed that arbitration would be favourable for Croatia and that Croatian citizens do not have to feel any concern about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29371	Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29372	Thank you, pal Bunjac. I don't know who that counselor was. I know what I know from the media. However, who advises people whom the Croatian people trust to lead? Are these people whose other interests are at heart or is that all they've told the public is a farce to buy a certain amount of time? It would also be interesting to examine why the Hungarian ambassador visited the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia all of it, so a very short time before the verdict of Ivo Sanader was brought down. That would also be interesting to examine. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29373	Thank you. And MP Miro Bulj answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29374	Comrade Sincic, you said that many people, especially the younger population, are asking why you're here, what you're doing here. Well, you are as free as we all are here in this House, and also with the free will of the voters of the Croatian people. I would also refer to this section, which you have now replicated briefly everything I have done in the past term, I would do again in the protection of national interests. And if it weren't for that, there weren't 12 people who didn't want to fool the government today, and your colleague, Bunjac, wouldn't be in this House every day teaching us parliamentary deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29375	Thank you. The HDZ advocates' club also reported for discussion. Their representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29376	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which is denied the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against the representative or the president of the Croatian Parliament of Mr Petrov, colleagues of Bulj and colleagues of Pupovac. We'll do it for a few reasons. But the first reason is that so far, the practice of the Croatian Parliament has been to deny the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against parliamentary deputies who have immunity under the Constitution. I have to say on behalf of the club, and in my own person, that practice was different than it has been lately. And we must therefore consider whether, with this practice, we will continue to deny, after a private lawsuit, the right to conduct proceedings against a single representative. Why? Because so far, we have had the practice of denying the conduct of the proceedings in previous councils, but we have not entered the plenary session into the metrics, but we have found that we will not allow proceedings against the parliamentary representative to be conducted. And we have hardly ever opened a debate about the metrics that triggers proceedings against a parliamentary representative. In this way, when we in the Assembly are opening a debate, and if the prosecutor is a former politician or another person known in the media space, then the debate is generally used here, so that the same person to whom the prosecutor is and whom we deny the right to come up with all the satisfaction in the court if he is innocent or that the court is wrong, but rather the same person who asks for satisfaction in the court once again to be mocked and satonized and once again belittled, and then once again, and perhaps all that is expensive, is not true and that this person may be satisfied after four years if the representative who slandered him in one term or after two mandates, after who lives who lives who lives is dead. This family, and the person to whom we deny the right to conduct the procedure will remain in the permanent belief that this person is indeed when a highly positioned politician hesitates to be guilty. And we need to take care of it independently, today, about Mr. Tomislav Karamark or the other person, yesterday, the third, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the fourth person. So, not only do we enjoy the fact that we have immunity, but we are still allowing ourselves to defend ourselves in front of all the media in front of the same person who is not able to defend ourselves because he is not a parliamentary representative because he has no right to do so. And once again, the entire Croatian public on the open stage must listen to slanders and insults and at the same time we will not allow you to conduct the procedure. And that's why I've been having this debate all morning and the debates that were previously unacceptable to me. Let's at least be as Parliamentarians with dignity when we're already denying someone the right to prove their innocence, but let's at least be a little bit correct and let's not open a debate about a person who can't defend himself here. On the other hand, it is true that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in the case of Mr Karamark found that he was in conflict of interest, it is true that the Administrative Court rejected his appeal, all of it stands. But you know how many civil and local officials have found conflict of interest, including here in the Croatian Parliament. It's a big number. But being in a conflict of interest and being a criminal is a huge difference and we have no right to interpret the conflict of interest in a criminal activity, that's what we have to take care of. As far as I'm concerned, I must say that I would never stop and expect parliamentary immunity to give me protection in court, I personally would never ask for it because I choose very carefully words when I say any political opponent or any other person's convictions, grades and God forbid I take care of the principle of imputability. Therefore, we will in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community in accordance with current practice, and we will not deny the right to conduct the proceedings, but if the practice continues in the Assembly to allow the person asking for it to come to an end all satisfaction in the court and we will once again show the same person here in the Assembly that has no opportunity to say a single word in our defence, we will consider in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community whether we will continue with such practice. We think it's at least correct to the people we deny the right to conduct a procedure to prove their innocence. We do not enter into the metrics, and we must not, as advocates, take for granted the right to be part of the Croatian judiciary. We are a legislative representative body, but certainly every word we say here in this Assembly is heard in the Croatian public space, in Croatian society. And when a parliamentary representative makes his assessment, a large number of Croatian citizens believe it is absolutely true, a large number. And while someone later in court in four, eight, in twelve years prove that he was wrong, more stories are closed and it's hard for those people who passed such a public lynch both in the Assembly and outside the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29377	Thank you. Representative Kazimir Varda first responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29378	Mr. President of the Parliament! Reverend Bačić, I've been waiting for your debate all along. I have experienced today, I need to apologize to the entire Croatian public for the way the Parliament works. I've already warned in the replica once that we've led to the absurdity of this practice of not taking off immunity in private lawsuits. I will certainly vote in favour of the Committee's proposal until this practice is changed because it has not been responsible for it, it has been applying a practice that has been for years. But on this occasion, I point out that we've come to an too wide understanding of the Institute of Immunities. The immunity under the Constitution shall be protected by the representative of Article 76 for an opinion or vote in the Assembly. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution once again states that everyone is guaranteed the respect and legal protection of his personal, family life, dignity, respect, and honor. What rights do we as Parliamentarians have more than the one who chose us in this House? If we question his honor and reputation personal or honor and the reputation of his family. We are protected as face bears if our mandate lasts two, three, four or five times. There's no one left to sue and his family's wearing that seal. I think it's time for the Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Human Rights to consider the situation today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29379	Agent Varda, thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29380	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29381	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29382	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you absolutely that a parliamentary representative should take care of every spoken word not only because of his own responsibility, but because of the responsibility and authority of the Croatian Parliament. I am not to make it impossible for us to prevent representatives in their most important business, which is to say, to criticise, to question all phenomena in Croatian society. But there must be a limit to which a parliamentary representative can take care of this article of the Constitution in which you have stated that there is a need to take care of the dignity of every Croatian citizen. The second is the situation, I strongly argue that we here in our parliamentary debate can go beyond that, because the colleague you referred to at times is a difficult word or a difficult word however you like, there is an opportunity to answer and we need to be aware of it and we accept it. But I'm saying, there's got to be a measure. But if we can move forward with a person who can't answer us, we don't know how much damage we're doing to that person, her family, so we have to take care of it. And so, on behalf of the Club, I said that we must, or when the people who are suing are not MPs here, refuse if we want to, if that's what we want, if it's a practice to refuse and prevent the conduct of the proceedings but then a minimum of what we have to do doesn't lead to a debate on the metrics. And we're slowly having a discussion about the metrics, getting into the grades of the same person who doesn't have a chance to say a single word in his defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29383	Time. Thank you. Representative Milorad Batinic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29384	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleague Bačić, I can accept your thinking in part in the debate. I believe, perhaps, that kind of statement to us as parliamentary representatives would not happen here or outside, and we would also respect the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because we have exactly what and how we should express ourselves, whether the ethical code where practical qualifications like someone is a criminal, someone the national traitor should be valorized not only with a warning, perhaps someone different for us parliamentary representatives. That's where I agree. However, whether it may be the background of a whole story that should be much more detailed on this subject, although I am not a supporter, I have always been, the practice has been to support the Committee's position, and I think we should nevertheless have a certain immunity as spoken. However, it is a question of the qualification of spoken words. These are heavy charges, heavy charges from our two colleagues versus our former third colleague. Did it happen to the INA, did it do anything else? Is that why INA is a national interest, is that why you don't open up and expand and not go on taking off your immunity? Now, that's what I'd like the board to discuss, and then pass on the position in the assembly. That's one thing. The other thing is either said or said in a broader context in a lack of understanding of interpartner relations, or something else. So we have a few questions that I hope we'll get an answer soon enough. However, you are still in the coalition today, so spare us both here and Croatian citizens from such discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29385	Reply to the replica, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29386	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Batinić, I am pleased that at least one part of you agree with what I said. But we Parliamentarians have so many business opportunities, so many Rules of Procedures wide range of tools, the instruments provide that we can open a debate on any topic. We can establish an investigative commission. We can in any way through the procedure of the Croatian Parliament if we think and have a position in a particular situation, according to a particular criminal work, according to a specific project, we have the opportunity to implement the procedure. But that procedure then implies that the other side can be declared. Not that it can, but it has to. And then, as Parliamentarians, we open up the debate after we hear the other side, after we hear all the arguments from the other side, and then we get the grades. This way when the other side is gone, it's unacceptable to me. That's what I wanted to tell you. I am to continue practice the way we had, but this practice is no longer the same as it used to be. That was my message from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29387	Thank you. Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29388	Dear counterpart Bačić, I support your words with all my heart because my sentences and words were mostly like that when I defended my position, which is why I broke my parliamentary practice and raised my hand to our colleague, Pernar, when he personally insulted the name and last name of a man who had no opportunity to defend himself there. And we really should think carefully about why it serves parliamentary immunity. Today we witnessed a staged circus here in a assembly announced long before by the person who insulted me and this Parliament. We were recently witnesses when the Croatian anthem was played he stayed seated. When he asked for a minute of silence for the dead he stayed seated, today he came to Parliament with an apple. And people like that, even though they're MPs, they can speak, they can act politically.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29389	Representative Klaric, I'd really like to ask if you've raised your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29390	It's about Mr. Bacic's argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29391	I haven't heard, I'm sorry, but Agent Klaric, I really think that the last half hour we've been talking normally, we're having a normal discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29392	I'm only setting one example.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29393	I ask you to hold on to what MP Bačić was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29394	I can finish. So what I just said was I just wanted to explain that you said that we should think about situations where the search for private persons when their personality was injured can be allowed to remove parliamentary immunity. And here I will finally mention only one man whose name was spread across all the media, who had been on all the televisions, who for years opposed these names, whose family suffered from former Minister Roncevic, who was eventually legally released. Who ever thought of giving him some kind of apology or satisfaction for what he'd been through? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29395	Thank you. Before there's a reply to the replica, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're giving up? Representative Bačić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29396	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Klaric, you mentioned a colleague of Bulls in your replica. I'm not a single person, I'm not a single agent who's been asked to initiate the procedure specifically. There were no colleagues of the bush as I spoke on behalf of the club and I wanted to replicate to him through my exposure that before I knew my colleagues, I knew Mira Bulja, and I can confirm everything he said about Mira. And I know that he was just like I was a Croatian defender, and I know how and in what way he stood up to certain policies in Sinj, I know that I say this before you, but I am sure that Miro Bulj, as a Croatian defender, fought for the legal and orderly Croatia, fought precisely for the constitution that speaks of the principle of presummation of innocence and that I expect that after this, too, Bulj will still, in a certain way, when he evaluates other persons as much as he disagreed with them, however much as he had his personal attitude to refrain from such assessments before the bodies who were responsible for it. So here's what would be friendly, collegiately proposed to my colleague Bulju, and on it it's clear, each of us is a person to himself, he will continue to work and here in this House as he thinks is most appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29397	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29398	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, I can't agree with you in this part that in the future I think I can agree that you have the right to think but I don't think it's a good practice that in the future related to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29399	I would ask esteemed agents to hold their internal debate outside the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29400	It means that you may change the view of the debates and the statements of the MPs and that it would be good to change that in order for someone to be more protected in the future or not to be exposed to additional charges whether they are based, unfounded, etc. So, I'm the fourth term in the Parliament, I've said a lot here, I never got a lawsuit. So I'm assessing that I'm not exactly the kind of person who's afraid to say what they're thinking, and maybe sometimes in my sentences I'll be more direct than someone's used to, but I've never gotten a lawsuit, and I don't think there's any reason for you to do things right and on the other hand when an agent warns of any irregularities he can't think about a possible lawsuit. This would limit the work of representatives, or his, I would say the possibility of indicating irregularities. I can see somewhere that something that happened incorrectly, maybe not have proof specifically that in court I could prove it but my word against someone and in this way that you said I'd bet a lot of MPs had a brake in detecting irregularities and pointing at some things that were wrong but all the time this debate I didn't even go for that extra Karamark I don't know how to say it, but I pointed to another political dimension. So it wasn't an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29401	Representative Maras, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29402	All right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29403	Reply to the replica, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29404	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Maras, I did not say that we were defaming the parliamentary debate, but each of us is a representative who participates in this debate in his own way. I'm holding that MP who's willing to give a conviction to anyone that's then ready for any conjecture. Therefore, but in that case, if you say so, then let's end immunity because someone against me, my fifth term in the Croatian Parliament, after 25 years, is to conduct a procedure that I, in the first year of my parliamentary term, slandered someone, you know that justice is meaningless. Justice if it is not swift and effective makes no sense and brings no satisfaction. Since I'm going to slander someone in the first year and he's going to wait for my four, five or six terms to get the satisfaction, then it's better if we tell that man at first don't sue a parliamentary representative because you'll never get that satisfaction in court. That's the difference. I agree that the parliamentary representative can perform as he wills, but then let him bear the conjecture of every Croatian citizen. And this, everything can be said, everything can be shown, all affairs can be opened but we do not need to label it because you and I have sworn that we will respect the Croatian Constitution and the fundamental principle of the Croatian Constitution is the principle of presummation of innocence and I have been holding on to it since I first day in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29405	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29406	Thank you. President of the Croatian Parliament! Dear colleague Bačić, you have really moved me to think. Here's what I'm going to say. I'm going to say two things in favor of your thinking, and then one in favor is actually the opposite. So, Parliament is a political body I fully agree with you it's not good that the Parliament takes over the role of the court, so that we judge here, we make decisions about whether someone is guilty or even extends the indictment or even further insults the person who filed the motion. Perhaps in the future, and probably many European parliaments already have that practice, perhaps most of the things discussed here at the plenary session will be translated into the work of the committee where it should actually be, and perhaps it should be amended by the Rules of Procedure to make such matters known only by the parent body and to vote in the Assembly, that there is no debate and that is one solution. Many of you colleagues and colleagues were members of municipal councils, city councils, county congregations. There's no immunity, there's a man there who has to be careful what he says he doesn't insult anyone because he can't hide behind it. And in that sense, when you're talking about the immunity of parliamentary deputies, then I'm really wondering if the MP must have immunity when we're talking about him as a politician, and we see here that there's a lawsuit between people who are in politics, whether they're in politics or in politics. However, what is in favor of immunity? There are many interest groups in this society, many interests of power, many individuals who are very wealthy, rich and in this sense I would not like to lose their immunity because tomorrow I can say something in the debate against this stakeholders group and they can construct some sort of indictment and if there is no rule that if it didn't trigger the State's Attorney's Office, so far it's such a rule as I understand the State's Attorney's Attorney's Office when it starts the proceedings, when the private suit doesn't. If there is no such protection, then someone who is truly financially powerful and can destroy a man. Here, that's how I look at it more like this in layman's terms. Of course, there are always methods of protection but I think immunity has its purpose but of course I agree with you that everyone is responsible for what they say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29407	Reply to the replica, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29408	I agree with my colleague, Sagar, I absolutely agree with you. So immunity may exist but there is a measure in which we MPs must have our own hive when we exhibit here in this House. And I think that I've been quite clear here, so that our parliamentary representatives are speaking, exhibiting the only tool in our hands, and if we end up stopping in those performances, then practically this Parliament will be completely dead and that's where I agree with you. But I'm telling you that when there are cases like this, when someone in front of the Croatian judiciary wants to achieve all the satisfaction we, at least in my opinion, have no parliamentary representatives at that point in the agenda then discuss and practically assume the responsibility of the Croatian judiciary and already through a debate that is heard in the Croatian public practically accuse the person who is trying to defend himself in court. This is inadmissible to me, and there was such a practice in this House when the request for a private lawsuit was without debate, when the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission said that we proposed it almost always, not always, almost always, not quite 100%, but almost always we never discussed, we simply accepted such a decision. This is how we open up a series of new questions, stories, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29409	Thank you. Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29410	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, I fully support your debate and perhaps this should have been the first debate today, perhaps this day would have looked different than it was today because my apology to the Croatian citizens because of the situation, the episode we participated in because of the inadequacy of a parliamentary representative of the function that should be treated primarily by his behaviour but also by his education. What I wanted to say and add to your debate is that we are discussing here a report from a parliamentary body called the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We have committees with very different roles. This commission has a very narrow, very narrow authority, very narrow and never before has there been a debate on any subject in such a way as to do so in the term of office of this Government and this Parliament. We also have a National Council to fight corruption, and we are discussing his reports. But this way to discuss one body that has to determine immunity by removing the non-repair and beginning or ending the mandate or resting the mandate, it was never done in this way. That's really the first time. Why? Because individuals realized that in one person like we had on behalf of a club discussion this morning you could be both a prosecutor and a witness and a judge who judges. And it's very politically highly directed. And you can say everything in ten minutes, prove, judge, and maybe there's only one execution left. Well, I mean, we take off two immunitys, we don't take down a few of them, but there's still a lot of debates going on longer than any point, other points of the agenda. I think what you said we'll think about practice. I don't think anyone should be sure that HDZ isn't capable of it, but it will really go the wrong way, given that the Mandate-Immunity Commission really is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29411	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29412	I thank my colleague, Boric. I must say that I welcome President-in-Office's initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure and to adopt the Ethics Code. We have been involved as a club in the development of the Ethics Code and in the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. I think that one of the major amendments to the Rules of Procedure should be determined according to this debate on the request to remove the immunity of the private prosecutor when it comes to removing the immunity of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is a real opportunity for me to also show on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and on all other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament a number of reasons for how and how to act when it comes to removing immunity so that sometimes our fellow parliamentary representatives who are in a position to or are in a position to seek their immunity are not in an awkward situation. I think there are ways and ways to do that through an ethical code, and certainly through the Rules of Procedure, these things are defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29413	Thank you. The individual debate on this subject was attended by a representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29414	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's today's whole day of debate about removing two immunitys. And right at the beginning I must say that I do not agree with the views of those around this point who think it is only a question of whether and when the memo came, the request in the Croatian Parliament, whether the parliamentary representative has immunity or whether he needs it. So there are certain political connotations, there are circumstances, there are a lot of things that we as advocates can discuss, and it's not good that we restrict the parliamentary debate because today we have witnessed what this has led to. Of course, a scene that is not good but the fact is certain that a normal debate was allowed, if HDZ had not been repressed, or one of the presidents of his repression would never have happened in this situation. And the easiest thing to do is not just say it's wrong. It's the easiest thing to label a man who can speak, who can't speak, how to act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29415	I'd like to ask you, Agent Maras, stick to the subject. So you applied for individual participation in the debate on the subject of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, not on the subject of freedom of speech in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29416	That's true, but I only have to tell you the introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29417	/Intruder President: You can choose...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29418	What an argument it was because you weren't here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29419	President: You don't need it for that. I can track through other aids to the Parliament. You don't need to introduce me to that. Just continue with the theme./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29420	Okay. She would only ask at the beginning, so the debate can't also be an evaluation subjectively or anywhere in the Rules of Procedure if you can have a link to some other things and it's never the same. So I'm asking you now when I'm discussing that if I'm related to certain examples that you don't immediately take this away from the topic because it's only started to take away from the topic if you're not talking exactly, exactly about that paragraph, and that's how my colleague Boric realized that the memo came to take off his immunity and we're moving on. And this is really about a political couple of excellencies case, and that's why I want to say one more time about the practice so far. The HDZ is already that practice once as far as I know it has violated when it comes to the case of the former and present alike, but in the previous term of Agent Jovanovic when he removed his immunity, when he called HDZ a criminal organisation because of the situations that took place in 2008, 9 and 10, and that is why it is important that the Croatian public knows that HDZ has its own practice which has not always been the same as before. And I would like to say that in this situation we have the removal of immunity from two MPs who were sued by a former representative or vice president of the Croatian government for defamation of him, who at the same time participated in the government and worked together in a way that the Croatian public did not think he was. So, it was the government that's been here for a year claiming to fulfil its duties, to do excellent work, etc. Until at some point it all collapsed together. I would like what my colleague Bauk said that HDZ and Most do not burden us with such things or that if they have information or if they think that their partners are criminals or slanderers to explain to us at all why they can cooperate in this way and why it is good for Croatia. Why is it good for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to cooperate with the Bridge and HDZ in the way they cooperate and at the same time accuse each other of such difficult things? And I think that's one of the main reasons why this one and the last government didn't work, which is why the past government had a fiasco, and that's why there's going to be a lot of problems in the future of this government. And I'm not at all optimistic that this government is going to get far, too, because there is a certain and huge mistrust. This makes it impossible for me to make government work and make decisions for Mr Plenkovic. Because we saw today from Mr. Bačić's debate here that he's trying to protect Mr. Karamark and I can even understand it, he's still a respected HDZ member. He's an ex-president. 90,000 people voted for him five, six months ago. Things can't change overnight. So, Mr. Bacic has protected you if you understand well in your debate, Mr. Karamark, from these further attacks. On the other hand, Mr Petrovic is also a member of HDZ and is still likely to be on the contract with MOL and around the INA will have certain interests. And then the real question is, how is it possible to make such important decisions when there are so few trusts and so many broken relationships not since a year, five or fifteen years ago? We can talk about HDZ before, but no, it happened three, four months ago when the people sitting here, who are mostly in the government, were standing tight as a rock behind Mr. Karamark. And that's what Croatian citizens need to hear, it's a subject of a couple of excellencies. There's not a theme here to build an excess and get someone out of the assembly. The theme here is that people on this example that happened two months ago see that the Croatian government is not functioning and why we have problems like we have around the INA and around HEP. Don't be angry, Mr. President. Do you understand the political dimension? I see you've started to gesture again to tell me something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29421	No, I don't. On the contrary. You just say I'll write a review of how you've experienced this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29422	You're going to write a review?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29423	Of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29424	Scientific work, or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29425	If necessary. You just keep not wasting your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29426	Okay. I recommend you to have one series called "In Treatment", that's your profession, so look, it's a very interesting HBO, but it's mostly what I wanted to say here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29427	.../Intruder President:...go ahead./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29428	I wanted to say that Croatian citizens must be aware that this does not work because of the non-confidential coalition partners shown through the removal of immunity that we received today on the table. It is impossible to work together if you think that you are criminals or slanderers and on that side we will warn you further, I hope that this will not be a problem as far as the debate itself is concerned because a lot of people feel uncomfortable when they cry out to him, when he warns that this is not the right thing to talk about in the Parliament and in the end because of such things, the situation is escalating and what happened today happens. I call once again on everyone here to contribute not to make it impossible for people to speak in the Croatian Parliament. And as for removing immunity, I disagree with Mr. Bačić, so even though it may happen in practice that someone abuses it, it may be one, it may be five, it may be twenty people, but as long as you have one person in the Croatian Parliament who will use it in a way that is in the interest of the public, that protection must remain in me and I deeply believe that in the Croatian Parliament there is a large majority of MPs who will use this right to point out irregularities, help people to be more informed, to prevent things and to allow our society to be better. So, I will continue to advocate that people for a spoken word in the Croatian Parliament can, means that they remain immune, I will advocate that people can speak freely here and I will advocate that then they are automatically not labeling themselves as such or as such, that they are trying to be shown in public in the most negative way possible because people must also be aware in this House that each of us has his sympathisers and that when you tell someone that he didn't get up during the anthem because of that and that's why he made it so that you invite your sympathisers not to be incorrect but that they can be all kinds of people. So everyone in this House has the right to express their position in the way he thinks it is right and Croatian voters should judge or judge who anyone was, but in this way they should not put a label on him immediately and make him a target for potential criticism objective or subjective. And finally here's to say that my position here is to remain immune because I support Mr. Petrov and Mr. Bulj deeply in their efforts to protect if they have knowledge and they certainly have more knowledge than I have from the opposition that certain criminal acts have taken place. The only thing I would not like in the future, and I am convinced that it will be so that the Croatian government does not function precisely because there is no trust. Then it's better not to sit with someone you don't trust to work successfully and efficiently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29429	Thank you, Agent Maras. Before we go to the replicas, I really like dr. Cal Lightman, look at the little episode about it, you have a lot to, each of us to learn. I would only say one thing that if I acquired a quality impression you actually criminal acts that are the center of this decision you associate with the failure of the current government. ... All right, that's all I'm interested in. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. The replicas are next. Agent Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29430	Your Honor! Comrade Maras, I think you should be the happiest with this accent that happened because in the debate this morning which was your argument is meant to be completely hollow, so what the president said at the same time was a man who, at the same time, warned about the conflict of interest is the current prime minister of this government who said at the HDZ Council that the HDZ party and this government is also the hostage of one man. Well, let me remind you that some ministers from your government spoke about your prime minister and president, former party president and accused him of certain criminal activities, that does not mean that the SDP is in conflict with the SDP, but that Linic is in conflict with Milanovic or that Mirela Holy is in conflict with Milanovic, there is no way you can link it. And on the other hand, when you're talking, and I showed it to you in the debate this morning, and somehow you've been killed, and you've been very welcome to see what happened, I've shown you that what you're saying is that this government is unstable is good for Croatia. It's good that we have an attitude, that the Bridge has a view of everything and that in some things it disagrees with the HDZ. We do not agree on everything with HDZ, we have our position and try to reach the best solutions for Croatia with our partners. I don't know how you can't possibly figure it out. You're used to having partners at local levels who give some chairs, they nod their heads, raise their hands the way you like it. We're not like that. We're not like that. We're not like that. We were not sued by HDZ because we and Karamark's HDZ refused to be in the past government. Do you know they offered to make anyone prime minister after they brought down the government? We didn't say yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29431	I would like to thank the representative of Nikola Grmoi. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29432	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoya. Here, this is exactly what I wanted to hear from you. So, I wanted to hear that you're justifying HDZ, that it's not that old HDZ anymore, that Plenkovic is the one who called Karamark, that's it. So, a HDZ partner like that needs to defend him, which justifies him, and that's a much more normal function. And now I'm going to tell you why I think that... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29433	/Intruder President: I would like to ask the representative of Nikola Grmoya to refrain from the incursions/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29434	It's the only way to speak, Mr. Grmoya, and then there's no problem. They know where you stand and where you stand, not pretending to be in half power, half opposition. So you de facto think HDZ is the right organization and that's okay for you. So that's what I wanted to hear from you. And since it's good for Croatia as you said there is a bridge as a partner, it tells you enough about the INA situation that partners don't agree, but the president of one partner comes out and says the position and then the government partner communicates something else all the time and eventually the president of that partner comes out with something completely different without agreeing. Well, now, if you think it's a good government function and that Croatia needs it, I don't think it's because you should be a partner who should listen to an older partner or a younger partner unnecessarily, but because I guess partners should first agree on something that's so crucial and crucial as INA, and then go out together with a common position. I'm telling you about this type of operation or the failure of the Croatian government. And I'm going to tell you the same thing I said earlier, I don't think it's good for Croatia, no matter what you pointed out in the past time of the HDZ's criminal action, since this obviously trust is not even now that it's good for the functioning of Croatia. And in this government. [[The President's incursion: time. Thank you.]] That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29435	The President's incursion: time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29436	...and in this government. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29437	Thank you. Representative Žarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29438	... I agree with my colleague Maras, I agree with a large part of the debate. [[You don't understand.]] I'm going to paraphrase it a little bit with a few graphic sentences. So the other day we had a debate on our board where I said you were criminally bad at your job. It's very difficult for you to get a criminal act of slander out of that statement of mine. It's a matter of my interpretation of you and your work of my observation and it's part of my right to speak. But for example, I could say that I have indications and information that during your work at the Ministry or anyone else's work certain crimes have been committed and that I call on state institutions to investigate them. Well, you see, in that case, it would already be a felony of slander and you could press a private suit against me. What exactly am I trying to say? I would like to say that the abolition of the practice so far would be omitted to that level that we now have, indeed, in many ways in which we can make it impossible for MPs to point out that they are questioning, focusing on certain problems and that, in some ways, within the limits of the maximum of their democratic powers, they are doing their job well. But here I think it's not a practice problem, it's people's problem, how we interpret it, how we interpret it, what level we use it to is our right, and where we go. I think in these cases we've overstepped our rights and our powers in some way, and to that extent we've entered into the essence and to the extent of the fact that we've actually accused an individual, a man, brought him to a pillar of shame, in a situation where he can't even defend himself at this point, that's one thing. And secondly, no less important in a situation where we don't even know if he's going to be prosecuted for anything that we've debated today, given that at this point, the state authorities haven't brought any criminal charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29439	/The incursion president: Thank you./
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29440	Let me have another sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29441	I'd like to pray, but it's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29442	It's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29443	/The President's intrusion: Please, but time is up. I'm sorry, I have to be equal to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29444	But it's important, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29445	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29446	Thank you very much. I have to tell you first that in fact, don't hesitate when you criticize me. I'm even glad you said that and people heard that. Although one part of the people told me why that Zdravko Maric attacked you, no, because you must be quite similar. So, I had to explain that it wasn't Zdravko Maric. You're welcome to continue. I'm glad when you question my work and I have no problem with it at all because everyone has the opportunity to defend themselves and say all the other things. So I don't even have a problem with you saying this, and I'm not going to sue you because I didn't get one in four years, I only had one anonymous application that was rejected at the beginning of the term. So I don't, I'm not one of those officials who has hundreds of applications at least I know. Here's the truth. I've never been contacted. So my work is subject to the public, it's subject to what I've been doing, how I've worked. Say what you want, I never, ever think of suing you. But what is here and from your debate from the replica clearly, you still have Mr. Bacic's protective attitude towards Mr. Karam Ark which is normal. That's your party colleague, who you believed in three, four months ago. It would be amazing for me if I believed in someone three months ago to take a completely different view now that he was a pain in the ass. So, then I would have just recognized myself in the words of Butts and shrubs if I had the wind blowing if I had been taught to squeeze. I would act the same way in that situation, but it's impossible to function unless the Bridge trusts you in that way. That's what I say all the time. So it's not normal for you to have protective...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29447	/The incursion president: Thank you./
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29448	Your attitude towards Karamark.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29449	/The incursion president: I apologize to Representative Maras for the time./
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29450	It's normal...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29451	I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29452	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29453	Thank you. Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29454	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you are in your replica. in their presentation, they said that you disagreed with a large part of the exposure on behalf of Club Bačić, and that it is important to speak freely in the assembly. I'll figure out my replica a little differently. It's going to be a little bit of a question and some claims, so you're going to tell me if that's okay and if you're going to sue me, say, so listen. So you were the secretary of crafts, of small entrepreneurship. You went to Las Vegas, you took with you your secretary and your married godmother who was your advisors at the ministry, you spent 100,000 kuna taxpayers on that 7-day trip, and when you came back and you were no longer a minister you also challenged to colleagues in the Bridge of some similar situation, to us in HDZ a lot of things, the president of her trip. And do you think that's true or false to be sued? Or we should settle it the way you handled it on the Mandate-Immunity Commission when you gave your colleagues to Bul one authority that only priests in Croatia have, which is to rid you of your sin of crime by handling it. Does this mean what I have now said and what is similar to many lawsuits that come to the Mandate-Immunity Commission something that you would sue as false, truth, or you would let yourself be relieved of your sins by fellow Bull's own handling? Here, just one little question so tell me, and is this wedding godfather really your best man and he was busy at the ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29455	I'd pray without tension. Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29456	Thank you very much. First, let me say that what you said is false, and secondly, so you don't get sued because as I would say, you have people who have a certain weight when they say something and those who don't. You belong to these others so he wouldn't sue you and probably wouldn't sue those who have weight because I just said things like that don't touch me at all. People have the right to ask and get answers. Since you're interested in my marital status, I'm in an out-of-marriage community, so I don't have a best man, that's all. So you have to a little bit of faith in the portals that HDZ pays to be a credible parliamentary representative. If they write something, it means the portals that Manikas keeps don't believe. Secondly, I came from the United States, unlike the President, with a contract worth 150 million kuna, which unfortunately has not yet begun to be realized and I am waiting for my colleague Dalic to come here with his debate to ask her to start the story at last. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm gonna say it again and I'm free to call you as much as you want, question how much you want, sue how much you don't want me to have any problems with it, and I can do everything in the way that I think most effectively defend myself, I don't need anyone to take me for protection or anything so that what I said to my colleagues, Bačić, and why I don't agree is that people can speak and speak freely, and whatever they say about me, I'm here in public speaking in front of everyone and I'll never press charges unless it's done, I've filed a complaint, but it was about intentional when people didn't ask me to deny it, but they've announced what was on their minds. And then I filed a lawsuit, but this way, when I have the chance to defend myself in that situation, I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29457	Thank you. For individual participation. ... I'm sorry, we didn't register. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29458	Comrade Maras, you said the following that a normal debate was allowed to take place in the unsavoury scenes would not occur. I ask you what is a normal debate for you, is it that everyone is speaking in this House what they will and whenever they want and beyond the subject and not being warned by the Chairman. For me, it's not like that, I think we all have to follow the rules prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and it applies to all of us equally. You were also in this individual debate more of a bit off topic than in this morning's part when you spoke in front of the club, although this time the president allowed you to speak until the end. And why were you out of the picture? Because you talked all the time about the relationship between the current Bridge and HDZ in this government. I don't know what this really has to do with the removal of immunity that was the subject, so here I think that you and your debate today have contributed to this situation and I believe that these situations will not come up in the future and that we will all contribute to it by applying the prescribed rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29459	The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29460	Dear colleagues, it may have something to do with the subject because it means the case is covered by colleagues from HDZ and Most. So, let's say that's already the first link that's related to the subject. It may matter what part of the coalition that runs this country and what citizens are very interested in seeing how it works. It may have something to do with what the potential mistrust of the partners also causes the work of the Croatian government, so it is all connected. And I absolutely advocate that here in Parliament you can speak of course not insulting others and being polite but you can talk and open topics that you think are important, which is the problem. Even in the matter, if she leans upon what is disputed. Well, it's neither the first nor the last time anyone's been discussing the way I've discussed it, and now you're accusing me of opening up and my debate has led to this situation, and look at these situations, it's going to be a lot of what I'm going to do to you. I'll discuss the way I think it's right, I'll talk about what people have chosen me for, what they want to hear, what they think should be fought for by those who chose me. I can't avoid it. How come it always bothers HDZ? How come no one from the opposition has ever rebelled against the fact that someone has extended the debate? Let's tell me how that's right here every time Mr. Rainer has an enormous number of incursions and trying to limit what the speaker wants to say. So there should not be a special analyst there now to see that it happens solely because of a party that is obviously not in the interest of discussing these topics in front of the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29461	Thank you. And I commend three seconds before the end. As for the debate of counterpart Maras himself, counterpart Maras, if I can repeat it, he believes that any action by any member of the previous government had to do with the functioning of this government so that the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided accordingly so that he believed that we were not away from the topic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29462	Mr. President, I would very much like to debate with you. So, you've hurt Article 232 about holding a session, so I would work very hard with you to debate if I had the opportunity. So now you're making your point that you wrote down nicely while I was saying something and I don't have a chance to answer it. If you want a debate like that, we'll make a deal and we'll sit down nice and have a cup of coffee and we'll debate. But please don't give the president any lessons from the position, please. I don't know if it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, I think it's that you don't give lessons and you don't make conclusions as if you're not the top authority here that's going to taste the debate and then present to us how he saw it. So, it's never been the presidents of the Parliament or those who run the session who haven't done it, so please don't do it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29463	Thank you. I just have two things to point out. The article you called for is the topic of the established agenda, so I don't know what article 232 has to do with it. And the other thing, I just explained, I went to pass on your message so it's not my note that's your message and I asked you in the previous question, my colleague wasn't clear why you were so far away from it and I just got close to her. And I asked you nicely at the end of your presentation whether you connected certain actions to the functioning of the current government, you said yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29464	But how am I supposed to explain to you now why I said it like that? So, you're here, look, we're all sitting here in the Assembly, there's 151, you're sitting in your position as one and you have a dominant position during the debate. Don't put yourself in that position to give us lessons, that's not right, that's what I'm telling you. If you want, I can explain it to you now. Are you giving me the opportunity to explain that to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29465	Let's do it for a while. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29466	So that's why I'm thinking. Thank you very much. Here's what led to me having to explain what I was going to say because you don't understand. So that's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29467	Mr. Maras, don't put words in my mouth. I asked you to explain briefly, I didn't say I didn't understand. I'd like you to explain for a moment, I've given you freedom. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29468	Mr. Petrov, what are you the President of the Croatian Parliament in a coalition with HDZ that you think is different from Mr. Bačić, Mr. Jandrokovic and all those sitting on behalf of HDZ in that government that Mr. Karamarko has committed criminal acts? They don't mean it. So, pull out the analogy of that, you don't believe in them, in their judgment, and that's why it's not an effective government, and that's why I think it's a burden for future work. Is that a problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29469	Thank you. Your interpretation, now just to sum up, I passed your interpretation on to my colleague and that's it. I don't see why I've shared my remarks, I've passed your remarks on to her. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29470	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At first, I must point out that what I am about to say has nothing to do with most of the present colleagues sitting here today and most of the party members who may be able to identify themselves. Here is primarily a message to the political elites who have conducted various various privatisation robberies and have passed other laws today that rock the state. Today we are talking about a possible trial of two members of the Croatian Parliament, the first among equals and my little ones, and for this reason he would address himself in this way. And let it be spoken, and let it be judged, we are a democratic state. Well, we're not sacred cows, but before I express my final position on this issue, let me refer a few questions to the Croatian public. Should those who have robbed Croatia of conversion and privatisation continue to be tried today? Should we judge those who, through pre-primary settlements, have embarrassingly ironed their debts to tycoon associates? Should the public shake the story of how the elite one then Croatian democratic community began selling Croatian telecoms and the elite two then SDP completed it? Or imagine the coincidence that the elite two SDPs and their government started selling to the INA and the elite one HDZ ended it? Should those who have located, identified, arrested and prosecuted a well-known hero of the Homeland War? But also those who listen to this insidiously delight in thinking that it was forgotten that they had just opened a hunt for Gotovina, General Gotovina, and were embarrassingly offering the traitors a reward of 350,000 kuna? Of course, you should, but while applying against the pack of Croatian... They carefully guard the locked drawers of the institution in a hurry to judge two people who came from the province to the metropolis in the hope that they can make this country better, fairer and fairer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, let the institutions do their job but don't let anyone think that some lawsuits and lawsuits will put me out of my passion for fighting, for better, fairer and fairer Croatia, Croatia for which I started fighting at the age of 19, for which I fight here, and I won't stop for the last beat of my heart because there is a fire. The more you shut them down, the stronger they burn. In the end, I'd say I'm calling on all those who were supposed to protect national interests to press charges against me. I will be proud of that because what I do, I do everything in my conscience and in the protection of national interests. Because of those who robbed resources at the state, local level and for that reason I joined the Croatian politics, so I had already had many trials for both Auto Transport Sinj and many others, and for trying to put the mafia's dangerous waste past the river Cetina and numerous other trials. I'm not afraid to be tried because really when we see our judiciary as wonderful, our DORH is so brilliant, our Constitutional Court, which has been appointed here two-thirds of the world as great, there's no doubt they'll judge me quickly. But indeed, we have seen that in the arbitration process we have no evidence that anyone is convicted of all the robberies that have been done to our people for which the young are leaving. By judgment of me if you take my mandate, immunity I ask you to vote seriously once again to take my immunity and I truly trust the Croatian judiciary that they will do their job quickly and effectively and condemn me. I didn't say one word to Tomislav Karamark because everything I did and said again, no matter how the media transmitted, I don't care at all. I asked the Committee for Conflict of Interest to do its job and I'm sorry it wasn't done when INA was talking about "white nights", giving 25 plus 1 shares to MOL where they took over management rights. I'm sorry that later on, during Sanader, someone didn't raise their throats and protect their national interests. Also in the telecoms that we handed over to the Germans HDZ began then, the government with 35%, and when the driver Gotovina was called, she sold 16% of the shares during Racan's government, so he became TCOM German and owner. Deutsche com. These are the facts of truth. And I'm really inviting them to sue me because someone has to be convicted. So imagine what would be the advantage over Croatia at world arbitration if it convicted someone. Here, you have a man. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues to take my immunity. Here, please. So, I'll be brief with the conclusion. Everything I have done in the past term has led to elections, not my 12 colleagues, I am proud of them, I wanted to overrule them, and this has caused for the first time for the protection of the national interests of parliamentary elections. I'm proud of my 12 colleagues, and I'm proud to be with them at that historic moment because until then, they were all really on the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29471	Thank you, Agent Buljo. A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29472	Your Honor. Dear colleague Bulj, I had a debate this morning and I said that I understand your irony in which you are asking to be convicted in order for the absurd to be complete, but I said that I believe that MPs must have freedom of speech to warn about irregularities, as I did this morning in the case of telecommunications that you now mention to Deutsche Telekom and the way these rights have been handed over and what that Deutsche Telekom is doing. But now in one conversation here in the halls of parliament, I've learned that you're not the first man to seek his immunity. I've been going to court for a few months now, and I didn't even know that no matter how sad I was before I was a parliamentary representative's job that I had the right to use that parliamentary immunity. I've been sued by my colleague here by Parliament's Ranko Ostojić. And regardless of what I have the right to appeal to immunity, I, like you, will not use it because I am sad before the citizens gave me confidence even before I became a parliamentary representative. And I want to prove my innocence in court. But I do believe that as Parliamentarians, when citizens give us confidence that we must be protected by parliamentary immunity and that we have the right and that it gives us a certain freedom to warn us of irregularities as he said in his debate with fellow Maras. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29473	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29474	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoi, it is so much in the state of absurdity that perhaps the Republic of Croatia should add absurd. However, too many lives have fallen in this country and too many people are not among us who in the Homeland War have given their lives, and also through history for free and democratic Croatia. But it's sad and the fact is how much of it is in drawers. Well, here's to my Sinj, I personally filed criminal charges for the first robbery of privatisation, money for the Cetin Province's defence weapon in 91st year. And now you, such as lift up the empty towers, are now the rich, now they're the state's attorney's office, out-of-date, not out-of-date. It's a disaster, it's a disaster. So look who these empires are for the sake of blood, because of this blood of these people, and I really ask that you, all who are traitors to me, repeat another Croatian national interest while defending your country, they robbed and they continued today and they are protected in all segments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29475	/The Intruder President: Representative Bulj./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29476	I'm asking for my immunity. It's my right. Even at the International Court of Arbitration, we had no evidence of a verdict that was a power of power and the Constitutional Court brought down against the interests of the Croatians. So we have a man named by the Croatian government in Geneva who voted against Croatian interests. Well, someone has to be convicted. Well, maybe there's that possibility of all the robberies being sued. In this way, Croatia is the most corrupt justice and absurd country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29477	Thank you. Representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29478	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Bulj, there has been an all-time thesis that trust is one of the main drivers of economic development in Croatia and the functioning of the government, so I would ask you, for the last 25 years, we have had governments that have had each other's unspeakable trust. What do you think a coalition partner three years ago had so much trust in the Minister of Agriculture that he didn't react to his actions or actions would the state budget be so damaged as it now says he's damaged?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29479	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29480	I call on the minister to sue me for evicting 50,000 people from the Slavonia of our peasants, which is why now the empty Slavonia has gone to the pocket of the tycoon and not the small OPGs. But it wasn't a coalition partner that raised his voice, and the bridge would raise his voice. There were elections, extraordinary elections, at which point those who now call us in the coalition were literally lost the elections they were supposed to win because if before they were the worst government and when there was no government, we had the best results in Croatia, when there was no government. So much for the management system in Croatia. And I also ask that the minister who was a farm seems to me Mr. Jakovina to sue me and him for what is not in Slavonia... EAGF funds from the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29481	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29482	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I'm glad you're determined to proceed, etc. to speak openly what you think and what is in your heart, believing in what you say. The only thing I don't think I have is what to appeal to, but when we go back twenty years, we can't always call people who weren't much at the time or even know the same thing as you with situations like INA 2000 or 2001 or HT because that way someone might say that you were in HDZ when it was the privatisation of the 1990s, right? So that's what someone might say means that you were in the HDZ in the '90s and you didn't object against that criminal privatisation that was criminal, they cleaned up everything they could, people were driving on the road in most cases, very few of them came out stronger from privatisation than what got into it, so let's go from that side to the assumption that we here want to do well and we want to fight for some things and we don't want to go back 20 years in the past because you may not have been in a situation to react and I won't do it, and here's the first time I'm going to say it for the first time about the privatisation and you because I know that you had absolutely nothing to do with it, so keep talking and don't ask for you to take off your immunity because I think you have a sense that you have freedom of speech, no matter what you're not afraid of removing immunity. But what I've been saying all day has nothing to do with what you said or had to do with immunity but it has to do with a purely political logic. If you don't trust someone, you can work together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29483	Thank you. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29484	Mr. Maras, I'd like you to make a little arrangements. You're connecting irrevocably. Yeah, I started the HDZ, and I'm not ashamed of it, and I was an ordinary member, never on the list, just on my independent list in the fight of that moment, an ordinary member. When I saw what this was all about, I was never in any body, and I am proud of those times that I founded that party in democratic processes that happened, but the biggest robbery was also in war, privatisation and war profiting since 2000. Have you ever compared the debt of the Croatian state, when the most looting and selling were the most growing debt? And I invite you to sue me. I call upon those who voted in favour of Mr. Maras' prenuptial settlement, you voted in favour of a pre-nuptial settlement. Please sue me, all of you sue me. ... Because it's a bigger robbery than privatisation itself, that's where you helped your associates, that help your associates. [[You can't hear a hack from a bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29485	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29486	Please, Mr. President, finish. I beg the people who led this country and who managed this country to sue me, someone has to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29487	Agent Bulj, today we're not talking about your application to be sued but about removing immunity from you for a particular person's suit. I can allow certain freedoms for you to express the context of the whole story but I'd ask if that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29488	No, I don't. I'm asking him to sue me and vote me to take away my immunity. And yet again, I invite you from the SDP to sing a song called "White Nights, Black Ways". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29489	Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29490	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, you asked us to take off my immunity in a really very emotional performance, you said those very words. I won't vote in madness to remove your immunity. Why? You did not insult Mr. Karamark, neither you nor your colleague Petrov that you told him that he was a donkey or something like that, you insulted him for the functions you, a colleague of Petrov and him, so it is the highest functions in Croatian politics. And what I want to stress again, you mention privatisation, the big robbery that really happened. So we must not forget that all Croatian governments at the time until the 1990s, so after this government of Ivo Sanader, the Croatian government signed contracts with MOL, not Mr Ivo Sanader sued him. Croatia, this is where MOL is now being pulled out, the Croatian government, then the Croatian Parliament established an investigative commission. At the time, the HDZ opposition does not want to make a joint decision. Of course we don't even have arguments in Geneva then. After that, let me also mention this to the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund for the sale of shares to the same MOL. And in the end comes the Croatian judiciary which I am now wondering if he could, we always call the Croatian judiciary. Based on all that was on the table, could it have had a different effect on this arbitration procedure? And the Constitutional Court eventually brought down Mr. Sanader's verdict. We're coming to the beginning. So we're talking about institutions here, the functions we perform during our mandates, and in that time we need to be protected, we need to have immunity. After what happens, but while we're here, we have to have immunity and I will never vote against or for the removal of your immunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29491	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29492	I'd agree with you if it wasn't just Ivo Sanader or someone else that I'm not naming people right now. I didn't mention Tomislav Karamark once at all, because then I asked the Commission to do the same for both the prime minister and the first vice president and then the Prime Minister of God Petrov and all ministers. And that's what I'm looking for today. You're here. It's not just them. Of course, it's a system. So imagine how much of it is now in the drawers, that no one is responsible for the INA. No verdict That's it. She was a powerful woman, but the Constitutional Court collapsed. [[- A bogeyman.]] Well, someone has to be convicted in this country for all crime. Well, I'm calling you because it's not only those leaders, it's someone else who signed off on it, and they're going to press charges. Here's my case, against me or against one of us. Against us who came a year ago from the province here among the political elite, and it's not my first time I've been tried. I fought at a local level against a variety of malfeasances. I mentioned Auto Transport, the disposal of dangerous waste from the mafia where Minister Zmajlović – I am sorry he is not here – well aware of what they wanted, what they wanted. They don't have a problem poisoning Cetina. They are not interested in resources, they are interested in money and their interest, and they are not interested in the future of the Croatian people and the young man. And for that, please also, Mr. Sagar, feel free to vote for the removal of immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29493	Representative Tomislav Sauch, reporting for the replica,
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29494	Fellow Bull, no pasaran. We won't give you up and we'll never vote to take off your immunity. Your silence would be a sin for Croatian democracy, for this home. You are the only member of this house who is able to tell those who... go as they go, which is in this case HDZ, while being with them in such a nice coalition and holding their stand every Friday when votes are voted both humbly and humbly for them. And your i.e. Your words that caused Mr. Karamark's lawsuit are too bad they're in place and it's too bad they didn't make you think about your position and that you've changed that relationship with HDZ before. A party doesn't make one man. The client is a client. He chooses one or the other, so you have HDZs one zero, two zeros, three zeros, three, two, like operating systems on your cell. Now this is me thinking HDZ four zeros. And you've decided that this new version of the HDZ software is good enough for you, and that despite the fact that their former leader whom they so chose with such a great majority and for the first time, and the second time to sue you and that you do not respond otherwise than here now with this requirement that we remove your immunity. But we don't think of that. The only thing that doesn't go in my head is why you keep putting yourself in a position to be such a hypocrite and standing on their side every Friday. Get rid of it. Be yourself...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29495	/The incursion president: Thank you./
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29496	Faithful to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29497	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29498	I'm sorry the people in the election didn't recognize you, mostly the genius of Minister Maras and his work, and since you didn't get more mandates, I'm really sorry. And most of all, by comparing you to yourself who I have an independent list from the local board to the city of Sin. You, whom Milanovic has enthroned, must build a monument for Zoran Milanovic. I was not enthroned by anyone. I am grateful to the Bridge for taking me on their list, but Bozo Petrov did not enlist me in Sinj for neither the councilman nor my list. You're stuck, you know. You're like a kingdom. Social Democrats is something else. ... Social democracy is something else. [[You don't understand.]] It's not about what you say in World War II. Social democracy is life. I live in the country with people who don't have what they want and who live off their work, it's social democracy. And I beg of you, right here from you that you along with Mr. Grbin really likes to sing Thompson's songs I saw that he does it well, mainly Chavoglav to sing together let Mr. Petrovic Sinisa be your conductor, may also be Zoran Milanović, so sing Black Nights, white paths. So you know what was done when the hands were raised for a pre-determined settlement? You know what... So I'm asking you to vote against me. [[You don't understand.]] Here, please vote to remove the immunity. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29499	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Panenic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29500	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I will return a little to exactly what you are most proud of, which is that you defended the Croatian state, that you fought back then. But what did you fight for? Not only for the integrity of the Croatian state, but also for those who have fought for this country and also for those who have fought against this country, and we have abolized them and should be grateful to us and they live with us today. But who to you, did any of them sue you for calling someone that they tried to drive out the Croatian people, that they tried to build a great Serbian state and that you told them you were a Chetnik. Did anyone sue you? I didn't hear. And this, too, is why I'm saying this request that you're going to, if you've driven someone out of Croatia, not only did you put certain people where they belong, you've set up those who are fighting for Croatia and those who are fighting against Croatia. And is it even understandable to you that someone is going to you means from that position now to sue you. What are we supposed to do? Should we drive Mira Bulj out of Croatia? No, I don't. Miro Bulj fought 91st for this Croatia, fought for ideals, fought for all these years and those who do not need to be happy to live in this country and you must be here to fight for all those who have the courage to come out to say something publicly, for those who do not have the courage to find a model through you to say it and of course what we all have to look for a way for what we do not know how to present it to the Croatian public and for this reason you should be here and you should not be and should not fight in some courts where some justice is sought for which the best circumstances are spoken and the state we have in the state that this justice was happening and for this reason Miro Bulj is an advocate who is fighting for justice and for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29501	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29502	Yes, the Homeland War was done fairly by defenders to Croatia and handed over to the political elites to govern the Croatian state. Many have left their lives. And when it started with the arrest and the location of the i.e. ... The speaker doesn't understand./... the awards where our heroes are to court some European officials that we allow today even if Serbia judges us Croatian defenders to be jurisdiction, it has never happened in history, we have our own blood of our comrades, we have to fight but I am saddened that in Geneva there is no verdict for enemy alienation where both, one and the other governments participated, not the people here all the parliamentary representatives, that there is no judgment that the Constitutional Court... It makes me sad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And someone has to be convicted of all the robberies. Because of these people, because of the young people who are leaving. Well, in the last 15 years, the mountain is a demographic image, you can't hear a child's cry in our undeveloped regions, in your Slavonia, in my Dalmatian Zagora, in Lica, in the Gorski Kotar, so the mountain is a picture but during all the conquerors in the last 300 years. No people, no children. It is not what numerous Croatian defenders fought for and gave their lives. We must continue to fight and call on all people of good faith to join in politics and to fight for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29503	I don't think it's necessary to repeat more and more that you're really sticking to the subject because I'm going to need someone after this to explain what your presentation and specific questions have to do with this topic that we're discussing today. Grmoja's representative reported to the Bridge Club for the closing word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29504	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! This debate on removing the immunity of fellow Bulju and you president has tried to turn into a farce in which it was intended to show that what Mr. Karamark's suit means now is against you two that it has something to do with the functioning of this government so that at the end of the day, colleagues of Maras would conclude when a colleague of Bulj began to present the sins of the SDP around white nights, about telecommunications, about everything that happened to him to conclude that he would not go back into the past, not us who are sitting here and who we are not guilty of, do not connect us with that, and he connects the meaning of a man with this government. And then when I put it out, he says you're defending HDZ. No, I'm not defending anyone. We're in this government, we're going to see how it works, we have our views, you don't like it, you say it's instability for Croatia, and I'm telling you it might be good if there were such a thing as representatives of the Bridge of the 12. I haven't proven myself yet, I'm just here in Parliament, those 12 bridges that have refused to make any provision just to stay in that government with Karamark. They did not want to stay, and they showed that they were principled, that they had an attitude, that what they said was not only words but also works. Maybe it bothers you, maybe it bothers you because then it's a blow to your credibility because then you're asked to do the same thing behind what you're saying to stand and do. But you can't wash and tell me we're not to blame. You were sitting in the government with Mr. Jacobin. You didn't warn about the encouragement of what your colleague was talking about. No, I've never heard you say it's wrong, it's not good. So it might be good if this SDP government was unstable, that Gordana Marasa couldn't somehow get in and get in, but Gordan Maras nothing, he goes to Las Vegas, doesn't mention Jakovina and encourages.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29505	I'd like you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29506	Okay, I'll be back on the subject. So, my colleague Bulj, I respect your call to remove your immunity so that someone will answer, so that irony and absurdity will be complete but I repeat again, for the sake of freedom of speech of the parliamentary representatives so that I may warn of irregularities and my colleagues here too, I will not do so. I said this morning what you've done for Croatia, it's not true what my colleague Saucha says every Friday he watches you vote on the click, it's not true at all. For the key things this government has brought, you haven't voted for them. So, you didn't vote...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29507	/Intruder President: Please, no trespasses./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29508	You didn't vote for the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29509	I'd like to pray without any trespasses.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29510	Positive or negative fellow Maras, it shows that Miro Bulj is a man of attitude. And you weren't the man with the attitude when Mr. Jacobine's malfeasances took place. To you it was positive, negative, I don't know how, but the fact it was confirmed by colleague Pernar that Miro Bulj was not an actor. The man's not an actor. A man's attitude was liked, the lift it may have once made us nervous to all here in the Parliament, perhaps to some in the ruling majority, but he is so and no one can deny him or take it. No one can challenge him and take away his honesty, the fact that when everyone was silent and nodded with their heads that he was Sanader on a son's piano called a traitor to whom the end would come, which is why he was expelled from Sinjska Alka. The fact is, it's a man who's been tried several times for standing by the people. The fact is that Miro Bulj is a man who has shown his courage in the war, which is up to every house – he has not watched because someone of the SDP is calling you here – but he has not seen in his village who is the SDP's, who is the HDZ's. He knows well, and a colleague of Pupovac who never came to that village, knows that he has brought his neighbours of Serbian nationality to every house, but is not his own. It shows what kind of man Miro Bulj is and you can't take that away from him. You can take his immunity, but here we all agreed it wouldn't be good, but no one can take it from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29511	Gordan Maras, the representative, answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29512	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya said in his debate a whole series of sentences that can't connect to each other at all with logic. But here's what I'm about to say, which specifically moved me to report for the replica. So he first compared something from 17 years ago and about three months ago. I mean, even that superficial observer can't put it in the same rank because by that logic we could now refer to what happened in the Middle Ages as some correlation compared to what happened three years ago. So it's just not connected. I just said that neither you nor I have any information about what was going on back then. What happens now is we have information, and you and I. So, at this point, we can talk relevant, and what happened 20 years ago, we can't. And that's why I said we shouldn't go back to those times that we don't have information about, but we read in the paper. Now we have information and now we can discuss certain matters. The second thing, which is really curiosity should remain remembered, so Mr. Grumoja praised, says: "The key things brought by this government, Miro Bulj, voted against." So it's like praise, so what this government has brought as a budget, the tax reform Miro Bulj voted against, and it's good that he voted so. So, really, so the paradox of this government is amazing. I'd like people to hear that the Advocacy Club praises its MP who voted against the documents their coalition has brought. And it's like a positive, and that's at least more like it for us. You know what would have happened if there were more like it? There wouldn't be a lot of them. Because if you had all voted against these key documents, probably most would not have been established, there would be no government or budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29513	The President's incursion: Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29514	So let's concentrate a little when you say some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29515	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29516	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29517	Excuse me. Here, since counsel Gordan Maras allows.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29518	I think I made myself clear, so I looked back on my colleague Sauch who said that Miro Bulj voted as a majority every Friday. I didn't mean to characterize Mira Bulja's actions positive or negative. I was just talking about how no one can argue that a man has his own attitude. And when I talk about the Bridge, we won't support any criminal decision. I don't think it's a budget or tax reform, so we've also corrected it in one part, so I don't think it's a criminal thing like selling "White Night", like pre-fashion deals, like the Minister Jakovina's incentive means sharing tycoons, not small OPGs. That's the kind of thing I'm talking about, my colleague Maras, and none of these people here who sits with me are gonna back up. You supported it. I don't know how you don't understand it or how you can't understand it. But I've been explaining it to you since this morning, and you can't figure it out. Today, I can only explain to myself that you are a little confused today, and otherwise me and my colleague Bulj have a very high opinion of you and that we are constantly trying to convince the public that you are one of the best ministers in this country's history.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29519	Representative Tomislav Panenic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29520	Thank you very much. I think you just opened one key thing in your presentation, which is when Miro Bulj was a simple member of HDZ at the time, when he raised his voice when he stood up he shouldn't have been sued, but literally blew him up by it, kicked him out of the party, kicked him out of the Alkar society, show everyone an example that someone doesn't need to raise his voice that it doesn't pay off, that it does you harm. However, Miro Bulj, not only Miro Bulj, but also his colleague Bozo Petrov, when they saw that certain people were doing damage to Croatia, that they were doing damage to our arbitration team and that they had personal benefit, they raised their voice. Miro raised his voice in the Parliament, God raised his voice in the government. We also stood as the Bridge Ministers with the Deputy Prime Minister at the time, you are here as agents standing by Mira Bulja. So what now? Now you need to show again, no, you can't do that, you can't act like that, we'll meet you and show again that a little man no matter where he comes from has always got a stick over his head that will show him where his place is. And because of this, this procedure will go in that direction, it is not a pleasure that Mr. Karamarko may be a better man after that, but only to show by example that everyone is afraid of a voice raised because if they come to court they will be financially punished, they will suffer the consequences and what is worst will show and in fact you are wrong, and what kind of trial we have, in the end, and those who are normal, honest come out as thieves, come out as people who have lost more desire to fight for this Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29521	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29522	Your Honor! As for my colleague Bulj, I don't think he was expelled from HDZ when he said this about Sanader, in 2000, when Sanader was elected president, he broke up everything with HDZ and was expelled from the Alkar society, or banned from participation in Sinjska alca when Sanader said that in 2007 and that ban on participation in the stakes and today is valid. And then it was those who threw him out because he was fighting for a record set up by General Gotovina that the same people were waiting for General Gotovina. That's what's actually sad about everything. And what you said, I don't think this is Mr. Karamark's attempt to get some satisfaction, this is an attempt to make him somewhat politically rehabilitated, to basically say that he was right when he claimed that we should withdraw from arbitration and that Mr. Petrov was wrong. No statesman will ever claim if we're in some international arbitration that we're standing badly, and Mr. Petrov was absolutely right there. But what is sad and just now revealed and we didn't know that Croatia did not do everything it could because of Prime Minister Milanovic, that it did not initiate the dispute at the Trade Court because of the takeover of management rights, is my information that the Minister of Economy, whom I personally do not sympathise Minister Vrdoljak, has advocated, and that it has stalled under the influence of Siniša Petrovic, former Prime Minister Milanovic, and it is unfortunate that we have not done the arbitration work properly, that our witnesses did not come there to testify, that this situation also happened in order to destroy Sanader's verdict. Obviously, many in Croatia have responded that we do not get this arbitration and you are not just looking at HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29523	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy's representative. A representative of Tomislav Sauch called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29524	This time I was faster than Maras. I wanted to talk about something else, but I'm going to make a connection to what my colleague Grumo said about these insinuations about former Prime Minister Milanovic. Set up a commission. You are part of the ruling majority. These are very difficult qualifications. I'm for this man, i.e. I worked with him as one of my closest associates for a very long time. If someone was a Croatian patriot, if someone kept the interest of this country, if someone risked everything to work for this country it was Prime Minister Milanovic, and if you have this kind of innuendo you say your information about where that information came from, it became a "modus operandi" you very much like to throw yourself with some kind of information that you received from somewhere and from your ranks comes the Minister of the Interior, so... The documents came. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, if you insinuate that Milanovic had some kind of private interest or that he hitched or in any way damaged the Republic of Croatia in that procedure that we did everything we could to be in this country's best interest, then please a colleague or file a criminal complaint against Mr Milanovic, or I think it is even more effective to submit a proposal, we will support you, let's set up a parliamentary commission and we will investigate everything until the last detail. Now let me go back to this topic this little time I have left. As for this request from Mr. Bull to remove his immunity, I hope this is the last time we see a farce like this and a play in Parliament. So we have criteria when it comes to the DORH's application being lifted immunity, when it comes to private lawsuits no. And it's not about you, Mr. Grmoy, no matter how much you'd like to talk about some things, which is sad that you've supported that power, but it's about this House because if you'd accepted that criteria that you're standing up for now, then every representative would be under pressurised by the media to lift his own immunity. It's not your right, and we won't agree to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29525	Mr. Sauch's representative, thank you. The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29526	Mr. President! My responsibility is not certain because Croatia did not use all the instruments it had, I am responsible for it. You obviously don't follow the media and what's been written about it the last few days. These are not the claims that I make, so these are the claims made in the media that Croatia has not initiated a dispute at the Trade Court about management rights and I am asking you here and you answer why this is not done if Zoran Milanovic is such a great patriot and if you are such a great patriot. Can't, of course you can't listen to me, the truth hurts. But the truth hurts you, Mr. Sauch, but that's not my problem, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29527	I would ask the MPs before we go to the final word of the SDP Club and Gordan Maras to be aware that all communication within the Assembly starts from them that if you have a reference that this was today the farce farces have been made today by everyone then in the Assembly, take care of it. The communication always comes from you, the debate starts from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29528	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not think that this was a farce, Croatian citizens have seen who performs, what he thinks, which topics he wants to talk about, which bothers me that we can discuss freely, regardless of the attempts of some to do so and as much as Mr. Bulj, you haven't said anything but Mr. Bulj wants to take off his immunity we won't vote for it, we will vote for the old practice because as Mr. Bulj loves the song at one point it seemed to me that he could sing "Judge me, judge me" as much as he advocated removing immunity. However, we would like to retain the opportunity for MPs to deal with issues in this Assembly that they think are of the public interest and that they can do so for at least the duration of the term, absolutely during the term of the parliamentary term, without thinking about whether or not they will have to have problems with private prosecutors who will then seek certain satisfaction. And I think that practice has to continue that way. What I'm trying to say here means I don't support those who think that as soon as the debate doesn't take place the way they imagined the word farce, the play, the stage, this thing fits, because all of what we've said here today, as the President of the Parliament has said, is coming from us, and I think it's a good thing that the citizens have seen who's up for what standards they're up for, and who's running the country from today to tomorrow, not knowing what they're going to do, starting with his partner being incorrect and unfair, and that he's going to be blocking both his partner and making certain decisions, and how our government works. So, this topic today was an excellent opportunity to show how our government works or how our government doesn't work, how Prime Minister Plenkovic is lost yesterday and more where he is around INA, how he's going to buy INA, whether or not he's going to have the support of the Most because he simply has to listen to his coalition partner's views from television and, in parallel, someone is explaining to the protection of national interests that he's complicated the matter to the extreme limit and that he's simply working with someone he doesn't think is correct and in this case they've even fallen harder words that they're primarily former Deputy Prime Minister Karamarko criminals, or interesting lobbyes who wanted to do some things. On the other hand, the Croatian public must know that this will probably continue, that the problems we are entering are not simple, that it is not easy to implement all these things that we have announced, that the question is what will happen around both INA and HEP and about the Waste Management Plan and all other things that unfortunately HDZ and Most are not able to bring together. What I will point out once again is that I think it is particularly important, it is important that this Assembly does not prohibit saying MPs at no time, the rules should apply but cannot be interpreted autonomously, determine what is related and what is not related and how much it is related to the subject, and we will fight for it to the very end. And I hope that we will also have support for this in the public who will certainly not welcome the way the session took place today, which is what those who led the session are responsible for. I must point out that in the second part of the session you see the difference between what happened earlier in the afternoon and that I am convinced that the debate can be conducted correctly and that there are no incidents if those who do not want to do so themselves and I think that in this case the Croatian public is clear whether HDZ does not want such a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29529	Thank you. Before I just say for the replica, I must say as President of the Parliament that I will always fight for the Rules of Procedure and to hold plenary sessions in the way that it is intended for the Rules of Procedure, so that if the person who exposes or in any way uses his opportunities in this Assembly and strays from the subject will not have the opportunity to speak, there are other mechanisms as he can. So I would hate for them to get mixed up at one point in the freedom of speech from the mechanisms how to use it in the assembly because if we do it in any way and without the way the Rules of Procedure predicts it, then we will have no quality debate. Representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29530	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's what I need to hear from you today at the end of this debate. So, I often feel ashamed to feel in this House, and today I especially felt this shame because today, all of us sitting here today have earned or didn't earn the wrong expression, we will get 100 euros from Croatian citizens sitting here today, and today we have to watch someone who won't earn 100 kuna by digging canals. So, we have one rule here for 25 years in this House, so when it comes to a private lawsuit, there's no removing immunity as said by a colleague of Sach, when it's a request from the DORH or some state institution, then immunity is removed. We spent all day here today as masochists talking about some things. He mentioned that he was in court. So, all of you know or most of you know what I've been through for the last two years and I've been going through courts with some people I've never seen or heard from in my life. And this morning I didn't hear at the beginning of the assembly session because I was in court for another occasion, but I never, ever thought to ask the Parliament for immunity unless it belonged to me, if it doesn't belong to me. So, for the end. Comrade Miro, I support you in everything you say, you are a voice of reason sometimes a little more fire than it would be normal or necessary, but I can only end up telling you “welcome to the club. ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29531	Parliamentary representative Marija Jelkovac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, you're a little contradictory to yourself. Now, in the final word, you said it was for the rules to be respected, but you're not meant to be autonomously and each of us interprets the width and distance from the subject. That's exactly what you're doing. You think most of us who stick to the subject here turn out to be a little bit more stupid, and individuals who don't follow and constantly abuse and break the rules about it are a little smarter than us. You know, I think that's why the chairman who runs the session and who's going to decide whether one of us overstepped, went off-the-book or not, and that we all need to respect that. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29533	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29534	Yeah. Well, I mean, you have one hand right, but just before I told you. So there's a big difference between this morning's session and the noon session. So there's a way for a session to look like this, not what it looked like in the morning. It's just a question of how you take her. And that's what I've been calling for. So, nothing was going on any different than in the morning. Now we don't have any drama. In the morning, we had what we had. Here, it's my only appeal. And as for the width of the debate, no matter what the situation is about. I have deviated here from this simple lesson by Fred that not because there is a great political interest of the Croatian public to hear it. So, when there's a situation like this in the future, I'm going to do it again like I did now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29535	Representative Ljubica Lukačić answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29536	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Maras, I am convinced that after today's debate, the Croatian public will no longer be sure of what we discussed here today. Because as I told you this morning, you and many other MPs who have been arguing here today in a completely wrong, absolutely wrong direction. That's why there's a Rules of Procedure to stick to the subject. You, as I told you, are a longtime representative, and surely you know it very, very well. It would be good if at least here you were at the end of the closing word a little bit more stuck to the subject than it was all over today. It would be good for us all to stick to the Rules of Procedure and for you to set an example for the new MPs. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that after all day, I really don't think our public will know what we're talking about here today. And as for the strategically important issues that you have discussed here today, INA, HEP, etc. You don't have to worry about that. So people who are in power of both HDZ and Most are certainly capable enough to know how to agree or decide correctly on strategic issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29537	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29538	I agree with you that a lot of people are probably confused. Although I believe the messages have come to them. If nothing, that situation when speaking has led to the end of the session. It is a very important message to see that the inequality of the conduct of the session of the Croatian Parliament can lead to the excess when parliamentary representatives are not spoken. So this is one message that I would say over the subject of great importance and perhaps in the future because of this situation today we will have a different practice that will not lead to such situations. So, if that happens, it's already some use. Secondly, I'm sure the people who listened today heard the message I wanted to send that people who were in the coalition are accusing each other. So, some are slanderers, others are criminals. So that's also a very important message for me to have people hear today. And thirdly, I'm not sure your thesis is right that I don't have to worry about INA, because HDZ has knowledge, and it's gonna be okay. In 2007, the same thing was the HDZ in position, and in 2009, we had the contract we had. Sanader got it. You and I were MPs in the Parliament. We know how it went. In the end, we had a commission. And that's why I'm a little more emotional about INA because long before Mr. Bulj, so five years before Mr. Bulj, I initiated an investigative committee where Prime Minister Sanader answered questions about all the things that are being shown today and what are the issues of arbitration. So don't have so much faith in Bianca, in some people, no matter what you think they're gonna do, because in the past, it's not exactly what they did.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29539	The President's incursion: Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29540	For example, Minister Maric also participated in talks on the 2009 INA contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29541	Thank you. Representative Maras, thank you. Before we finish today with the plenary session, I will have to warn myself that I will especially strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure. I've already announced it several times. I think enough time has passed, and I think the public should know it in this way and at the moment I'm telling the MPs. I'd like you to conduct an internal debate outside the assembly, respected and respected representatives. I think it's three months long enough for the MPs to get to know the Rules of Procedure. So they know we have to stick to the subject. I would also pray for parliamentary representatives, and that was maybe 10 minutes ago and since this whole day was not a warning, but I will warn when the replica is not referred to the person to whom it should be directed but to another person but I will also warn and of course use the Rules of Procedure. I would really ask all of you and those who are not here today, at this point, not to be prepared for it. I hope I don't have to use the measures used by someone else but if necessary, I'll use them. That's what we do today's work. The session continues on Wednesday. I'm closing the debate. 25. January we continue at 9.30 p.m. with item 6 of the agenda – Proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 67. The session was interrupted at 3:13 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29542	Decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the denying of authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against the representative, Milorad Pupovac. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the I give the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to confirm the decisions, which reads: During the term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against the representatives of Prof. Dr. Milorad Pupovac, at the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Staniša Zarkovic of Virovitica and Nenad Vlahovic of Gareshnica, on the appeal brought to the Municipal Court in Osijek for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(1). Penalty law through 11. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. 114 for, 5 abstentions, 3 against. I find that most votes have confirmed the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. There is now a report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, a request for authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against God Petrov, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision, which reads: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against MPs is denied, God Petrov, at the request of the attorney-in-law Tomislav Karamark, on the appeal brought on 16 September 2016 to the municipal court in Zadar for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law through 11. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over, 116 votes for, 6 abstentions, none against. I find that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And a report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mira Bulja, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision which reads: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Mira Bulj at the request of the attorney-general Tomislav Karamark on the appeal brought on 16 September 2016 to the municipal court in Zadar for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(2). The penalty law of the eleventh. Please engage and vote. 111 votes for, 6 abstentions, 4 against. I find that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29543	Moving to second point: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29544	Thank you, Vice President. If you don't mind, I'd like all three reports and then possibly if there was some debate afterwards. Thank you. At the 12th session held on 2 February 2017, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament addressed the request of the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Nikola Grumoje of MPs in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Nikola Grmoja is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall, after the hearing has been held, take the view of Article 160. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes, for the duration of the parliamentary term of office, shall be denied the authorisation to continue the conduct of the criminal proceedings before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb, against MP Nikola Grumoje under the suit of private prosecutor Ranko Ostojsic for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. A brief explanation. A principled position is taken to grant, upon request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, an authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings, and also a court which conducts the criminal proceedings in order to enable the Constitution and the law to exercise its jurisdiction independently and independently. However, in the case of private prosecutors, we will retain the practice we have so far had not to remove immunity from the MPs. Report number two. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 12th session held on 2 February 2017 the request of the damagees as the subsidiary prosecutor Joza Ostojic of Dubrovnik sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Mara Christic of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for criminal offences against personal freedom, the threat referred to in Article 129(3). Criminal law in connection with Article 38 of the same law. On 19 October 2016, Maro Kristic began acting as deputy representative of Ivan Kovačić and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has been terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. The commission found that the municipal state attorney's office in Dubrovnik had ruled out criminal charges against Mara Kristic, and the damage to the prosecutor, Jozo Ostojic, took over the prosecution without discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 6 votes to propose a next decision to the Croatian Parliament. During the term of office, authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against representative Mara Kristic shall be denied at the request of the damageor as subsidiary prosecutor Joza Ostojic in the case before the Municipal Court of Dubrovnik for the offence against personal freedom, the threat referred to in Article 129(3). Criminal law in connection with Article 38 of the same law. The commission has taken a principled view that at the request of the State's Attorney's Office as an independent and independent not to repeat it, I think the situation is quite clear to all. So even in this case, when it comes to a subsidiary prosecutor, the position of the commission is not to remove immunity. Report under regular number 3. At the 12th session held on 2 February 2017, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Zoran Milanovic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 14. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament puts its parliamentary mandate to rest on 1st March 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed that the MP has the right once during the term of office by submitting a written request to the President of the Parliament to put his mandate on hold, and the commission has found that the conditions laid down for the start of the term of office of representative Zoran Milanovic have been met. Following the debate, the Commission shall be based on Article 14(1). The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has reached a unanimous decision and proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision to begin the stay of MP Zoran Milanovic with the day of 1 March 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29545	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I propose a united debate on all three points sent by the commission. First individual discussion of colleague Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29546	Thank you very much. Vice President! About the first two points of the Reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission I think it is clear that there is a situation as we have already had several times in this Croatian Assembly. In fact, in this debate, I would like to refer to the third report relating to the appointment of Mr Milanovic, and I would like to use one famous illustration of Delic's commentator: "People of mine, is it possible!" is it possible that we have welcomed and since my memory is served by MP Milanovic in this Assembly for the first and last time on the day of the establishment of the Parliament when he took the oath even to this day more than once. It would have been expected if he had already known that he would not participate in parliament's work nor come here to Parliament that he had put his mandate on hold until at least the end of October, however, he submitted a request to put his mandate on hold with March 1st. Today is the beginning of February, so it is still expected to pay for the month of February. So it's really his right to use the law that way and I'm just wondering if it's moral. For me, it was scandalous precisely because he already knew in the 14th 10th century that he would no longer come as a representative and take part in the work of this Assembly and that he was always exercising his right to pay by forgetting that he had obligations. Of course, it goes to honor Mr Milanovic and your colleagues from the SDP who are his party colleagues and, of course, I assume your court will give its citizens the same opinion as I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29547	Thank you. We have replicas. First up, he's a colleague of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29548	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President! My colleague Jelkovac came to me completely wrong in a place where she thought she would get sympathy from someone because she accused one of coming or not to a session for a few months of which we were all out of the Assembly while forgetting another thing, which is that it was quite a practice in her party that the party president showed up three times in four years here, and most often on the current clock, Mr. Karamarko, probably at that time Mrs. Jelkovac clapped at the Karamark meetings in Karlovac when he came and when thousands of people there gathered but then she didn't mind if someone came or didn't come. We have warned, voters have assessed it and will assess both this action or the activity or inactivity of the parliamentary representative. But you must be consistent, if you objected because you are now objecting to Milanovic, then you should also object to Karamark. I am not going to take a stand on it now, as you have taken it, only asking the MPs for consistency in their views, and the difference between, for example, MP Milanovic and you and what he represents in this House or does not represent 1:50, so the man has received 51 thousand preferential votes to be in parliament and you have received a thousand. So there's this analogy and that difference and probably that now it's being re-chosen between him and you would be 1/50 again so try to keep it I'd say consistency and don't if someone decided to try to collect two points on his departure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29549	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29550	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I'm just being consistent. I want to tell you that I have expressed my position here, and mine is also in relation to what you said about former HDZ President Mr. Karamark, and I also don't think it's as good as I've said here that I find it scandalous that Mr. Milanovic was not in the Assembly from 14.10 to today. Please, you have challenged my mandate here by comparing the number of votes I received from Mr Milanovic, I do not think it is correct. I wonder if Mr. Milanovic would get that number of votes in the next election, given what he did, that four and a half months would receive a salary without any day being here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29551	Thank you. The next replica of Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelkovac, to be clear at first, I am an absolute opponent of the practice of every one who does not come to work and receives undeserved salary, not only in the case of Zoran Milanovic but also other colleagues and colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament and has them, he is not the only one, he may be one of the most prominent and most attractive cases at the moment. But let's apply the same criteria for everything and be credible. You asked my people if it was possible for Zoran Milanovic to finally leave the Parliament after a few months, as he announced. It is possible that he also announced that he will be in the Croatian Parliament for a while and that he will freeze his mandate after electing a new president and new SDP leadership. And instead of these verses, actually which you have applied, "My people, is that possible?""Mice Dusanović seems to me Young Delic, I apologize. [[Intruder: Mladen Delic.]] Young Delic, I think the better lyrics that would suit you would be the Bebeks: "What did I need this for?" because you from HDZ are the last ones to ask the question of how responsible or irresponsible it is to receive wages and not to come to work. If he had mentioned the Bridge, the Living Wall, anyone in this Assembly, I wouldn't have said a word, but you who were active when your President Karamarko received his salary for four years and didn't show up here in the Croatian Parliament any, here I am now Googled, no media statement from you to fence yourself from it and to scrutinize it I didn't find. So you kept your mouth shut and now you're trying to score at it. And I repeat again, they are the same for me in this case both Karamarko and Milanovic, but you are the last of the HDZ to have the right to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29553	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29554	Comrade Voter, it's absolutely clear to me that you're defending your president this morning, but I must warn you, obviously you've replaced me with someone. I didn't sit in this House when Mr Karamarko was a representative, I was in HDZ, I said for a while that I was judging and that it was my personal position and the lack of Mr Karamark and also Mr Milanovic's failure, but you can't compare them to the same extent. Mr. Karamarko came to this Assembly and Mr. Milanovic came here, took an oath and never showed up again. So he intended to never show up here again in the 14th 10th, and then he still filed for a term of office to stand still with March 1st. What's the date today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29555	Thank you very much. Don't throw it away. The next replica of counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29556	Thank you, Vice President. To calm your tensions down a little bit, my colleagues, I'm not going to attack you, but I just want to point out that your debate really isn't correct, it's not in place, and I don't think you even needed it. As for counterpart Milanovic that he announced that he would leave and now he's gone and you say you weren't. I was in the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament with Mr Karamark who was here seven times in four years, in this Assembly seven times. He spoke three times. It didn't bother you at the time. You've been a HDZ official, you don't have to be an agent in order to say one of your opinions. I did not notice that in Karlovac you called a press conference to express your disagreement with your president, even your then President Plenkovic had the courage when it was seen that Karamarko in a knock down on your Assembly pointed to his irregularities despite anemia, he had courage. You almost beat him there, then after 15 days you chose him president, but brave of him. He's pulling from it today, Benefit. You didn't have that courage in four years to tell me once it's embarrassing as a member of a party whose president doesn't come to work and gets paid every month. But on the other hand, I see your debate suggests that you lack Mr. Milanovic, you miss him. Well, that's how much you all mention him there. I don't know who you're going to mention behind 1.3 more, nonstop. I just want to tell you, it's not right, always look at yourself, sweep first in front of your door and then call someone else. You didn't need this, and you didn't need these things in the 7th session, and you never had a discussion before. This is the first time in the 9th session that we are discussing reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, putting someone's mandate on hold, activating someone's term of office, it's a practice that has never been done because it's a technical issue. But this whole Parliament must have started this assembly wrong, so it has to end that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29557	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29558	Dear colleague, I really can't agree with you that I didn't need this debate. Look, at least here I publicly said that I was condemning our former president here in the Parliament as much as he was but he was, at the time he was president of the party who had other duties and was on the ground but he was here in the Assembly, taking part in the debates. The difference with this situation is that Mr Milanovic has already made a decision on 14-10 that he will not be coming to this Assembly and has put his mandate to rest until March 1st. I really don't want to do the controversy of this, I just expect you to be consistent, as you then called Mr. Karamark to condemn today this act of your former president. As far as I know, Mr Bernardic has been elected and Mr Milanovic puts his mandate on hold until March 1st. I don't see why that is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29559	Thank you very much. The next replica of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29560	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I really want to bring down a little passion on this issue because this is a subject that has retreated to the media many times and not only on your part but also on our side. The fact is that Mr Milanovic did not come in this session of parliament, but it is also the fact that he was elected four times in this House, twice won the highest number of votes preferential, that he was once Croatian prime minister. So, I think we should all respect that for a little bit, man's been in public life for ten years. So, I think he's given this country enough to work enough for this country to allow and tolerate something that could in principle be completely common to, say, not immediately activate the mandate or resign and activate 6 plus 6, so he would have the right 6 months on full salary and 6 months on half salary. And he'd have all the health care rights and I don't know what kind. So now that 1.3, he's gone, he's frozen, he's probably never going to freeze his mandate again, and he's not going to get out of the budget anymore. So he could have left, he could have activated, and no one could have objected to him. I'm just saying, let's have a little respect for the people who gave a lot for this country. You don't have to agree with him or me, we're on opposite political sides. The man was the prime minister, he was the leader of the opposition, twice elected to the Parliament with the highest number of preferential votes, and I guess he deserved to carry out what, i.e. to get what each of us would have to leave Parliament tomorrow. Let's not, let's lower our tensions, give people some honor. Let's have, let's hear ourselves at the end. Here, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29561	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29562	Comrade Sauch, I must say that your debate in this area has impressed me most among all of your colleagues because it is the most real and the best for you. So I wasn't talking about rights, I know what the rights of all MPs are, I was talking about the other dimension, the moral dimension. I just think that all of us here as advocates have rights but also obligations. And on this act Mr Milanovic will be tried by citizens, my court does not matter. So, I'd just like to say, of course, what you said about him having certain merits because he's been acting on the duties he has I'm not at all contesting, I've been talking about something else, and you've been very well aware of what I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29563	Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas. The next individual debate is a representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29564	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I wouldn't answer for this debate, here's what my colleagues said that until now, there's been no debate about these reports at all, but I think that's exactly what my colleague Maras has contributed to, who has made a certain show out of every session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so on the last one where my colleague Maru Christic and I have discussed the immunity of me and my colleague, he said that here he wants to protect Nikola Grmoi and even his irresponsible statements. You don't need me to protect my colleague Maras from anything, I've already been to several hearings as far as this case is concerned, and I'm going to get that trial because he's got this trial of a man who brought up the first piece of information and through which I came up with that information. So I can't lose that process. You have nothing to protect me from, from every session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to do a show where you're talking about some kind of Metkovic's Rules of Procedure, it's not even Metkovicic, it's methodical, it's against you, you're hurting your colleagues of the SDPs in Metkovic and they're doing well, so if you don't do a show at these sessions there won't be a lot of these discussions that aren't necessary because this really isn't necessary. And as for Mr Milanovic, I think that the man has left politics and that there is no point in dragging him around here in this Assembly, if there is anything controversial about these diaries, let the competent institutions investigate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29565	We have two replicas. A fellow Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29566	Thank you very much. Mr. Grumoja, I don't do MP sessions anything unusual compared to what you do in government behavior. Has it ever happened that partners in the coalition are accusing each other of crime? It's not. If it's a new situation, if it's something that's not normal, and you normally provoke such a debate, you provoke a debate if you say Karamarko is a criminal and he's been removed because of it, so how come you don't discuss it at the MIP? If someone's got the verdict this same as you say you're being sued by Mr. Ostojić, I wonder if he's got a fee. It means because he was obviously wrongly sued. And you are slandered when Mr. Ostojić said that you slandered him, or that someone was following you for something he shouldn't have. So the state's gonna need to damage you, right? We'll see if you get that fee from the state and whether it really was and whether it was an over-rule of power, etc. I expect you to seek compensation from the state for being unfoundedly followed if you are found in a court of law to be followed, which I'm sure is not true. And whether you've said something legally or legally, or not you've proven it, I'm less interested in it. So I'm wondering if someone followed you or didn't, if he wasn't following you or following you, and he shouldn't have, then you have the right to compensation. We'll see if you get that fee. As for Metkovic, I apologize to all the residents this way because I really shouldn't have identified them, or I shouldn't have identified the Bridge with the beautiful town of Metkovic and its hardworking residents, that way I offended them and I apologize to them, so it's not the meth business or the bridge is equal to Metkovic. Thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29567	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29568	Well, again, I don't know how you came to some topic that has nothing to do with this case. You're in last session, not about Karamark, but about the particular process I have with your party colleague, so you did the show and said that you wanted to protect me from my irresponsible statements. You're on your way to that show, not related to Karamark, and every time you do that, that's what I'm talking about, but you obviously don't get it. And as for this follow-up and everything that was happening, everything that Most claimed about Milanovic's schemes and attempts to break the Bridge proved to be correct, and that's why now that all the media is trampling Milanovic, I said I would never say more about Zoran Milanovic and I have no intention of slapping a dead donkey and I won't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29569	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29570	I'm surprised to see you. So you have the protector of the greatest in the Parliament, the best minister in Mr. Maras' history. Well, you must be proud. If he were such a protector to me, I'd be proud to walk with Metkovic and he must have hit a man. I don't know now you're rebelling that Metkovic's statute to be transmitted Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Rules of Procedure.]] He says "MOST" now. Of course the MOST is no longer just in Metkovic. That's why Mr. Maras is in opposition now. And be proud of it when you, when Maras is the most important minister, i.e. The best since the 1990s, your protector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29571	Thank you very much. Is there an answer? There isn't. We'll stay depriving. This concludes the debate. No, we still have, excuse me, another individual debate from fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29572	Thank you, Vice President. So there's nothing lower for me, nothing poorer, nothing poorer than when the Mandate-Immunity Commission report is used for political debates. We have a constitution. This Constitution and this article the Constitution was adopted at a time when actually the greatest influence on the appearance of this constitution had by President Tudjman. The Constitution says that MPs do not have an imperative mandate, they do not. A representative may be elected, may never come to the session within four years, may not say a word and you have no right to object to him if you respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You can think about him whatever you want as badly as I think about agents who don't come to work, I mean bad. Not just the representatives of your club, but the representatives of your club. I've been here a long time, and I'm known as one of the more active. But it would never occur to me, not even to those who are from your club in your former mandates, to object to them for principled reasons, because I respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It's an important thing. Someone said, Milanovic could have used 6+6. He could have, many MPs used it, and the prime ministers used it. So shall We blame them? Well, you can't blame someone if they use their rights, because it's deeply immoral, deeply immoral. You can use your right not to come here. It would be immoral of me to attack you why you're using your right. As for immunity, immunity exists absolute for the spoken word in the Parliament, there is one relative outside the Parliament. I've always advocated that immunity be respected absolutely. Last time I spoke against the opinion of my club, I didn't need to take off immunity even when it was wanted by the State's Attorney's office. Why? Because a state's attorney is elected to the Parliament on a proposal from the government. So who guarantees me that this man will be objective. I have great respect for this state's attorney, so that someone doesn't accidentally think that I'm thinking about him or that I have any opinion about him. But theoretically, this man can act politically in his office, and that's why I'm not for even removing immunity, but for expanding immunity. Because a representative can't be prosecuted for a spoken word, but it can be material. And it's being abused. He was sued by HRT for saying that some shows were being bought. Cain got that dispute, but they bullied him, he had to go to court. I'm here to say that if we once agreed to change the Constitution to make that correction and we say a representative can't be punished, he can't be prosecuted, he can't be prosecuted, he can't be materialized because of the spoken word because it's the meaning of a representative. The point of a representative is to speak. It's a job to warn. He can speak wrong, he can speak wrong. But here they are, I'm only talking about principles here. And let's not be surprised if we're the last institution citizens respect. We're in the last place, because this is how we talk about each other. If you think the MP can't or shouldn't receive salary and not come here, suggest changing the Constitution, and we'll introduce an imperative mandate, but then we won't be MPs anymore, but MPs, and that's a very different matter for you. Because you represent the citizens who elected you, and you cannot be removed from this place by your party, or by God's father. He's the only one who can call you. But no one else. And the important thing is, it's important, that immunity is important. And that's why I called in to discuss speaking in principle. I don't care if it is, what happened between Grmoya and Ostojić. When the mandates are over, nothing will happen, then a court case will be conducted. But it can't be a court case, it can't be an instrument of political struggle. We can't, we can't let that happen in the interest of protecting this institution. As I ask you, I believe you made a mistake today, think about it. Do not report to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, because they are principled, they are written according to the law and according to the Constitution to use for political accounts. Find any other area, so there's as many as you want. So attack, never mind. But this is what he thinks, don't be angry, my dear colleague, I find this unworthy and I attribute it to your inexperience, not badness, but just inexperience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29573	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Honorable representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29574	Dear colleague Stazic. As far as your immunity hearing is concerned, I really agree with you most of the time. As for the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commissions and the debate on them, I believe you will agree with me because you were present in this assembly as well as I have that we have had them every time in this assembly. So I didn't make any precedent today. And as for my debate, so I know what our mandate is under the Constitution and I didn't talk about Mr. Milanovic breaking anything, I was talking about another dimension, and I think you've figured it out. Now you've told me in your debate that I've actually pollemized about it for some political points, so I wouldn't agree with you really wasn't my intention. You can see there's no media or anyone here. I really wanted to point out that I believe that we all have rights here, obligations and that what I find unacceptable is only in this case that Mr Milanović already knew that he would no longer come and participate in the work of the Parliament. However, it is his decision and I have the right to my position on it, I said it. You challenged me, you condemned me for it, and you didn't judge your colleagues from your club when they also condemned Mr. Karamark in the last term for not coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29575	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29576	For the first time in this assembly, I have been here since 2000, only in this assembly has it begun to discuss the reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and I consider it a bad precedent, I find it a bad precedent. I call on all the representatives from my club and your club not to do it, not to use it for political struggle. You say you're aware of the Constitution, that you're aware of the law, but that you have moral grudges, but why do you think you have the right to be a moral arbiter, why, who gave you the right to have you fellow arbitration? I will never be your moral arbiter, you have your beliefs and you spend them, you live them however you know, but that right you took over a little bit, you took a little too much right. I'm telling you again, I'm not telling you this out of malice, this advice of mine is friendly to you, and I repeat, I believe you've done it out of obnoxiousness, out of inexperience, you're here for the first time, so you don't know what it's been like in the past. So this is something our Mandate-Immunity Commission is a commission that we must protect all, all without distinction, and respect all their proposals because they are not meaningless. And they were never politically motivated, ever. I've been here a long time, never had a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission aimed at political reckoning. There's always a parliamentary majority in it, there's a majority now. Therefore, we intend to make my call, kind.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29577	Thank you very much. The next replica of his colleague, Nicole Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29578	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Stazic, I didn't answer to replicate you because I agree with one part of your presentation, I answered because I protested that you had the right to speak at all because I had to go there for a piece of paper, Mr. Bukarica directed me, and he gave you a paper that he pulled under the table. I understand your state of health, but I think when we talk about the rights and obligations of the MPs that we all need to be in the same position.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29579	Thank you very much. This is a pain alive. You want to answer what you want to do about this? Oh, come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29580	And I call on you to enable you now as parliamentary majority, and you also have the President of the Parliament that MPs can finally start reporting for the debate by electronic means, with the pills that the president has promised, so I don't know if we're going to get them because this outdated way of reporting for discussion, I don't know where there is. And now to insist that this note has to be exactly the form that's in there... And he sent you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I think while we're there, I think the Secretary of Parliament should have several copies of the application for the current agenda. He can send a guard to bring it to him, he doesn't have to go anywhere, get him 20 copies and be there. But to make sure that as soon as possible by cell phone, I come to Parliament's site and sign up for a debate and get out there on the screen, that I can do it from home when I see that there's a point on the agenda to read and sign up for debate. Therefore, you invite me to go out and I invite you to take advantage of your authority with President of the Parliament and to introduce it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29581	Thank you very much. And until then, you've only heard from tomorrow that there's enough paper at your place. We're going to another replica of our colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29582	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazic, I was pleased to listen to you because we have been crying out since the start of this House's mandate that you have abused some of the practices so far and have gone in the wrong direction. Both you and your colleagues in the Living Wall and all those who were concerned with all these removals of immunity or not stripping, we listened to daily Bible readings, all that was related to certain cases, and no one was bothered. And it recently hurt me when my colleague Bauk came out here, says when we discussed Mr. Bulj's immunity, I also feel sorry for Mr. Petrov, says you threw the ball at us, and we'll knock, remember, and then it was allowed. Now we've caught up and we've gone really to the extreme, this is the extreme to discuss someone's freezing mandate. That's never done before. . /. And really maybe a colleague wanted to say something. You said it was good to speak even wrong, that it was the task of a parliamentary representative. I don't think it's wrong, we just wanted to show if we're going to continue to insist on new practices, on discussions that happen on the Mandate-Immunity Commission upstairs, on some plays, if we're going to transfer it here to the Assembly, and then there's going to be a lot of injured and it's normal. Then it'll come to a political struggle and then it'll look like this. And if you have already begun to defend Mr Milanovic with the number of preferential votes, don't do it because he received 51,000 preferential votes. His absence here, his reluctantness means 51,000 disappointed voters who precisely wanted him to sit here, to fight for them, to be in the Parliament, to speak, to protect their interests, but he didn't do it. So you're going the wrong way, now we're just showing that we can do it. And we're already warning a lot of things. You've begun to tear down the quorums. We said maybe your laws will come, maybe we'll take that practice too. So be what we were in the last term. We've been a little bit more alive, but we've never done these things before. Here's just to be clear. [[Intruder Vrdoljak: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29583	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29584	Now I don't know, to start with this last one. Quarum, the collapse of the quorum is a legitimate means of parliamentary struggle used in all parliaments of the world. Why? Because the quorum is in charge of the parliamentary majority. The collapse of the quorum is an indication that the government has no support in Parliament. So don't mess with this. So, they're complaining to me that I'm theater in the debates, maybe I am. But I would never be theatral, and I never wanted to be, I never wanted to talk like that when it came to the Mandate-Immunity Commission. It began in this term with Cule, because he insisted on talking about his case, because he expressed it dramatically, completely unnecessary. And even when it comes to Culei, even when it comes to it, I've spoken in principle here when it comes to my colleague Pernar, even when it comes to the State's Attorney's Office. There is time, Culeu's term will expire, the term of office will expire. He broke records there, actually committed vandalism. Vandalism is common, nothing else, far worse than spraying on facades. But in principle, if we speak, then we protect all MPs because it's important. That's important. There'll be another state attorney tomorrow. The question is whether they'll behave as principledly as this and the past, I don't know, maybe they won't. I knew them who didn't behave like that. I knew those who were fulfilling party orders, party orders, orders from the party that chose them, and that's why protecting this is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29585	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the second item of the agenda – Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We'll vote of course when the conditions are met. One more day we are enriched with our work in the Parliament. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 with the Proposal for a Decision to appoint 8 members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 1928 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29586	Thank you, Agent Panenic. We're continuing the plenary session. First point - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission I hope you will have understanding regardless of what is announced the second point due to the new circumstances have happened. I would like to ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29587	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 13th session held on the day of today the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime from 9 February 2017 by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia also by act of 9 February 2017 with the President of the Croatian Parliament, with the authorisation for the deprivement of liberty, determination of detention, investigative prison and the launch of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Saucha of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(2) in connection with paragraph 1. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Penalty law. Tomislav Saucha is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament shall not be detained or a criminal procedure can be initiated. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 7 votes in favour and 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of the following decision: The Office for the Dispensation of Freedom, the establishment of the detention of an investigative prison against Tomislav Sauche of representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the DORH, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime of 9 February 2017, has been sent through the DORH Act of 9 February 2017 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that it has committed a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(2) in connection with paragraph 1. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Penalty law. Also after the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 7 votes in favour, 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament also provides the following decision: Approval is granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Saucha of representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the DORH, the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime from 9 February 2017 by means of an act of 9 February 2017 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(2) in conjunction with paragraph 1. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Penalty law. A brief explanation, the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided to propose an authorisation for the deprivation of liberty, the establishment of the detention of the investigating prison, as well as the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Saucha of representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the DORH as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duties uninterruptedly on the basis of which the Republic of Croatia is given jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29588	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, who volunteered for participation in the debate, I apologize. I apologize to my esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Representative Zeljko Glasnovic has applied for individual participation in the debate. As there is no representative of Glasnović, we move on. Representative Ivan Pernar also applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29589	Thank you, Chairman. So here we are today. Yesterday it happened to you let's say the shocking details that the government's money evaporated, allegedly half a million kuna. For many, it's big money and I agree, it's really a relatively large amount for ordinary citizens, for the state itself, and for the banks that make billions, it's actually small money. But what you'd like to say, that is. Why did I even sign up, so there are cases of huge withdrawals of money from state-owned companies where millions have evaporated. No one's ever answered for that. And there were so-called. black funds where certain HDZ members signed that they were taking money from them, none of them were processed for it. I suppose it was because of a lack of political will, that it was simply not the will to process it. And then we serve Tomislav Saucha as some kind of capital, a huge beast, here he even came to the cover of the Morning List, I think he never had it at least not in such a large format and it creates an illusion that the DORH is working to achieve something, etc. I think this process itself is pointless until a much more serious process with powerful convictions is over, like. The trial of Sanader, Vidosevic, etc. And for those big fish, unfortunately, there's no will in the DORH, and we see for one member of the opposition for a much smaller amount not only to find time, not only was the investigation, let's say fast and what is effective is said in the people, but it's being sought for our fellow council attorney in custody. This means that on the moment after our debate is over, and after the vote the students gathered at the gallery can testify, let's say that the police now enter here among the constituency benches and take the man out, etc. Such processes, unlike so many other processes where people have defended themselves with freedom, I find it sad and there is no need to determine the detention team any more than man has already been, gave a statement to DORH, the experts have already found that the signatures were real and eventually all already questioned who spoke to these advisers Milanovics said they had not traveled, that they had not seen the money. So it says in that DORH request to remove immunity that these office employees also said that Saucha allegedly told them that they were giving it, etc., etc., which will say that I do not see the point of determining for him an investigative prison because the matter was more or less related to the past time. Saucha is no longer, does not work in the government, Saucha no longer has any power to, to say, write some journals again. So there's no fear of repeating the crime, things have already been investigated, so eventually they're looking for an investigation. And I think that the measure of an investigative prison for him is essentially the wrong team as far as the Constitution makes everyone innocent until proven otherwise, and that is, in some way, prejudges guilt, or going to prison, is somehow condemned in advance and, and also media, you know when the Morning Paper writes the cover, when you come to it, you watch out for being taken to prison, and even if it's not the man who's going to believe him anymore. So that's one, I'd say the Stalinist process, but this time not directed by the party, this time it's one, as I would say, I think it's also intended to divert the debate from the trust of the Secretary of the Navy. Because just when we were supposed to vote on it, Barisic, excuse me, Minister Barisic, just arrived at 8.30 a.m. Well, I'm proposing to my colleagues that they don't give consent, say, okay, we can investigate, we can do anything, but don't take a man to jail right now. 'Cause look, if we vote now, now it is, here I have three minutes left, then there will be a gentleman from HDZ Yeah, yeah. [[Breaking president: 3 minutes and 40 seconds.]] There's just a good chance the police might be waiting outside his apartment. You sign him now, I won't give him a death sentence, but if you know what it means to go to prison in Remetic, how you're being searched, etc., and there was a colleague of ours sitting here with us. That could happen to one of you tomorrow. Have, have consideration for your colleagues. Well, I remember him, he was always cultural and nice, and I don't think he's some kind of dangerous person I should be holding up right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29590	Agent Pernar, thank you. I'd single out one thing. I don't know if you have any knowledge of the council's representatives that the same could happen to them, if you do, it would be your duty to report it, or yourself or them. And as for your struggle and everyone's fight against false media inscriptions, you said you'd fight as we fight. Also, we don't see a problem, let them beat but we know how to get back. Relativisation on the third side of any action is not good. Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29591	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues. Sir, colleague Pernar, whose chicken egg are you in this Croatian Assembly, who are you representing, who are you representing? Who are the ones who see you as an idol from high school. Go to kindergarten, maybe find some people out there who'll understand your stories? What story did you come out of? In what way are we all here? I ask you, is this the same colleague of ours who insulted Mr. Barisic's Croatian Parliament yesterday, demeaning as many others here? [[/The Incursion President: Representative Culey, I would ask without disrespecting the parliamentary deputies! With all due respect to everyone.]] In what way, for what, in the name of what? And now you're looking for mercy for someone or something who didn't deserve it at all as well as others. Is there a big crime or a little crime? How can everything be destroyed? How many ways is there to kill a man? So you have a rifle, a pen, a word and a deed. And what method did we apply here yesterday over Mr. Barisic of the four? Are we or aren't we? Have you asked for mercy today, for whom? We talk about thieves every day, especially you, accuse the entire half of the Croatian Parliament. We're all in the same package in your mouth, so we're all thieves, and in some cases fascists when it's necessary to achieve an effect when some kids come up to the gallery. And what's this about? And everyone's voting to take away immunity and you're not. Why not you? Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29592	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29593	Thank you, Chairman. So here's Mr. Culey when there was a debate on the abolition of your immunity just the Live Wall representatives were against removing your immunity and HDZ and SDP were in favour. Why were we against it? Well, here's Mr. Culey, whose chicken egg we were then, here you go. Likewise, Mr. Sauchi is now likely to be singled out by HDZ and the SDP. So this isn't about me being biased or us, our colleagues towards you or Mr. Sauchi, but we're simply trying to point out that institutions are dealing with petty crime and that big crime, crime of giant proportions, crime of privatisation, which is why we're all on our knees. And this CNB policy just doesn't touch it, that's not a question. And as one saying goes, "little thieves are hanged, and the big hat is taken off," and that is one policy of continuity. So my goal is just to point out that instead of us rotting heads, instead of big fish, we're actually dealing with tails and we're trying to say cut them off. However, as long as the big heads are free, as long as the big heads have friends in the Supreme Court and what's called the Constitutional Court has no right and justice for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29594	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29595	My colleague Pernar, I wouldn't talk about our colleague, when he says judicial bodies. However, Parliamentarians, I am not gods like you. I personally asked for my immunity to be removed and you respected it. While your case was different, you begged not to remove your immunity. What does this card mean? I'm sorry you called on these upstairs students to know who has this card that has immunity. And you're calling as well as you know that a colleague would be among us. I don't judge him, I don't accuse him, it'll be the relevant bodies. But the fact is that in Croatian prisons should be made, i.e. enlargement of Croatian prisons. Surely in Croatian prisons there are people who did not want to be because of two feta prosciuttos are in prisons, and those who have taken billions are now walking. Those who are INA's sister companies, such as Jozo Petrovic, are free. I personally believe that you said one lapus, that we must be protected by this card. This card to protect us. That's embarrassing for me. How do Croatian defenders feel now that chapter 23 has been opened, while you are personally going on tour with these Chetniks. That you were in Banja Luka and you were with this party The Beast, which is a large-serb Chetnik organization supported directly by Seselj's ranks. That's not good. You protect these people, and I agree that the Croatian National Bank is a problem. I agree that there are a number of criminals at large, and I agree that we are losing our arbitration because our judicial authorities are not working, from the DORH, the USOK. They don't work in the interest of the citizens, but to protect us from what you've been calling here to vote is not fair for you to tell the students. We're citizens like others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29596	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29597	Mr. Bull, I don't think the Chetniks have anything to do with this debate right now, but okay. I just wanted to say that nobody argues that the guilty should be punished. However, we are in a paradoxical social situation, that those great culprits are protected not only in the sense that they are waiting in the Kalmeta case for five years to press charges or that in Vidosevic's case for three years at all at the beginning of the trial but even in those rare cases, watch this. Protect them and in a way that they just say to me he said, "Let's say Ivo Sanader," and whatever anyone was doing, he's suddenly a free man. So everything he did was nothing. And in the end, and the only one everyone incriminates, who they're talking about, he's the one, he's telling us that we're giving money, we're pulling it out, and so on. In the end, he's convicted, too. And you have a situation that a man who took 14 million kunas from the state register so what's his punishment? It's potato peeling. There. A settlement, a peel of potatoes. And Tomislav Sauch, he, for him, is wanted for custody to watch out if that 14th, this is half a million kuna, so that's 28 times less. So, it's more likely that Tomislav Saucha will go to prison for disappearance, if he's guilty, I'm not saying he is for half a million kuna, but Cobankovic's for 28 times the amount. Why? For that reason, it was for political reasons that the blame would be passed on to one man, and then the only man would be condemned. And that's the way the judiciary works is what I want to point out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29598	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29599	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Pernar, I cannot take the impression that you are here today solely in the role of the SDP lawyer, or lawyer Tomislav Sauche, and you are trying in every way to distract yourself from what is today the subject of the debate, which is the request of the DORH to remove Mr. Sauchi's immunity so that he can proceed further and determine whether he has kept to himself how he writes here the property benefit of 540532 kuna and 1360 euros. You say it's small money. Well, I don't know about Croatian citizens if it's small money, for me it's not small money, and I think it's a big crime if it's true. We're not here in court, nor can you be anyone's lawyer to judge what's the big blame, which is a small guilt. But somehow you're always itchy by the HDZ, you don't mention anyone else. You don't even remember those yellow envelopes you're still looking into. Maybe that's why you're afraid if we take off an immunity agent now that maybe you won't get in line. Therefore, stir up a little bit in front of your door, don't be every pot lid, vote like this once, twice as your colleague Bulj told you, whine when a request comes to remove your immunity and pray don't vote to remove my immunity. Be consistent once. That card doesn't give any of us the right to commit criminal acts. Everyone defend themselves where they need to be, and that's the court, if they're looking here and some stricter measures unfortunately our colleague Saucha will have to bear it, and I hope to be honest that he will ultimately prove his innocence. But don't represent anyone's aggrieved interests, let some things work out the bodies that need to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29600	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29601	Respect. Well, look, every time politicians are in the game, then it's kind of a political process. You'll tell your colleague Sauch what he can't stand. Look, when it came to the crime of Eve Sanader, at the time of his term, Mr. Sanader didn't have to endure, then he was protected by all the institutions for years. And the decision to process him came only when he fell into the grip of the party's leadership. Such a course of action was also similar to the case of Glavas the same thing, the moment he resented Sanader at the moment the investigations were launched, the charges arrived, the real and false witnesses who charged him, etc., which will say that there are many, many issues that should be raised. And why is that? Because if this problem is not solved, the fact that large fish pass without punishment, and small fish are pushed into custody simply the problems in society will not be solved. It means people's trust in institutions is growing because I don't know her as a convicted colleague of Sach. No, trust would grow if, for example, Sanader, Kalmeta or Vidosevic were convicted. But they'll never be convicted, that's what Dinko Cvitan told me. He told me Ivan Sanader would never be convicted. So what? We can tell Sauch to be sentenced to life imprisonment, and what have we done with it? What good is it for society, what message did we send? You know what message we sent him, Mr. Saucha, if you'd stolen 14 million kunas, you'd have peeled potatoes, Mr. Saucha, if you'd taken 10 million or 5 million euros, you'd be a free man, your verdict would have fallen, you didn't steal Mr. Saucha. It's a message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29602	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the next reported the honourable representative Petar Škorić, a pardon. An individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29603	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the topic today, and this case that took place in the SDP encourages us to discuss how politics was conducted during the previous government, during the term of office of Prime Minister Milanovic. We are witnesses here yesterday with which ease, and also in recent days and years, SDP's are being thrown in mud and calling HDZ a criminal organisation, and all of this is practically by those who are being stripped of immunity today due to suspected crime. It was not pleasant to listen all day until late to the night of discredition and toss mud at our minister, the prime minister on members of the government. Trying to justify this act of counterfeiting, plagiarizing 532 diaries trying to justify this responsibility trying to transfer to a common little man to people who work in the administration to justify their shameful politics. So I ask all of you here, so who would dare to do so by an ordinary civil servant who lives on his salary, out of $4.5.6 thousand, resort to signing a 532 fake travel order, toss out a mockery of his government, all the advisors, the dignitaries for whom someone took false travel expenses. It certainly is not pleasant to listen to those advisers who have advised Milanovic's government, especially Mr. Budak, who spent more than 180 days on the road, and by all this, which turns out to be a very large charge. Yesterday, hypocritically on our right, they warned and called our minister of education that he was a plagiarist, and this case only confirms that they had plagiarized all their mandates. The shame with which ease is passed, with which ease is moralized, with which the light points to others. We are not going to do mud in advance here today, we appreciate Croatian institutions, their independence and we believe that they will do their job with extreme responsibility and professionalism. No SDP spins as false accusations against our government and our ministers that you have spent for days here will be able to hide the shame that occurred in the heart of the Kukuriku coalition. It is a shame that you once again pointed out this mockery as well as all your advisors who after all this is a message to everyone else as much as it is worth consulting at all. To talk about the government's report and which has been submitted to the DORH since 19 October, therefore the audit has identified irregularities and failures relating to expenditure in the section relating to work contracts and official travel contracts. As part of these expenditures for official travel, expenditure on official travel expenses for three special advisers to the Prime Minister amounting to 307,000 kuna are recorded abroad. Special advisers for science, for European law and culture were appointed as early as 2012, were not employees of the president's office and, according to a press release, they did the consulting work without any compensation. The expenditure for the journals 3 special advisers are recorded on the basis of 57 official travel orders abroad, according to which a total of 532 journals were paid in 2015. For two advisors, 186 daily journals were paid and one 160 daily journals. No travel orders shall be accompanied by either a road report or any other credible documentation to confirm that this is a journey and carried out. As of 16 September 2016, in connection with the expenditure on official travel expenditure, the General Affairs Office states that it has received the following information from the Office of the Prime Minister. The official travels of special advisers have been agreed and approved by the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister with a prior consultation with the Prime Minister himself. So here's the channel, it's this way of communication and today, the one who tries to transfer responsibility to someone else is clouding the Croatian public, hiding his usual mode of action. This isn't about failure or warrant one or two. and so on, it's an organized system. If they did this with travel orders, we can only imagine what was done in other areas. So let the rule of law work, and let the competent institutions do their job to the end, and let those who ply themselves with mud and point fingers at others first look at themselves in their own mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29604	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29605	Dear counterpart Skoric, you mentioned in your introduction the case in the SDP. I wouldn't exactly say there's a case being handled in the SDP, but the most important thing you mentioned, you mentioned last night's session and all the things we had the opportunity to hear, where the dignity of a man was insulted. All the things we've been listening to all these years where more than 200 thousand members of our party have been insulted. And last night about six o'clock when we got the mail, we members of the Mandate Commission, last night about six o'clock, all of us on this side of the assembly knew about this case. And I must say I was extremely proud of all these colleagues. And in no word did we mention to Sauch, nor to the SDP, nor to the detention, nor to what will happen. Nor do I want to call SDP as a party this is about people's names. And we don't know what's behind the hill yet. What Milanovic said, they were pushing the fox, King Kong will come out. Maybe he will, maybe he won't. But the crime scene carries the name and last name of the person who committed it, not the party, not the HDZ, not the SDP, what was being burdened on all of us. And to my children who are members of that party and my mother, my friends, my relatives, all of Croatia and 200 thousand of our members. And today it's happening again. I don't want you and I talking about SDP crime here. I want to finally start talking about the names of the people who did something about it. And the question is, what's been going on for all these four years is that these warrants are now coming out, it's been a lot more than just now that it's come out. We'll see what's going on. But those who did it have a name and a last name. And let's clear that up once more with a name and a last name. Who did what, who he worked for and how he worked. And get on with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29606	Thank you. The honourable representative Petar Škorić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29607	Dear colleague Klaric, you're absolutely right. There is also a fundamental difference between us and the SDP, which for individuals we do not suspect or accuse a collective, we do not suspect parties, we do not suspect Croatian society. Well, we can see, on the other hand, that because of the failure, because of the irresponsibility, the individual's crime in any segment of social life has only one direction and that's HDZ. That's inadmissible. That makes us different. We believe in the institutions of this state, we encourage the institutions to work independently, not to be subject to any pressures as it is certain in the past either to do their job correctly, to the end, and to make all those who have done anything wrong dishonest to sanction them because this is the only way and way to restore trust in political and public life in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29608	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29609	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Škorić, in a quiet tone I will tell you, Croatian defenders who are like... peeling his skin off his back, digging through his wounds to get to this Croatia after so many years, hundreds of years of darkness,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , injustices, to come and realize the Croatian dream and get their own Homeland of Croatia, punish themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In what way? That they kept quiet and kept quiet about everything that's been happening to them for all these 20s and a few years because we don't know when the injustice has exactly started with us, so we're going from 20s to a few years old. When we allow ourselves to be represented, those who are not, who have not earned nothing, nor have they earned any of their blood, sweat, sweat, work, they have not earned anything to insult us from this highest House, the Croatian people. They dragged us through the mud, crucified us, from Sava to Mark's Square. Who did this to us? Why did he do this to us? Who were our presidents? Who were their advisors? Who were our ministers? Who were our leaders? What have you been doing with us all these years since '91? So far? On whose behalf did you work for? With what intention? Why did you do this to us? Where were you taking us? Where were you going to take us? For who? Why? How many Croatian defenders are here? So raise your hands? Raise your voice more! I see little of you here fighting for the interests of Croatian defenders and Croatian state. Shut up, you're looking in front of your cell phones or blanks, and you all have war routes. Honor the exceptions here, the honorable men who fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29610	Thank you. Thank you. [[Don't hit Glavasevic little while I'm talking!]] The honourable representative Petar Škorić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29611	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Culej, even on this case, we are witnessing this particular story of yours about the discrediting of people, the institutions that work for this country, and it is specifically about cops, Croatian defenders, people who ensure public order and peace, who fought for this country. Well, in particular, Mr. Saucha had one case a few years ago in Sljemen where he savaged and insulted police officers. So this isn't the first time the judicial authorities have dealt with Mr. Sauchom. There was an incident, in which Saucha was insulted by intervention officers, threatened with Minister Ranko Ostovic and Principal Dominic. The story ended in court. The order of the Criminal Court in Zapresic Sauch was punished. He was complaining to a senior court. The Supreme Court also punished him. They didn't believe Sauchi. They believed the police. So the government that was there was information about what kind of behavior and actions were involved. She closed it in front of those eyes, but that's why they're willing to point a finger at others for procedures that aren't even running, let alone being processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29612	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29613	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Škorić, back only to the point, actually the starting point that someone has wet their fingers. Travel orders, journals, I'll tell you that here in my term I saw it. And if we were to return only to the actual living room as such, why, for example, do you receive a full diary if you have paid food? How many people I've met, and I wouldn't even want to go in there if there were any who went on the road, they were all paid. Here I personally feel like a politician since in some position I was also a minister, as well as a parliamentary representative, where I come usually to have food served already. Why didn't I take a diary at the ministry? It's just that I've been doing it before trying to get money out of the state budget, and it's that cash register, and it's the way it's the easiest way to get there. Then where people who have a certain position, where they have a certain power, where they represent people get into trouble because they break the law and do it consciously. And until we solve a problem that we actually know for ourselves which is the starting point, and often we find ourselves tempted and these opportunities open up to anyone, so when we see that up to 300 thousand kunas, then it's clear that the system doesn't work. And that's why I'm going to run on behalf of my colleagues at the Most Initiative too, and I don't need to go cash. The clear stand can also go to the current account, increasingly clean, increasingly clear and will not happen even if there is such evidence of Sauch or anyone else. And I'll remind you that in this House, we've already been removing immunity from agents who have just been engaged in fraud on travel orders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29614	The answer of the respected representative Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29615	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Panenic, with the majority of your exposure, I agree only that abuses will not solve any technical regulations or payment to accounts, not cash or the like. It's a question of consciousness, a question of morality, a question of what people have in them or don't have. However, we are concerned when in such high positions, where people have high wages, where they are members of the supervisory board, where they sit in the chairs, when you boast like this, when they send a message of mistrust. Especially when those same people used to brag in the past. Here's an example for which a person is not sanctioned or politically or morally. So she's been sanctioned. It's a bad message to society, and of course that's why we came to divisions like this. That is why we have come to a great mistrust and aversion of our people towards all political options in Croatia. And that is why we should all be concerned that in our ranks all those who work in any way and in a moral sense harm the Croatian political scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29616	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29617	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Škorić, I agree that these journals should be cleared of the issue. And please clear up this issue of governor of the CNB's diaries along the way. He spends about 500 grand a year on his own. He's only on the Committee for Conflict of Interest. So what's the DORH waiting for? Give him some consistency, and ask him for these journals and travel expenses. Ask your director for the State Agency for Deposit Insurance, she goes to Trinidad and Tobago. It's a road that costs 20, 30 thousand kuna and her mandate expired almost a year ago. Ask the Minister of Finance to look at some of that travel expenses. And when you mention attacks on Minister Barisic, who was initiated by Vlatko Silobrcic, who is a member of the party's chairmanship, has been smart. Tell me how it is possible for your Deputy Prime Minister Dalic to finance a SMETNO party in which the presidency of Silobrcic is therefore being attacked by Minister Barisic. So do you say whether Minister Barisic attacks Vlatko Silobrčić or Minister Dalic? Because if she's funding Minister Silobrčić, she's basically in charge of him, which means you attacked yourself. So you asked Zagar, your prime minister, whether he is power or opposition, so now you answer whether Minister Dalic is ruling or opposition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29618	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29619	Thank you very much. Well, here's a well-respected colleague of Bunjac, he would point out that HDZ isn't a BOOK or an investigative body, we didn't set up Cvitan or anyone, we know who set it up. Let them do their job. However, please do not cloud this topic today and put yourself in the context of defence of something that cannot be defended. We understand your position, perhaps the Croatian public is not. You've settled in, you've chosen a side, and that's why you're performing from the position of a lawyer, including events like this that can't be defended.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29620	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Škorić, first of all, made it very clear to the SDP that he or she is in the interest that this case is clear to all the representatives here and to all the parties and to the public, of course, and the public is most interested in what happened here and we are absolutely into it. What we're not is that you're standing here like you know everything about this case, and you don't know anything, you don't know anything. Let a man tell his defense there to defend himself, a lot of your colleagues today gave such statements both by the Parliament and by the Mandate-Immunity Commission that people believe him to be innocent, not to use and vulture here over that situation and try to say something about something you don't know. Let this situation be resolved, let's see what happened here, and then we'll be able to talk about it in a metric and relevant way. On the other hand, I can say once again that the SDP is in the interest of the situation being examined as soon as possible, to get rid of it, to finally all the facts of the institution and to know after that what really happened. This way to inform the public and say things you don't know, which you can only assume and take a stand, I think it's at least incorrect, and I said something more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29622	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29623	Dear Mr. Maras, you obviously know what I don't. If you know that you should say it where you should say it. But you obviously know about the trip, you used the journals, you went to America. On the other hand, we have not used these trips, and we have no reason to account for anyone in this regard. And you've had plenty of time to fight, stop and put yourself in a position not to discuss it today. You haven't denied anything in any part of it that I've brought out here. And I'm not judging anyone in advance, I'm not calling anyone in advance, I'm just talking about what the competent state institutions have done. So here's what you can tell the institutions and make their jobs easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29624	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Škorić. Are you witnessing the last two months of HDZ ratings growth or do you know why? I'll tell you, the very successful work of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government, but it's not just that. A prominent local leader of the SDP tells me something like this, let's let my Maras speak when he tells you the ratings are growing. And I think I'm voting for you. You know why I said this? Mr. Maras, yesterday you were so burned up here, so it was here with gestures of hands, and today so humble and humble. Men of the virtues of man, the quality of man is not exalted in good, and in evil he is not humbled. Always be a man. Oh, yeah, one more thing, I got a minute. "Nothing will force me to stop loving justice, nothing will force me to stop hating injustice, and in love with my Croatian people I will not give myself up from anyone" blessed Aloysia Stepinac. Good luck, Stepinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29626	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative, Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29627	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boban. So I believe that is also one of the elements why we suffered yesterday's attacks precisely the growth of the Croatian government's ratings, the growth of HDZ ratings and the terrible fall of the SDP. In this case, however, it is not alarming that this was done by Tomislav Saucha as parliamentary representative today, but by the former head of the Croatian Prime Minister's Office. Well, it's not 500 thousand kunas, it's a bag of money, it's black funds. You accused us of black funds, what did you do with that money? Is it possible that this money was financed by Alex Brown?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29628	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29629	My colleague Škorić, first of all, must not be liquefied, this is the first, as colleagues on the other hand do in principle. But the fact that in Croatia, the state is here on this example can be seen, at local levels, at the top of the government, so according to local levels, how much money leaks through the fingers is not transparent. And the fact is that we have a case that's also going through our fingers, my colleague Panenic was talking today, $40 million sister company, INA's sister company. And now we still have Jozo Petrovic, who was on the board of directors, later he was at MOL on the loose. I don't like it, but the fact is that the numerous were supposed to be in jail. So today we have halls built that serve no one. We have state audits and state audit reports, billions, we're all the same, no crime, no party, no religion, no nation. It's a crime. The workers of the smuggling from your Split or the workers of the Dalmatian girl from my Sinj certainly argue about how much the HDZ government, the SDPs took, they don't care. They want to know where the criminals are, where's the money from the '91 guns. The year that was meant for the defense of the Cetin area. The system's not working. What's going on? When someone falls out of power, only then are questions raised. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] The system must function, not in principle, on the principles of various consultants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29630	Thank you. Responsible representative Petar Škorić answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29631	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bull. You are known as a crime fighter, as a person who points to numerous deviations in Croatian society, but we are all responsible for a publicly spoken word here. This isn't about any liquefying, it's about the findings, the competent state body, the state's attorney's office has filed a request to this high-level house for the removal of immunity. We discuss it, we do not engage in mud and we cannot banish in the same way, every crime is a crime and reduce it when we have an event here and here that comes from the highest level of government, from the level of the Office of the President of the Croatian Government. We can imagine what is just happening, or what is happening at lower levels when it happens at that level. And also when you mention it, I see that you are returning to some events related to HDZ, then it would be correct for you to open up examples from the case of Saba, Mercelica, Vlahusic further that I do not list.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29632	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29633	Thank you, Your Honor. As the debate goes on, we all get a wider picture, and I agree with the HDZ gentleman that he said that Tomislav Sauche's position was 'let's say in a way spectacular, says the head of the Government's Office. And yes, he was strong, let's say relatively high in that government hierarchy. However, the amount for which he is transferred is not spectacular in his nature. You have, for example, a spectacular amount of 500 million euros, which is clouded by a wastewater purifier in Zagreb. So the state audit itself said that it was financed in any way except by this certain contract of the city of Zagreb with that German firm. This purifier would come 500m euros less, 500m euros compared to 500 000 kuna, that's the difference between the sky and the country, it means approximately 4.5m euros. billions of kuna, i.e. 600 million euros, respectively. That amount on the purifier is clouded. So these big cases don't touch, and as far as I'm concerned, there's no indication that they'll be touched. It's always done, so it's trying to show something as a spectacle and basically it's done for me, unfortunately it presents for the public because people aren't even going to condemn Mr. Sauch to getting trust in the institutions. I suppose if Mr. Saucha took 500 million he wouldn't be able to remove his immunity today, he took 500 grand and that's his fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29634	Thank you. The next replica is an esteemed representative. I'm sorry about Peter Skoric's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29635	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pernar, it's very worrying that today everything is relative to you, not today, but yesterday. You are, on the other hand, demeaning 500 thousand kuna, and on the other hand, you mention hypocritical people who dig through buckets, who collect PVC packaging, who live from it. I'd like to remind you that 500 thousand kuna is 120 and some cashier's pay in Konzum, 145 salaries, so it's 12 years of life, 12 years of remuneration for someone's workers' wages. Therefore, do not deceive the Croatian public in this way especially when you do not hesitate to touch the poorest who care about every kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29636	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Felak will have the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29637	Dear colleague Škorić, my replica goes one way, you mentioned the figures from the audit findings that speak of 308 thousand kunas suspected by Mr Sauch, but from the request of the State's Attorney's Office, it is much greater. It is said of 540 thousand, 522 kuna and 1360 euros. It's almost double the amount and they're still doing reconnaissances, investigations for some periods earlier, so the question is whether that's the final amount. Mr. Saucha is suspected of having done so as the head of the Office of the Prime Minister which is an even worse thing. So I'm not going to say that in any function of alienating that money, I'm speaking conditionally, and I don't want to judge anyone, and I don't want to gloat on anyone. But that also points to one more thing. As Prime Minister, did the Prime Minister himself know of such work or did he not know? And that should be determined by me in these investigative actions. Also, you stated yourself that Mr. Saucha had mentioned that it was not pleasant to come to the front page of the newspaper. Well, Mr. Saucha was already on the front page of the newspaper when the ski queen went into conflict with the cops. You yourself said that he was punished for it. So here's this dead-end atmosphere here in the House is talking about how very, that this is a very unpleasant topic especially for the one that has so far called all of us for this and that, and today we're called not to vulture and that of the man who, by quote, is actually building his political career in this House. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29638	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Peter Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29639	You are right, I have not read the report and the request of the State Attorney's Office that came, but I have used the report, the official report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has been delivered to the DORH since 19 October 2016, where the end of that report says: "After the trip, advisers reported to the Office of the Prime Minister on the official travels carried out in order to inform and advise the Prime Minister." Therefore, the Prime Minister knew all this. If anything was done behind his back, I can't talk about it. Of course the amount is far greater, and basically an investigation that will be launched will determine what it is at last, because the question is whether it will remain on only 540 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29640	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29641	Thank you very much. I did not speak here yesterday about the party's ethical court in the Croatian Parliament, which today decided not to work, although many yesterday offered to join them in the party court. I haven't said here many times that I don't care about those who get caught by the judiciary, because their fate is certainly not difficult and is not equal to those who don't reach it. And I've always been worried about talking about a lot of affairs, but that these affairs never end. You just found them interesting. The fact is that the SDP hit the floor with its honest nose this morning, and that's how we see it from the next facts because yesterday, all day, they called MOST that he hadn't gone public about the labels imposed by one minister. Look at the light, from what voice you hear it isn't. Out of a hundred votes, there's no vote today. Why? Because they always chose morale for themselves as something that was their own, and the mistakes of the individuals were overpouring to the party, and today they realized that only humans were wrong and that the mistake was only human and it doesn't suit them to spill over to their party. He says once, our colleague in the Parliament, it's our turn to knock. We don't have to knock today at HDZ. Gentlemen of the SDP, you nailed yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29642	The answer of the respected representative Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29643	So, respected counterpart Boris, of course, that the institutions of the rule of law, the courts, all the bodies who prosecute him are primarily in their jurisdiction and that this is not about a party court, and I think that a party court in a moral sense should exist in every political party in Croatia. And then these cases wouldn't even come to the State's Attorney's Office and the competent institutions, and I'm going to confirm that by any other event. The scandal in the Croatian government, the wife of Milanovic's cabinet, received a job from PLINACRO. So we all know who it's about. After that, the chief of staff offered to resign. But Milanovic said I won't accept it. She was given not to harm the government's reputation, but the government's reputation was neither touched nor touched. Can you imagine? He said the disputed contract signed between PLINACRO and his chairman's wife's company was specifically sought by the chairman of the PLINACRO Supervisory Board, Ivo Smrić. And Ivo Smocic is a former member of the Croatian Communist Union at the end of the 1980s, and he was also an opponent of Ivica Racanu as chairman of the Central Committee of the Communists, a professor at the Faculty of Economics and a member of the SDP. Of course, nothing is disputed for Milanovic. He says my conscience is as clean as my colleague. He noted that Ivo Smrić was his choice as director and that it was still his choice. If he wanted a simple person with experience, age, credibility that he could do that job, that there were no objections, they're gone now. He is my choice, I take responsibility for it and also for him, Milanovic says. And of course, when a party court like this determines the course of course, there is a process. If in the beginning, if things like this had been sanctioned then we wouldn't have gotten to the courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29644	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this report, and we will vote when the conditions are met, i.e. 12 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29645	The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant the authorisation for the deprivation of liberty, the determination of detention of the investigating prison and the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Sauche of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. First of all, I am voting on the motion for a decision which reads: "Acquittal for the deprivation of freedom, the determination of detention of an investigative prison against Tomislav Saucha is granted to representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. CUS48/17 of 9 February 2017 sent by DORH Act No. CRDO192/2017 of 9 February 2017 on grounds of suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed to abuse of positions and powers referred to in Article 291(2) in connection with paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penal Code." Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the 135 votes are in favour, without abstentions and 1 against decisions made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Secondly, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to be approved for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Saucha in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. CUS48/17 of 9 February 2017 sent by DORH Act No. CRDO192/2017 of 9 February 2017 on grounds of suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed to abuse of positions and powers referred to in Article 291(2) in connection with paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penal Code." Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, most of the 134 votes voted in favour, without abstention and with one against, we have made a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the continuation of criminal proceedings against Nikola Grumoje of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision which reads: "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to proceed with the criminal proceedings pending before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb is denied, business number 20K69/16-26 against MP Nikola Grumoje on the case of private prosecutor Ranko Ostojsic for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penal Code/11." Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that by the majority of the votes of 130 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and no votes, we have decided that it was proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Mare Kristic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision, which reads: "In the course of the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against the representative, Mara Christic, at the request of the injured, as the subsidiary prosecutor, Joza Ostojic, in the case of K50/2015, is denied. which is led before the Municipal Court of Dubrovnik for the offence against personal freedom, the threat referred to in Article 129(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Criminal law in connection with Article 38 of the same law." Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that a unanimous decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission with 132 votes in favour. The next item is the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report on the start of the term of office of MP Zoran Milanovic. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the stay of the representative's term of office, which reads: "On 1 March 2017, the stay of MP Zoran Milanovic's seat begins." Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, by a majority of 134 votes, we have voted in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next item is the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29647	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 14th session held on 17 February 2017, colleagues and colleagues of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief Draženko Pandek to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ranko Ostojić, representative in the Croatian Parliament for the crime of libel referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Ranko Ostojić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: during the term of its term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against Representative Rank Ostojić, by the representative of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Drazenko Pandek of Sesveda on 6 February 2017 in the Municipal Court of Sesvet, for the criminal offence referred to in Article 149(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Penalty law. The explanation is clear, it's a private lawsuit and we've taken the same attitude as boredom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29648	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 102 votes in favour, with no abstentions and 2 against decisions taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. That's what we do today's work. The session continues on Wednesday 1 March at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act with the final draft law. Thank you. Session adjourned at 16.35 p.m. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29650	Thank you, Mr. President. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 15th session held on 10 March 2017 the proposal of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia for the appointment of deputy representative Zoran Milanovic, who was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 7 March 2017. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate was the basis of Article 14 of Representative Zoran Milanovic. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 1 March 2017, that there are no candidates with won preferential votes and that the Social Democratic Party of Croatia is in line with Article 42(3). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Allen Prelec as deputy representative. This meets the law lays down the conditions for the start of acting as deputy deputy representative of Allen Prelec. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the start of acting as deputy representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29651	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the esteemed MPs to vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 116 votes are in favour, with no abstentions and one against decisions made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Since MPs Arsen Bauk and MP Branko Bačić requested the opportunity to speak for five minutes, what I must ask since you have the opportunity to request a break in order to get it. Representative Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29652	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29653	Congratulations to the representative. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29654	Now, we'd like to move to the Mandate-Immunity Commission Report, so I'd like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Zarko Tušek, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 16th session held on 15 March 2017, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief Ante Kulusic to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Klarin, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Ivan Klarin is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and is based on articles 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. Without discussion, the committee is based on Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the following decision be denied, during the term of its term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Klarin, at the request of the attorney of private prosecutor Ante Kulusic, following an action brought on 29 June 2015 to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal offence referred to in Article 149(2). The Penal Code and I remain in my practice so far that in the case of private lawsuits, no immunity can be lifted from the representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29656	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29657	I'll be very brief. Dear Mr Vice President, we will vote for this report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. However, we have met the Mandate Commission and I would like to meet the plenary session that we demand a change of practice regarding the removal of immunity at the request of the State's Attorney's Office. That's what this report says, so that's why we're saying it now. Here's what we want to introduce you to, and we're going to vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29658	Okay, thank you very much. That concludes the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in favour of that decision? 114 votes for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a unanimous decision has been made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. That's what we're gonna end up with today... Dear colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29659	Mr. Vice President, please from you or from professional services one explanation. You mentioned the name of a club that has 4 representatives of which 2 are independent, and you mentioned 3 parties, i.e. it is specifically called the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club. There are no more members of the Rada Party and solidarity in that club, so I would ask that the name of the club be established in a business manner by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29660	Okay. That's what we're going to check, professional services are going to check it out. We will continue with the work of this session on Wednesday 22 March with the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 78. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 12.40 hours. The following is the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 17th session held on 23 March 2017 the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Marija Hrebac from Karlovac, Nancy Marin from Samobor, Vedarana Sharec from Sibenik, and Jadranska banka d.d. Sibenik sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against the doctor of science Branimir Bunjc, representative in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. Mr Branimir Bunjac is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and is based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it cannot be initiated, nor a criminal procedure can be conducted. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 6 votes for and 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament proposes the adoption of the following decision: During the term of the parliamentary term, the approval for the launch of the criminal proceedings against Representative Vladimir Bunjc is denied at the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Marija Hrebac, Nensi Marin, Vedrana Sarić, and Jadranska Banka d.d. On 17 and 20 March 2017, Sibenik filed a complaint to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal offence of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Explanation. The Commission took a principled position that, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, it is necessary to propose, at the request of the Croatian Parliament, an authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings as well as a court which conducts the procedure in order to enable the Constitution and the law to carry out the judicial, or judicial authority independently under the Constitution and law. However, in the case of private prosecutors, the Commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament, as so far, to deny the authorisation to launch, or conduct, a criminal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29663	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. He appeared on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. I don't see him here. He's losing his word. There are no other applications. I therefore conclude the debate and vote on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Please vote. 116 votes for, no abstentions and 1 against, I find that the majority of the votes have been decided by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29664	And we're moving on to the next point. It is - A report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mr. Žarko Tušek to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29665	At the 18th session held on 13 April 2017, the Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime from 10 April 2017 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia from 10 April 2017 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Tomislav Sauche of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed two crimes of abuse of the position of power referred to in Article 291(1). The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Penalty law. Tomislav Saucha is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 5 votes in favour of and 3 votes against the Croatian Parliament's proposal for the adoption of the next decision "Approving for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Saucha of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the DORH on 10 April 2017, shall be sent through the DORH of 10 April 2017 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed two crimes of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(1) of the Treaty of 10 April 2017. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Penalty law. In this case, but most of the votes, not unanimously the Mandate-Immunity Commission has stuck to the practice so far that, in the case of a request by the DORH or a court, it is authorised to initiate a criminal proceedings against a representative who has representative immunity in this case, the representative of Tomislav Saucha. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29666	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Living Wall and the SNAGA representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29667	Honorable MPs, fellow respected. For the first time, I suspected the DORH independence of the DORH when the famous graphite charge arrived, so that was what the pattern of this size was supposed to be, two such graphite whose total damage is supposed to be 30 kuna if you're looking at the services of some work, so that's not even an hour but let's just say that eight hours at the student center is the minimum hour for one day's work, that's 160 kuna in essence and a little color and water. And I wondered then if the lady who works at the MIP who's employed who's an employee of the Parliament had ever seen such an indictment in her life. I didn't. And I'm telling her the whole of Dalmatia graphics by HDZ is never a single HDZ man that's why he hasn't been processed. And all of this later came to my official meeting with the Ambassador of Belarus in Vienna and is also a representative of the OSCE and we touched on the issues of human rights and freedoms in Croatia, I said I was being prosecuted for graphite in Croatia. And she told me about the graphite, I say yes, and the sentence is up to two years in prison for it. She tells me, Ivana, she tells me in Belarus if someone writes graphite, say, against Lukashenko for vandalism as damages to other people's property go to court, judge them there, and the press comes. These are trials because of graphite are a spectacle, an attraction, and then the EU to which Croatia belongs says it is wrong to judge people because of graphite, they say it is a pressure on freedom of opinion, expression, limited art, etc. But she says to me at the same time in the EU in the parliament of a member is being tried by a representative for graphitery, imagine what hypocrisy it is. So Croatia, for example, condemns the persecution of someone in Syria who goes to prison for, say, writing graphs against Bashar al-Assad, and at the same time the Croatian state processes its own representative and threatens to punish him for up to two years in prison. It's scary. And she says I can't believe it. It's possible, I swear to you, I've experienced it. She didn't believe me at first, so she asked me three times if I was sure. And then Mr. Sauch came along with his story and team of journals, and now the first thing that got into my eye was a match for the moment of debate about Minister Barisic and a request for his detention. I, as a representative in the Assembly, got the impression that the aim of the indictment was to draw attention from the debate on Barisic. And it really happened, the next day no one was interested in Barisic Pavo but was interested in Saucha Tomislav. And that the indictment was strange to testify at what speed everything was going on. So let's say for some let's say a relatively small amount for the state half a million kuna, within a few days literally a man from the moment he signed the art of art until the moment he ended up in prison everything happened. And more interestingly, Prime Minister Plenkovic is calling at the government of State's Attorney Cvitan at the time. Be careful when the affair with Agrokora broke, when it was discovered that the boss was issuing bonds without cover, that he had 50 billion kunas and more, it was almost half of the Croatian budget that had no place to go back, that he had been cheating on anyone who could cheat, then Prime Minister Plenkovic did not invite Mr. Cvitan to the government and said what you were doing on this issue. Don't just tell me it's some clerk in Agrokor who's responsible for the bonds without covering that it's not like Ivica Todoric. And so in the case of Agrokor where it was a minimum of 50 billion kuna, there is no Prime Minister calling Dinka Cvitana on Mark's square, but in the case of Mr. Sauche for 500 thousand kuna coming Mr. Cvitan making statements and be careful what Plenkovic says, don't just happen to think that some secretary is responsible, alleging that he is guilty of exactly Tomislav Sach. Still as the investigation took place, there were more details that hadn't been seen by the state's attorney's office than I should've done when I went to investigate, he realized, hey, so these were stealing on the diaries and after I wasn't there anymore. And today, the crown witness against him, the secretary and herself under investigation, and one step away from the indictment and has been transferred from the government for that very reason. And remember, the prime minister was saying, don't just say that by chance the secretary is responsible for all of this. So what happens next? What's going on next? It's very simple for Mr. Sauche to sign, but it's two printed letters. And says the expert, yesterday was a huge headline, all the media reported it. Be careful which detail, that all of Sauch's signatures are identical to each other. And the natural variation is in the signature, each of us when it's signed, each of our signatures is going to be a little different. Now, you all know, every time it's signed, it's hard for someone to tell you to copy the signature you signed a week ago, the question is, would you be able to copy it and all of Sauch's signatures are identical to each other? And the expert says, the expert says it's obvious that those signatures, if they hadn't been written, were signed by Tomislav Souch. And now what's going on? The DORH instead of realizing that it entered a cloudy political game, and it is clearly a cloudy political game, the DORH means admits that it has not thoroughly conducted the investigation, be careful in which way, by suddenly saying, and there are some more controversial diaries. If the investigation had been thoroughly conducted, would the DORH suddenly see all the controversial diaries? I would. It would simply take the whole material, studioically, mind the thought, studioically analyze it all, and then make one request for an investigation. However, the investigation was politically motivated, ad hoc on haste and therefore there are still those diaries that were not included in the first request. And the DORH instead of seeing that it's a strange game, or they know it's a strange game, but instead of overlapping their ears, they say we're looking for a new removal of immunity for Sauch. My colleagues from SDP, I told them back then, this Saucho thing, this pace, the speed, the search for detention, I said this isn't a legal process, this is political surgery. And I called on the DORH to deal with real crime in Agrokor. And the investigation would probably never have started if Bozo Petrov hadn't filed a criminal complaint. Imagine what a sad fact it was that the president of the parliament had to file criminal charges to let him know, be careful to let the DORHU know that Mr Todorovic no longer has political protection. So it wasn't until that moment that the DORH went into investigation. And what happened to me? Says the Pernar investigation takes pictures with children by schools, says DORH, says Cvitan we are conducting an investigation. And there's a situation of corporation with 60,000 employees collapsing like a map tower. Cvitan didn't show up in front of the press right now, and he said we're conducting an investigation. No, he was waiting. And why was he waiting? Because his son is the manager of the consummation. Well, this Todoric has captured whoever he can. And the former Governor of Rohatinski has been incarcerated. Our minister, Maric, was also his manager after all. And that's the team. And now what's going on? It is obvious that there are certain companies such as Agrokor that are outside the law, which operate on the edge or outside the law, which are protected from all state institutions. And instead of the state's attorney's office dealing with this type of crime, it means serious crime that's going to get thousands of people killed, the state's attorney's office expeditively, lightningly, ad hoc, sent to a colleague named Sauch. You know, when you get to jail, the first thing they do, or in custody, is they take your shoelaces off like you don't hang yourself. And when I led the protests against HDZ, they took my shoelaces off every time. And I've been interned so often in that Oran detention facility that in the end, I bought a pair of shoes on my chin that I don't have to take off and take back my shoelaces. And now not only that, but when you go to Remetinec you see an anal opening, it's the whole procedure, it's like that Rambo movie in America when in the police, when they shower it, like that. And now what's going on, I knew what Sauchu was waiting for, I told the people not your own colleague, don't do it to him, because tomorrow you could take your shoelaces off. However, my appeals did not bear fruit. And I was the only one who voted against his removal of immunity. And I am very pleased that the SDP has opened its eyes and now realizes that the purpose of this subsequent slide investigation that the DORH is doing is not really knowing the actual state of play but rather the continuation of the political games that Cvitan is involved in just to continue his mandate. And I'll tell you one more thing, I've asked Cvitana, O.K., here, we have one criminal record against Sauche, one object, and now a quick man is going to jail. I ask how it has not yet begun any trial for Milan Bandic, who has over 200 criminal charges, etc. And that, cases are over 20 years old, since 2000, when he signed a harmful contract to build water purifiers. You know what Cvitan said to me? He says, listen, Ivane the Great, Bandic is a supernatural creature, a supernatural creature. And my colleague Sauch is not a supernatural creature, so come on, old man, take your bag and bye bye bye. And what do I mean by that? Unfortunately, the DORH doesn't deal with large-scale crime, but catch one detail, catch someone as a suspect, like here we have him, now we're gonna catch them and end up a dead end. Turns out it wasn't the man's fault in the end. And for this reason, as I did last time, I will oppose the request to remove the immunity of my colleague, Sauchi, and I urge all my colleagues from my representative's club not to participate in this pre-election circus directed by the attorney general. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29668	You're all a little late for the replicas, but I'll take it. So, the first replica representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29669	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pernar, you have now essentially said one very important fact, which is that the laws in Croatia apply selectively, that one man is subject to one law, one rule, another man is subject to other laws, other rules. As recently mentioned well for 16000 kuna, a poor woman is thrown out of her apartment. For 16 billion kuna, the tycoon is left to live in a castle. And it's really not a good message, because I can really wonder if your life is worth more than mine, or if my life is worth more than yours? Did we in the 21st century when we live in some highly developed technology society come to a level that we don't really know humanity anymore, that we don't know some sort of elemental natural legality anymore? Mr. Dinko Cvitan has lost all credibility and for this reason I support your opposition to his findings. Indeed, there is no man in Croatia, and most regrettable among the lawyers who have a good opinion of the state's attorney. They are almost in agreement that the previous state attorney was very weak in his work, and that his successor is currently only his pale copy. Is there therefore a higher score than that which for someone to express his own profession. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29670	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29671	Thank you. Well, yes, sir. The observations are obvious, but what's interesting, there's that page on Facebook... HDZ's fighting corruption, that weird moment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I remember as today when Prime Minister Plenkovic brought in a state attorney at the first request and as we will fight corruption, and he is the president of a political party who is rightly sentenced to get out of the state budget, i.e. Unauthorizedly, she was sentenced to draw 22 million kuna. And then, of course, constitutionally, the Supreme Court falls all judgments against both Sanader and HDZ. And to them, Mr. Sanader was innocent until proven otherwise. So it's only the moment when it's really let's say it's inadmissiblely found guilty. Only then did he actually find himself in trouble. Until in Mr. Sauche's case, legal practice changed, and suddenly a man is guilty until he proves he's innocent. And how will they prove he's innocent? Hold all the institutions, hold the media. I used to get the same at first what I was wondering, what so is that possible? Is that possible? Because when I asked a colleague of Saucha's over there Fred Matic, I asked him, so is it possible that he wasn't really guilty? You know what Fred Matic told me? Veli Ivane prisons are full of innocent people. That's what he told me. Because I was wondering how it was possible for a man to be in custody without being guilty? Veli Ivane prisons are full of innocent people. It's our judiciary, and many of the culprits are at large and laughing, and the worst of them is the one who has the address on Himper 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29672	Representative Zarko Tušek reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29673	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Pernar, I am indeed having this debate in the case of my colleague Saucha, for the second time here, truly human and in the context of some kind of leadership, i.e. I have tried to exclude myself from any political evaluations, especially some personal qualifications towards a colleague who has found himself in a very complex, legal and human and personal situation. And indeed, I want to believe that he is innocent and I really want to believe that institutions are judicial, i.e. that he will be able to prove his innocence to the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia. What I would like to say is that, unfortunately, at the last session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, we have changed our practice, i.e. The position of the SDP club went to the point that the practice that was so far no longer exists. Of course there will be room and time to discuss it too, but I would like to refer to this part of you where you are actually giving a political assessment of the work of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia which I actually have no knowledge of. These are your personal assessments and where you put this whole case in line with the party I belong, and that doesn't seem particularly correct from your position. Because if you have now articulated that the price of the current remainder of the state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia, this process, and in some way you have tried to communicate through this debate, then I could ask you as incorrectly what was the price of his arrival as the chief state attorney since he was appointed by the parliamentary majority who today is a parliamentary minority? I ask you not to use such qualifications so simply, because in a way, you are in fact fully derivating the position of the attorney general, and in this case, You tie her to the work of the party that I belong to, and we have absolutely nothing to do with his arrival and his work. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] That's all I wanted to say. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29674	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29675	Here's Mr. Dear Tusek, I'm asking you honestly that the state's attorney was really impartial and correct in the Sauch case, if he were, let's start assuming he was, would you immediately see all the issues or would you find out later because you know what might happen tomorrow? He can tell the DORH tomorrow we found another warrant, we're asking that the MIP session meet again because that's what happened right now. They had no idea a hundred warrants then five more we have a disputed warrant. What, and how come they didn't see all those warrants right away? So the investigation was conducted, or pre-examinations were conducted very sloppyly. And if they had been thoroughly conducted, we would have taken off our immunity first in a set for all the warrants, not for them to pull new ones out of the hat afterwards. The other thing is, if the chief state attorney hadn't politicised the DORH Institute and privatised it for himself, would the request to send one agent to prison on the day of Barisic's request for his shift and debate. And ask yourself one more question, who are the people of the Croatian Parliament who, immediately after the removal of immunity, ended up in custody or in prison? You know who? Branimir Glavas, who was convicted and eventually convicted, was again convicted of torture and murder of civilians and Ivo Sanader, who was the one for millions of embezzlements. So we pushed our colleague Sauch together into this elite circle of people. Ask yourself if he's even guilty, if he really belongs to such a team, even if he's guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29676	Thank you. Representative Nenad Stazic reported for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29677	I thank the President of the Parliament. I will begin, and I hope to continue in principle, which is representative immunity, when it is introduced and why it exists. The parliamentary immunity was introduced long ago to protect parliamentarians from their will to the king. And later he was detained to protect parliamentarian from his will to the executive authority. Is he the privilege of a representative, the privilege of a representative? No, I don't. Does he protect counsel from prosecution? Not at all, persecution will be carried out when parliamentary immunity passes, or when his term of office expires. Therefore, no one protects anyone and no one is privileged. But is there reasonable doubt that political persecution, purely theoretically, can be carried out over the representative? It's possible. Why is she possible? Because of the choice of the attorney general. He is elected in parliament on the government's proposal, which means he is elected by the parliamentary majority. And we can assume that such a chosen chief state attorney will carry out the will of such a parliamentary majority. To be clear right now, I'm here to say I don't mean Mr. Cwitan, I don't. Finally, Mr Cvitan was elected by the will of the HDZ and the will of the SDP of the main parties, and when Mr Bajic was elected by the Reverend, Mr Cvitan was his first deputy. So I speak here in principle, abstracting from names and last names. Is it our duty to see that fact, and I think it is, and when we face a case like this, to consider our practice so far. And our practice so far I realized was wrong. It was a custom and it was such a practice that immunity was never taken off at the request of a private person on a private suit but that it was always not critically removed at the request of the State's Attorney's office. I think we should reconsider that practice. Nothing will happen if the prosecution is carried out after the term of office, but nothing. We've had the process for 20 years, so what happens? Nothing. So what happens here if it starts four years later? And if the first day of the term of office requires the removal of immunity, nothing will happen, but we will reject one possibility, and in the end, if you want to protect the attorney-in-law to make such demands and bring his position or his objectivity into question. The state's attorney must know he can make a request and will be rejected, as long as the term of office is held except for criminal offences for which the representative has been found in the execution and for which a sentence of more than five years is foreseen. And that means if the MP killed him, they found him with a gun in his smoking hand. I mean, then. But for this second thing, we have to do our own practice so far, I think we're thinking about it again, and we've discussed it at the SDP club and why we've first allowed the persecution of Sauche, the prosecution and detention for the first time. Saucha was detained because the argument was either that he would influence or that he could influence witnesses. After Saucha's knowledge that the practice was continued and when he had already left, the state's attorney did not request detention for a person the same state's attorney's office claims to have worked with Saucho together. And who could have affected the witnesses, Sach, who was no longer in the system or the secretary who remained in the system, so what's more logical? I, we can't judge here, I don't know what happened and I don't want to judge about it. But I don't want to expose Sauch as my colleague to a possible chic executive or to those who would like to see the executive authority. I think we made a mistake in the Pernar case, and that's what I was saying. That's where I was talking from. Because the state's attorney's office, not under Cwitan, not under Bajic, under some others, long ago made such a failure to persecute people who, criminals who have confessed, Alexander Rabbit's murder because they were questioned without a lawyer's presence, so the court had to let them go later. Twice you can't be tried in the same court and people are free. I'd dare say a deliberate mistake by the state's attorney's office because I can't believe they were so ignorant back then. Well, now the 11-year-old girl's killer is free and the Pernar who wrote the graphite in front of him is being prosecuted. I wasn't up for it, I was talking like that, I'm talking again today. I think we made a mistake in the case of fellow Culei, we made the same mistake. And we shouldn't have removed his immunity, and I'm aware of that today. Mr. Culey was breaking a bilingual record, it's vandalism which, I'm sick of but slowly, but slowly, so there will be opportunities for Culeu to be tried for it. Is that why we had to take off his immunity? Culej doesn't break now, these records are still there, Culej doesn't break them, he broke them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, because they broke them out because the government was Zoran Milanovic, so it's clear, and they wanted their favorites to come, and that's why Culej broke it. And he would have broken it all until HDZ put it on the list and come to the Parliament. And now that he's in the Parliament what he's about to break, it's stupid to kick his ass. Well, then I'm up for us to see it as an intelligent person to see it and not to let our fellow Culei go now, be patient, be patient with that state's attorney's office for another three years. The HDZ will certainly not put it on the list anymore, so it will be, he will not win the term of office, so there will be opportunities for him to be tried as well. So let me get this straight. I call on you all to be completely principled, completely principled, I know this may seem very antipathic if one SDP is held up for another SDP and not for someone from another party. But I assure you, I realize we've made a mistake and we've been wrong so far. And I invite you to consider this practice so far, bad and to change it, all together, all together. Yeah, and the state's attorney also knows the state's attorney's office is in vain to ask them to do anything except for crimes for which the sentence has been prevented for over five years. And so we move away from every thought and assume that the state's attorney is working in the political interest of the ruling. He doesn't need that either. He doesn't need that either. It hurts him, it hurts society as a whole. Here, that's my call.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29678	Representative Milanka Opačić asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29679	Thank you, Mr. President. You spoke to Mr. Stazic about the practice, that if the DORH asked, we should review the mandate. Well, I'm just going to remind myself of some names, exclusively politicians we've been removing immunity from, who have been arrested, they've been brought in in handcuffs very theatrically, obviously that the people would be impressed, but we've actually destroyed people's lives. So, for example. We had three court disputes with Polancec, a man was tried for only one, two fell into the water, so the man was innocent, 10 years of his life we destroyed, or rather those who persecuted him at that moment. Berislav Roncevic was also in court for 10 years, freed of all charges. Milan Bandic, you have been speaking here in custody, the trial has not even begun. Marina Lovric Merzel, also a politician who was brought into hand in handcuffs, very theatrically, still has no first court hearing after 3 years. Bojan Sobol, husband of Gordana Sobol political, was released after all the charges, but also for 10 years in court. Ivan Herak, also a former politician who was also led in handcuffs, was also released after court proceedings. And I'm going to remember a doctor who unfortunately died thanks to the persecutions, that's dr. Fired Simic in Rijeka, which was also detained for corruption with handcuffs. And my question is, where's the problem? Does the DORH really do a dirty job? Who is here in the service of politics or the judiciary is so corrupt and so influenced by politics that it is able to behave like this? This is just a small number of people's names and last names that both DORH and the judiciary certainly had a profound impact on their lives and on the lives of their families. And that's why those who do it, maybe this debate of mine is much more for the state of the DORHU, when the report comes, I'm going to do this again, maybe it's really time to think about how and how people are dealing with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29680	Thank you. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29681	All the names you listed, they come from different political groups and from different parties. And that's just proof that what I said was right. Because it's not about protecting one political option. But these theatre detentions and we're asking ourselves, so how do the press know someone's gonna be in custody at 5:00 in the morning? How do they know that without being notified that they're putting cameras in good places in time and they're on duty there? Destroy someone's life, so his kids are watching these theater arrests and his kids are asking him, so dad you're really a thief, so is that true that I have to listen to it on TV? Because you know, because when an anonymous thief is brought in, there's no such thing on TV, it's not on TV, but when a representative is brought in, then all the TVs are there. So, with all our arguments and this human, let's add this human. Why would a representative be more exposed than anyone else? Why? Because then he's not equal to the law, and even if he's a criminal because criminals don't have it, they don't come to the public. So here's my colleague, and I'm using this answer to your replica to really invite everyone to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29682	Representative Gordan Maras has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29683	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, you have touched certain things in your debate and I would say the politicization of certain processes and I will tell you that the DORH is also because people do there, too, are not super mani insensitive to the incentives and the media and the objections and the praises and everything. In a situation where they make a mistake and when that mistake is exposed to a wide circle of people, the public, sometimes condemnation is harder to admit a mistake in this situation. Who will now admit the error and tell Sauche's fault, we haven't examined everything, we should have seen all the travel orders, we should have examined all the circumstances and reached certain conclusions. Who's going to admit a mistake? Well, they're the same there, people. It's hard for them to admit it and it's hard for them to say it. Now will be called of course on the profession, on professionalism and on etc. That works. And that's why you should also see how to deal with situations like this, because now with Sauche with these acts that are speculative, which have continued we have some works that have just been put in place like this to improve the impression of attorneyship towards the public. Here's my impression of the whole situation now. And that's because it's harder to admit a mistake, so I guess everyone sees if all the acts haven't been examined that there's been some mistake. Well, wouldn't it be normal if someone from the D.A.'s office said we didn't examine everything, we didn't check everything, it was wrong, and so on. But we didn't hear that. And that's why we need to discuss certain things. on the following requests and make certain decisions which are not in the [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]] In accordance with the practice so far. [[Mr. Maras!]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29684	Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29685	If that's how fellow Maras says it is, it's worse. If the State's Attorney's Office insists on continuing persecution or even expanding persecution just to justify itself for sloppy work at the beginning and for Saucha's persecution from the very beginning. Because look, from the moment we first removed Sauchi's immunity, we learned different new elements. That's where Saucha was looking for a new graphological art, then from an authorized graphologist. He was found completely indistinguishable from what the State's Attorney's Department obtained at 48 hours, at 24 hours in as many Sacha 180 signatures. In 24 hours. Well, that's the genius. Well, he should be proposed somewhere to be president of the World Witch Association, because it's a shame to camp here if he's so capable of in 24 hours but without a doubt reporting 180 signatures. But we have a different finding now. We have a polygraph that Saucha himself went to because the state's attorney wouldn't put it on a polygraph, and he asked for it. The polygraph isn't proof, but it's an indication, but it's an indication of whether someone's lying or telling the truth. And we've had these two new elements since DORH's last permission to carry out Sauch's persecution, and we don't have the State's Attorney's Office's testimony about it. We don't! So if colleague Maras is still in the game that the State's Attorney's office is just trying to protect itself and justify itself and he won't say if you look at the people, we were wrong, we were working a little fast, we're retreating. We'll see if we can slow the team down. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29686	Thank you. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29687	Thank you. I remember when I asked Mr. Cwitan why the charges against Bozidar Calmeta were filed only now if they knew the same things they knew for five years now. So why wait five years if the knowledge hasn't changed. He had no answer to my question. So in the Calmeta case where the indictment is much more serious and much more difficult, at no point in the investigation or the prosecution was sought by Calmet's incarceration to influence witnesses. And that crew around him weren't harmless people, they were serious numbers and I'd say serious crime puts him on the line. And in the case of Sauche, what we find out today is that there are some warrants, two, three days. I'm looking at Sauche no more between us. How, man? As in one case DORH is expedient, and in the other, nothing, it's been stretching for years, etc. And you know what I'm sorry about? I'm sorry that Mr. Cvitan in the future when he asks for immunity to the MPs, he should sit here as well as the legislators when they are discussing and answering the questions of the MPs. I believe that citizens would have a lot of that to ask him and many answers to hear from him, to see what, how he justifies his sloppy work. And I repeat that the investigation was conducted immediately would have made it clear that it had been messing with these findings all along, not just during the Sauche. And I remember when I said the only problem with Sauchin was that he wasn't the head of the office at Eve Sanader's time because then you'd just tell him that Ivo Sanader told you that and he'd save himself. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29688	Thank you. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29689	My colleague Pernar shouldn't have absolute confidence in our judiciary, but our judiciary didn't deserve anything, but nothing at all. The HDZ youth in Karlovac was savaged, broke half of the Carlovec there, conducted a procedure, you know how it ended? They've gone out of date, they won't be punished, it's HDZ youth, though, so it's neither Saucha nor Ivan Pernar, it's HDZ youth. We'll never know the name of the judge and the judge who conducted this procedure by taking them into oblivion, we won't. But that it had something to do with it being a youth of the HDZ, and that's not what I'm going to be convinced of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29690	Representative Zarko Tušek reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29691	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Stazić, regardless of the ethicality of all these situations and in relation to the representatives of colleagues who have been or have been in a previous assembly or have today been the subject of the Mandate-Immunity Commission only now especially from your position since the Sach case is on the agenda, I still can't say that I disagree with much of your debate. I think she had a head and a tail and she opened up in the metrics of an important topic about the overall operational work of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and we've discussed this and we've already been to the meetings of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. From the position of me as chairman, he went to the appeal not to change the practice of not voting until we agree on a new practice together. I would really like to believe that it is possible to achieve this, perhaps it is one of the directions that you said was to raise the threshold in some way the tolerance of a level of crime that would possibly be, although it is in the jurisdiction of the DORH for which immunity would not be lifted, and for some serious crime, it would automatically remove immunity and allow the DORH to process the whole case at the same time. Perhaps that is the direction in which our debate should go, but it would appeal that if we change practice to change it unanimously and jointly and not to bring the Mandate-Immunity Commission into the situation that it must arbitration and revote the case to the occasion because it really would not be correct. And I would like to believe that we have reached such democratic standards and principles that this would be possible, but noticeing some other cases of particularly individual lawsuits that were not within the authority of the DORH, I did not quite get the impression that we had developed to this extent by democratic standards. There were all kinds of debates until midnight unnecessary even about those people who weren't here who couldn't discuss themselves at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29692	Thank you. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29693	I thank you for this replica. I'm glad you saw the principle of my debate because it really was. I had no intention of objecting to you as chairman of the commission for what you've been doing so far as it's been practice, because it's been practice until now, and if you went to change it on your own, you'd probably have made a mistake. But by Friday, by the time we hold a vote at the plenary session on this issue, we have time to reach a consensus on this. And thank you for the praises you've given me and I truly accept them with gratitude and hope that you will, as chairman of this committee within your club, achieve this practice to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29694	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29695	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. My fellow Striker, if a lie were gold, you'd be the richest man here. As for his young colleague, Sauch, I trust him to be innocent, but let him go to court, and let him prove his innocence there, as many before him, we will be there together. I agree with you when you talk about justice and the DORH because in Croatia we even have published the book "Court and Police Mafia" examples from Croatian courts and court practices that show that organised crime in the judiciary destroys individuals, families, the economy and the state. There are examples of people who complain about their actions in Croatia, but there you talked about by Saucha next to the judiciary and the other one, you talked about me a little bit. You were talking about a charge against me where I'm also falsely accused of breaking Cyrillic plates and you, in that case, when you confirm that lie, lie again. So I wasn't breaking Cyrillic plates, it was performed by some other friends of mine, it was one performance of their form not agreeing with the setting of the same plates. I spoke there, I didn't speak there to enter the Parliament because at that moment it was neither intention nor I knew nor planned nor wanted. You know me very well from Borov Selo when you almost fainted after 45 minutes of my speech, of course from my head, not as some reading pamphlets or repeating one of those same things. The fact that I got 11 thousand votes in my neighborhood tells you about me I'd like you to turn around and find that you can collect so many votes. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Did you all get that much together?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29696	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29697	And HDZ put in no put I'll be here with you or without you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29698	Agent Culey, thank you. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29699	If you're going to be here then you'll certainly be without me and without my vote, but whether you'll be it will be decided by the voters. I don't know what you were doing there, I really don't know. I don't know your indictment I haven't read. I doubt you just said that because there is no verbal delinquent in Croatia and certainly no one would press charges against you if you were just saying and nothing else, you probably did a little something. But I'm not going to get into the measure of things, I'm not concerned with the measure of things. I was here mentioning you, confessing that I was personally wrong because I voted in favour of removing immunity from you. And that's all to be left until your term is up, so when it runs out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29700	Representative Ivan Pernar has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29701	Thank you. I'd like to say that there's one, let's say hypocritical little practice in the House that when you vote on someone's immunity, then the MPs who are saying that Sauch is being sent into custody, say we don't prejudge whether you're guilty or not, like some other fortifications and we're just letting you go into custody, like we're actually not the ones who are actually taking part in the whole farce. This reminded me of Matthew 27.24. "When Pilate saw that he had achieved nothing and that there was an ever greater turmoil, he took water and washed his hands before the people." So Pontius Pilate was essentially going to say, I had nothing to do with this man, that's your Jewish business, you calculate each other. But I remember when I invited my colleagues from the SDP, don't wash your hands of me and let me in on that judiciary, because what if that judiciary gets me, I don't believe in, like Sanader in a positive outcome for myself, etc. Because I know that the indictment is a political structure, and I know that those who judge me are HDZ people, and I know that the blame is in advance, as I would say, decided and that the trial is a reform, that it's only a matter of formalities. That's what I remember when it was Saddam Hussein's trial, when he asked me why, during the trial, why don't you just hang me, why all this. And the judge says, we need to conduct the procedure. And I would like to say that unlike you from the SDP, I will not wash my hands from my colleague Tomislav Saucha, I did not last time, I will not stand by him in this carved process, in this play for the public where the public is entertained by the belief that a war against crime is under way, etc., and in reality, the greatest crime of cheating on suppliers in terms of billions, pushing these regress bonds into their hands, 2,000 businesses, 2,000 suppliers is now at a dive, one foot ahead of the sink. The DORH I see does not seek arrest and investigation for Mr. Ivica Todorovic at all. There's a question of why. So they could grab hold of something right away, arrest him immediately and immediately add some evidence as they did in the Sauche case. So it was ad hoc, first you go into custody, here's a couple of things, then they add up later. Why don't they treat Todorovic like that? And because what they're going to say is for sure, listen, it's a very complex object, there's been a lot of things here, and we, as long as we analyzed it, wanted to create one, to say it, in order to express, one thorough investigation to do and so on. If such a serious measure as detention is required, isn't it the minimum that should be done in thorough pre-examination actions so that they can go to the BOLO, at the time of detention? But as we can see, this Parliament was last time with only one vote against, against mine, for the man who sits on my right to fly into custody, and then in custody, explain to your cellmates that you're not guilty, that they set you up, etc. What I'm afraid of is that we haven't learned from this, and I want to thank my colleague, Nenada Stazic, because he's very good and picturesque in his 9.5-minute presentation, in fact, explained the measure of things. I'm afraid even if all the HDZ people have heard what we're talking about here today, they'll vote unanimously for the expansion of the investigation tomorrow, even though it's a dispute and first investigation and detention, and that's why the second one loses every credibility. Unfortunately, the Croatian judiciary releases the highest level of crime and destroys judgments such as in the case of Ivo Sanader or in the case of Cobankovic, condemns him to a symbolic penalty for peeling potatoes for the damage of 16 million kuna. Imagine the damage of 16 million kuna. A fellow Sauch, assuming he was guilty of half a million kunas. It is simple mathematics, 32 times less damage is placed on the burden of Sauchi than is placed on Mr. Cobankovic. But what happened, Cobankovic as soon as he found himself in a ticklish position that he raised the money he started talking about how he was wearing, i.e. How Fiolić I don't know he wore in a carousel box and money to Sanader, etc., they all started messing around and saying what the DORH wanted to hear. And finally, how did the process end for Evey Sanader? This is a very important detail. Everyone from HDZ caught in any crime he just said so to me, Ivo Sanader. That's what DORH's instructions were. And what happened? All of them were released and all of a sudden all of the defendants became witnesses and all of the guilt, all of the guilt came down to one man, and then this one man was finally freed from guilt, and today he's at large. And what's going on? What's going on? We have a HDZ case convicted together with Sanader and released together with Sanader. It's about making these billions, i.e. Millions of large to go into the curtain, so that none of it will be like a colleague for HDZ youth in Karlovac, and here in the case of the Sauche investigation is expedient. And you know Mr. Sauch that you're not the only man with an expeditional investigation and indictment? I got it, I allegedly committed a crime on a guy in 12 months, and I got the charges already in the second one. So about two months ago, it took them two months to press charges against me for the graphite. I asked Mr. Cwitan why this indictment? What exactly does he want to show that indictment? And he told me saying Ivane told her that if I hadn't asked her to process you, they'd say like Cvitan is afraid of Pernar. And I'm thinking, are you going to be brave on me? Let's process Hansel Todorovic and show him you're brave. Here's if you're so much a man who has balls and who has that manhood in him, etc. However, Mr. Cwitan has no courage and does not have what a man should have to deal with crime. Because if he had our country and our people, they wouldn't be victims of this kind of systematic robbery and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29702	Representative Gordan Maras has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29703	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, you mentioned your case in your debate, and then I had doubts if you remember I was restrained. But if everyone had been restrained, you wouldn't have got your immunity off. So already around your case, I noticed what my colleague Stazic said, and that's what's the rush. So, you're because of political activation, but you said that in some countries, graphites are valued as art. I believe that wasn't the case with you, because two letters, however you write them or draw them, are not. But what's the rush? So that's how you were able to carry out your mandate, and after that mandate, you could also respond. He could have written you a misdemeanor, a punishment or something. I don't believe there's a prison sentence here, although it's crazy that we have such a severe penalty for graphics in the Penal Code. And I'm sure in the future the Parliament will no longer react in this way, although I disagree with Mr. Culei's situation is a little different. There is also political activity in the game, but much more dangerous towards human freedoms, the rights of national minorities. So, it's political activation you can tell from what you said about the fact that there's no breaking boards when HDZ's in power. The plates only break when the SDP is in power. But what is being attacked there is much more valuable and these are the values of human freedoms, or the protection of national minorities. So I wouldn't agree with that if it were Same thing as painting Mr. Pernar. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29704	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29705	Well, Mr. Maras, there's this whole absurd thing about serious crime that's a lot harder and more serious than in the case of Calmeta, like in the case of Cobankovic. And let's say that if Cobankovic got that charity job for what he was being burdened with, then let's say, and in my case, he didn't ask the DORH for me charity work. Maybe I'm not working with the DORH? Maybe I'm not one of those penitent ones that favors their crime personally in a way that accuses others etc. Unfortunately, the DORH does not seem to be an institution whose primary crime-breaking service is the highest level, but unfortunately one institution whose indictments fall even in courts. You had a case to paint the tunnel. The court dropped the charges. He just told the D.R.R.H. this indictment, this we can't do, this isn't even for trial. And in cases where even based on these charges, the question is again, what is the quality of theirs. And when a verdict is reached, the higher courts bring those charges down, or they break the verdicts, and they say it's all sloppy, etc. And I think this is a classic example of a mounted political process. Thank you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29706	Representative Arsen Bauk has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29707	Comrade Pernar, I have already told the Mandate-Immunity Commission that if we were now in a position to vote on your immunity to vote against the removal of immunity and the removal of immunity to Mr Culei. But you started your presentation with one scripture from the Bible, so I will answer another scripture from the Bible. "Until I see on his hands the signs of nails, and put my finger in a place of nails, and put my hands in his side I will not believe." This is the Gospel of John, and then three below says, "Blessed are those who did not see and believed." What shall I say after this? Clearly, therefore, the method of our own skin is one good method to change practice. We are to remind you, remove immunity and vote for custody unanimously with your abstention against good and without great debate. We discussed one thing, two HDZ representatives, something we exchanged the replica, but for the incendiary of the topic that was at the moment it was almost as if there was no debate because the whole day on TV was Big Brother around Sauchi's walking down the Mesnička and away. Now the situation has changed a little bit, not because of it, so not because of what Big Brother was, but because a few days after or a few weeks after we learned the facts that shed an important different light on the work of the state's attorney's office in this case. And that is why we have reduced confidence in their demands, and this is the result of this debate and our vote, as well as the review of previous decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29708	Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29709	My colleague Pernar now that you mentioned Mr. Cobankovic, you put a bug in my ear, ah very blasphemy, Cobankovic received a work for the common good as a penitent. He participated in the execution of the crime, confessed to the execution of that crime, a huge sum, but then agreed with the DORH to take all the blame on Sanader and to pull himself out. I wouldn't have thought of that, but now I'm afraid that's possible in the case of Sach and the secretary. And I don't... this lady or Mrs. Zeljko's secretary, allegedly close to HDZ, I don't know if she's close or not as a penitent to drown Sach, not to establish the truth and not to punish the guilty, but to repeat the case of Cobankovic and Sanader. If that's how it is, if it's going in that direction, and then it's even worse than what Maras was saying, then it's a composite, then it's a perfidual game that we especially mustn't allow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29710	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29711	Thank you. I remember when former Prime Minister Milanovic said about the case, this is about the drug modus operandia, so the man literally goes to the end until he gets caught. And why am I saying that? Because happiness in the accident was that the secretary continued to steal after Sauch's departure because the secretary at Saucha said she only forged his signatures and that that's where we left off today we'd have this secretary as a crown witness, and Mr. Sauch as the worst bogeyman and the greatest thief. It's unfortunate that the secretary kept stealing, if she hadn't stopped with Saucho, because the question is, how would this whole farce end in the end? Mr. Saucha can thank her for that. She can thank her for not stopping. And unfortunately, the DORH realizes that it is the same modus operandia and that the time period is manifested indicates in which this modus operandi occurred on one person the DORH performs that person as a crown witness, and the man she testified against is drawn as the main culprit. And apparently, she was switching blame on him to save herself, not because she wanted to cooperate with the DORH so she could say that, that I was stealing because she said that I and I were stealing, so we were stealing together, no. She said she was the only one who was stealing, and I didn't steal anything. It was later seen that the story was completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29712	Time. Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, MP Orsat Milenic reported. Here's my apology. It's not written down, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29713	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for giving me your word because I answered the line, but obviously you didn't see me. My colleague Pernar wasn't the SDP who washed my hands the other day. I was asked then to remove my immunity as soon as possible, I was praying and I prayed to a colleague named Bauk to talk to the other club presidents to allow me. You know why I asked that? Because I wanted to end up in Remetic as soon as possible that night because I knew it was just inevitable. And I wanted to save myself at that moment, so I'll admit, I wanted to save myself 48 hours on the Oranics, I wanted to get my hands on those cells. At that moment, that cell was a dream to me. That day for three hours, I was taking my defenses out on UskoK, because I wanted to cooperate because I believed that if I said what was true, they would realize that I wasn't guilty, that they would go on looking for the culprit. But not only has it not been realized, but every effort I've made and every effort I've made later has made it worse for me. Every time I talk, I work in favor of my damage. And now I'm going to have to start keeping my mouth shut and act as sorry as any other defendant. And unfortunately my life will be ruined, my life has been ruined and I have a long-standing battle waiting for me through the courts. That's right. Why? 'Cause those people who do it who point fingers and you're automatically guilty, they don't answer to anyone. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] And that's why this system needs to be changed, it needs to be introduced. Some kind of control. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29714	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29715	I'd like to say, in your case, Mr. Culey, let Sacha prove he's innocent. However, when it comes to Calmeta, then his lady who ran his finances says, there is with us a colleague in the Zadar Parliament, she says, until the court finds him guilty, he is not guilty and that these institutions must prove that he is guilty. So it seems to me that when it comes to HDZ, then everyone is innocent until proven guilty, then they are, then they defend themselves all. But when it comes to you, then all of a sudden they all say, let him, if he's not guilty, let him prove it. So he's not in criminal proceedings on the defendant to prove he's not guilty, he's at the prosecution, or the D.O.R.H. to prove guilty. And that fundamental principle that everyone is innocent until proven guilty was also completely ousted during your procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29716	Representative Orsat Milenic has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29717	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is certainly a pain in the ass, at least for me, I believe for most of you when we need to talk about a fellow sitting there. First of all, I'm convinced that there's not all the politicization here and all that's been said and I'm sure it's not, especially not from us who are in politics, because we're all aware that once we're in power, we're going to be again, so it's turning round and I'm sure no one would ever get into this kind of thing. These days if they existed in Croatia, I am convinced that they are far behind us and that there is no such thing here. And that any insinuation that goes to a fellow sitting there just doesn't stand. I say, before, at the end of the line, we're all too smart together to deal with it. But I have a problem here, and I'm not going to vote to take off my immunity because I kind of feel cheated. So the first time the request came, I not only voted for it, but I also spoke with a very hearty voice and discussed with my colleagues at the club that I should support it because I believed in the principle that when something comes from an authorised prosecutor that we as a Parliament should stand behind it and that we should not engage in the debate and in any way discuss any guilt. And that's something I've been holding on to. I've stuck to the previous cases, and I thought it was a good practice for the Parliament. However, what is happening in this case and, of course, maybe because my colleague Saucha is closer to me, so I got into it more, as one of you would have come in maybe if it was someone else, you're actually questioning what's really going on. And I don't have an answer for that right now. We now if we say yes, if we say yes, we'll actually confirm the thesis that's completely illogical to me and impossible for Saucha to keep the first 100 and something warrant for himself, the money from it and that those, I don't know, 8 or something shared with the secretary. It's in those documents that I can't believe, it's life-long illogical, I'm not going to raise my hand for it, because it's life-long illogical. And I can't pick up after the first one where we're shown the thing in one way and then you see that the art was done in a hurry, that there's now another art that says the other. You see there is a wanted and received detention, please nice detention is a deprivement of freedom due to influence on witnesses. And then suddenly there's no danger of anyone else affecting the witnesses. Because there hasn't been any other arrest warrants in months. So in this case someone who isn't at all, who's ex, who can't even access that building across the street could affect witnesses and we've raised our hand to arrest him, we and then the state's attorney tells me no one else can influence witnesses anymore. That doesn't make sense. I'm just talking about some kind of common sense that needs to exist. We found out later that the police hadn't been involved since the beginning. You know what that means? No search was made, no money was investigated, no polygraph was made. Polygraph is not evidence, but it's an elimination tool in research. Nothing was done but we agents were put in a position to be served to raise our hand because it is our practice. And so I'm never going to say that something bad was done, I'm just saying that now looking at that first request, I wouldn't raise my hand to him. And that's why I can't get up for this one. And that's why I think we should discuss this practice in the future. Nothing will happen if the prosecution is conducted later, following the end of the parliamentary term. It won't get old. But we won't be in a position to feel uncomfortable. I feel uncomfortable here because of that first request. Like I'd feel uncomfortable if anyone else was in the same situation. Because I feel like the job wasn't done at that point in a way that had the right to seek custody. And I have the biggest problem with that detention, with the deprivement of freedom. Not so much with an investigative request, although this is just about an investigative request. But when we were led to raise our hand for detention because he would influence witnesses, that's completely illogical. And after that, it's undeniable that someone still did the same thing in the government. And after that from the famous press, as long as it's been a month and something, we don't have any other arrest warrants until today. So there was no one to influence the witnesses and he was supposed to be escorted to Remetinec very quickly because of the influence on the witnesses. It doesn't make sense. And those indifferences in acting speak, at least to me, but of course each of us will decide for himself. And when the time comes to vote that we should sit down, that we should sit between clubs and talk really about future practice as we set ourselves up according to these requirements and what we're going to look for. Because if we're gonna raise our hands every time, then we can wipe out the immunity. He doesn't really make any sense anymore. So every time the request comes, you raise your hand, it's automation. Then let's write when a request for immunity is granted. We can say that, but then let's change. And if we're not going to argue, if we're going to be in a position to believe everything, it's not good for me. And this item with exactly what's going on, I'm telling you, when we raise this hand, we said that 117 orders were stolen, such is the starting point, and that 8 divided by someone else. That's impossible. Whoever's telling me is making a fool out of me. I can't raise my hand for that. So, I'm not going to go into any of these previous cases that have been going on why you're looking for detention or not. Let's just say that this time is behind us, that these were some mistakes, because you really can't explain to yourself why in a case where it's a million-dollar damage, where the whole chain of people is never wanted in custody, and here you're looking for it after three days. But let's just say, it was a bad practice, maybe this is better. But then she has to be consistent, too. She has to be based on something. And that's what my basic problem is with this. So no one but themselves can know whether he's guilty or innocent and I have no ambition at all. I don't know if a colleague did anything or didn't. He's the only one who knows that. And in the end, they'll determine the court. But we're here to say whether we agree with this kind of treatment or this practice or not. And we need to promote it in the context of what that means for all other actions. Is this the largest item in Croatia that had to be solved within 72 hours? It's not. But he got rid of it. Namely, he got rid of us taking off here and there was a detention. It may be the first time that property like this has been done. Okay. After that, we have this right now and it tells you from this it's being pushed out first. And we will have two existential requests for an investigation that are contradictory to each other. And it's not good and I can't raise my hand for it. I'm not gonna invite anyone to vote one way or another, that's everybody's thing. I am in favour of talking at Parliament level in principle about future practice. And I think that's where Parliament needs us, and we're here as a club, and we're out of what's happened so far. We think we have reasons. We're ready to talk about it with our colleagues not publicly, we can talk in public here right now. But in the future, let's see how we stand. Let's work out some rules. Because the rules aren't here this is now an example. But they must apply to each and every one of them. We had one practice. We think we should talk about her to be different. This can't be turned on anyway. It may be in this case, but in the future it will be in excess, because there will always be danger of who most of them are not playing theirs and letting out those minorities, etc. That's not good, then. That's why, that's my appeal. Everyone in their conscience, but let's talk about this because it's an extremely, extremely important question. We can't go into who's guilty of who's not, it's not our job and I really don't know. But we can and we have the right to from this place to demand that work is done well. And what we see and what we decide that we can calm hands, calm souls raised hands for it. Here's what I'm saying. That's my attitude. He's got his own, and that's how we're gonna vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29718	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29719	Your Honor. Mr Orsate Milenic, you were the Minister of Justice, as I recall. You know, now that I've figured out just as healthy a peasant as you would say, because we're born in the country with some little prom, someone bigger, someone smaller. But since you can't influence the DORH now, or the judiciary, you're trying to influence Mr. Sauch at all, not to the DORH, not to the judiciary. It used to be that way. I know that people can be taken, detained, imprisoned and sentenced. Hello, DORH. Lock down, hello, court order. So I asked you 20 days ago here in the assembly why you moved from the Vinkovci court to Vukovar? You're the one who told me about the possible match of judges, the godmothering, the recognition, the rest. Isn't that what you said? And I told you then, and you brought me to court in Vukovar, that I should be judged by those who did not judge those who were to be judged during the province. I hope you understand. I've filed 57 people. I've filed a war crime charge against 57 people. We almost caught 57 of them. One's done. He was given three and a half years for war crimes, for the most serious form of war crimes he received three and a half years in prison, Milan Marinkovic from Borov Sela, because of the difficult financial situation and the sick old mother. Two of these were wiped out who were still with him. Of them 57 means only one and he got 3 years after 25 years. So what do we have to wait for Mr. Saucha to grow old, not to be beautiful, blue and tall, or witnesses to die as they have died in all cases when it comes to Croatian defenders and victims of the Croatian people? [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29720	Thank you. Replication response, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29721	Mr. President. So a fellow of several things. First, in this case, the prosecution will take place because we did remove immunity and that investigation and if it comes to the charge, it goes away. So by voting against it, no one will prevent any prosecution. So that's clear. Well, we voted a while ago for him to go. So he's going. And that's where it's going to be determined, it's really going to be determined what it was. And when it's established then I think we can talk further. Is this justifiable now or not? So when it's determined. That's something I think we should go for because it comes from the logic of this act. After all, DORH put us in that logic. They went first with that in 72 hours, we voted. Now they're looking for this. Let's go! You went fast with that, you finish quickly. So when you're done, we'll move on, no problem. I never, I don't know, I guess you know about those items, but I've never done any influence on the judiciary in my day and nobody's gonna be able to tell you because it's just not true, I'm telling you in my day. If there was anything sooner or later, I'm not getting into it. I'm convinced that all my predecessors and heirs are in that place where I've worked honestly and those things haven't worked, I'm sure. But I can vouch for myself, so it wasn't. And that's the way it is. In our time, they started reading a series of proceedings against our prominent members if you speak at the time of that government. Well, if this was exactly what you're talking about, then I guess it'd be a phone call, if it wasn't. But people are tried and convicted. Why? Because the basic... message, to everyone alike, is what this country must have. Everyone's equal to the law, everyone, and that's a standard that you and I and everyone here have to stand up for, and on this case, we have to stand up for it. And think of who it was going against in ours. Time and then you'll understand that there was no influence. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29722	Representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29723	Comrade Milenić, you have spoken a sentence that I have heard here in the Assembly on the board of directors at least 100, 200 times lately. You said it's always been automatism, that's the practice. If it was a private lawsuit it wasn't... if the DORH was being taken off. I am as a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission but here in the Assembly, in certain cases, I voted in the way I personally thought it was fair. In the sense of applying certain weights of a portion, I felt that it was something that could be judged by the end of the term and that there was no weight to strip him for it. For a private lawsuit with my colleague Pernar, I voted to get rid of him because I think he personally insulted a person by his name and name, publicly stood before it, and this one has no opportunity. And now I don't want to talk about Tomislav Sauchi at all, and I want to talk about what's been going on here the whole time. Right in that sentence you said I'd heard a few hundred times. Do we want to change that practice or do we not want to change that? But then you need to make it clear that you're on that side that you're going with this particular proposal, whether or not we trust the DORH. Because according to everything we heard tonight, it turns out that the DORH is doing something that doesn't deserve trust. I personally believe that Tomislav will prove his innocence and that he will succeed in that part and what always angered me when it was tried in advance, and that is the practice, unfortunately, that is the practice. And here we heard here in the introduction to today's assembly after a break that a man is named for a loan. Already in advance in the media will be someone called, convicted later I don't know what... I think we're the big culprits in this whole trial in advance and we forget that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29724	Replicate reply, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29725	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with you. In my debate, I didn't propose, and I didn't speak for the club, so I just made my point like you said you had before, and of course everyone here will decide when we vote. I was just complaining that it was awkward for me because it was our member, so it's breaking up on it. It would be easier to talk about if it were yours, you know as it is easier for you in some things right now, but I think we should talk about it internally and let's say so at Parliament level and about the meaning of immunity and how we're going to set ourselves up because I would feel more comfortable if we had some kind of unique practice. I've had to say myself sometimes and hard and I haven't done what you've been doing, I've been going that way, that's the practice we're going to do because I've taken that principle, now I'm thinking that we need to reconsider, if most of it will be in another case, in this, we need to talk about it. But it's again something that this assembly should really serve for. I think if we're gonna be handlifters, we're gonna question things. When you talk about trust, is this about principle trust? Look at them working there I think we have some 600 prosecutors or state attorneys as well as everywhere, there are great people and I believe that most of them, maybe there are some who make mistakes sometimes, so mistakes are possible everywhere. Do you need to sanction them? We don't need to, but we need to talk about it. I think it's Parliament's duty to speak, so someone's gonna hear maybe something won't do if it was bad before, maybe it'll fix it, maybe it won't, you understand. It is also so we will have this debate and we will discuss it and trust, mistrust, etc. But here I had a need to say and point out certain illogicalities which, as a council representative, prevent me from raising my hand, as you had before that one. Let's say you voted differently. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29726	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29727	Thank you very much. Mr Milenić, in your debate, you have basically asked me to not raise a bianko hand, especially after this much illogicality that you have counted in the debate and that one of them had a certain treatment, that others did not, while I mean the express arrest because of the influence on witnesses, and after that the same person who is, say, an incredible paradox, that person was working, now the suspect was also, working in front of Croatian Prime Minister Plenkovic's office, then de facto introduced Cvitana to that press conference that they held together to enter his office. She couldn't influence witnesses, and she worked there all the time and I'm still saying as prime minister's secretary she had some authority. On the other hand, Sach, who had no work, who no longer had any formal authority over the people who were in the office and who were potential witnesses, could have influenced the witnesses by law. So as soon as these things are put together, it's normal for you to question your decisions and it's normal for us to all question our decisions. Because if automaticism were a removal of immunity, then it would say in the law that the automatism of the Parliament removes the immunity of the agent for these and those cases. However, this is where the Assembly, or representatives, should make a decision. And when all of this is put into context and compared, it's normal for you to reconsider your decision and your decisions and that's how you'll do it in the future. And I believe so, but so do all the other MPs in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29728	Replicate reply, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29729	Thank you very much. So I'm really and what I said first, I'm convinced that there's no politicization here, especially from political parties, so no politicians. And that's something I think we should keep on the sidelines. And if this was about me investigating investigations, I probably wouldn't even be discussing today because that's something that when you're looking logically, OK, so let's investigate and see what's real. But we had an investigation there and a request for a prison investigation. It's a deprivement of freedom. Saucha was there for seven days, it could have been longer. If there were 50 witnesses, it would've been six months. After that, we get this second request that's contradictory to the first one. So what are we gonna believe? The first one is based on the secretary's statement, if we're talking about it and the second one turns out she's a co-criminal. Well, it's a badly done job because we have representatives who have made a request that has not been completed. That's my problem. I want to know when I decide what her role is, which is his. I know that's why there's an investigation to determine. But if you're suggesting that I give you authority to investigate then at least tell me what it's about and don't send me a message, he did it all by himself and this is a great witness. I want him in custody so he doesn't affect the witnesses and I let her keep doing it until the end. I mean, that was illogical from the beginning. Okay, I raised my hand then, I did, because I believed OK, there's got to be something else. Then I realized that there was something else, the opposite of finding a witch, a polygraph, a secretary who became something else and so on. And that's what's wrong. Let's let it go, let it finish the first procedure, let it go, and then we'll go later, there's no statute of limitations. I mean, she's got it, but she's so long, she's sure she won't get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29730	Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29731	When it comes to the state's attorney's office and the state's attorney, let me have one parallel. There is a Law on State officials, a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, which says that a state official must not only find himself in a conflict of interest but must do everything to avoid a potential conflict of interest, in a potential conflict of interest. Let's put, let's promote this thing, this thing from this point of view. The state's attorney acts on the line of public interest and the public's interest is to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts. But he also has a private interest in being re-elected, it's a human interest, it's a normal interest so that it acts on one line of liking to those who might or should rename it. Let's get him out of this situation as the law requires officials not to enter into a potential conflict of interest. Let's make a law that neither the state's attorney can enter a potential conflict of interest but act solely in the public interest, that no one can ever suspect that this man acts as if he wishes to please the ruling, we'll do him a favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29732	Representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29733	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Milenić, I think we should not only change the practice here in the Croatian Parliament, among us parliamentary representatives and regarding our immunity, I think we should change the practice in the entire system of the operation of the DORH, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the powers of the DORH in the investigation. Because you know, once you're pointed at the DORH finger, so either the Attorney General or the Director-General of BUSKOK, so when you hear from your lawyer, when you consult, when you hear a score like this when he tells you, look, you now need to get back together with the process ahead of you, and it'll take years, believe me, it's worse than the prison sentence itself. So, the powers the DORH has in the investigation, i.e. In the investigations before the trial, the defendant has absolutely no right. So the presummation of innocence, the principle of equality of arms, no longer exists in Croatia. And I'm going to tell you one more thing, I think we need to put some kind of surveillance on the DORH's work and we need to stop hiding, i.e. We need to stop hiding from the flossula about some top-level profession. We are here once a year to discuss the report on the operation of the DORH, which is not quite enough. It is necessary to introduce some kind of civil surveillance, continuous and systematic over the work of the DORH that would constantly question whether their accusations were, i.e. not the charges but their investigations justified or not because otherwise people spend 500 days in Remitinc and no one else's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29734	Replicate reply, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29735	Thank you very much, sir...../The speaker went off and then turned on./... and the controller is the court and it's the only way. So the court has to play an even stronger role, and that is exactly what they can advocate in labour control. Many countries have a solution where the state's attorney's office is part of the executive government. They have and they are highly developed and democratic countries. Why? Because you have a court of impartials who will eventually make a decision and that may also be the way, that should be discussed. But we need to be in a position to remove the estradation of this one. What's happening in your case and many others is estradisation, is a situation where you actually are being tried on the street instead of in court. That's bad. One of the reasons I'm going to be against is that after the request for immunity came, the details began to leak that you didn't even have. So they could only come from one side and it's not good. This item must not be conducted in public. And that defendant doesn't have the same weapon and that's not good. But I say there is a court in democratic countries that will punish both sides if they do. A court that will ensure that your human rights are not violated. And that's something we have to strive for. And I'm sure we'll all work together. I'm not gonna talk about bad work here, and that's what I said. It's just that when you do things quickly, you can make a mistake. So what? What's the problem? The problem is, we've been seduced here in some way, and that's my problem. I still don't know if you did it or not, and it's really none of my business. But I want you to be tried in one correct procedure and if you're guilty of going to jail or wherever, if you're not like any other. If I'm involved in some way, and I'm involved when I raise my hand. Thank you very much. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29736	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29737	Thank you. I'd like to say there are two suspects in this case. One's a secretary, one's a Sauch. By law let's say reality at a time when Sauch was not in the government he couldn't do it. So it's undeniable that after he left, the secretary is 100% the one who did it. So there are no other suspects. Now, since Saucha had previously been in the government then it was suggested that this illogicality observed by Orsat Milenić, that he had 117 warrants himself was stealing for himself, then a couple together with her, and then she herself continued to do so without him. However, the logic of the matter states that this second indictment was amended precisely because it was found that the secretary was indisputably stealing that money, and therefore suddenly puts it as an accomplice, and in the previous request not because it was not known then that the secretary was actually the indisputable culprit. And it's much more logical to say that the secretary was always stealing money than only Sauch in 117 cases, and then in them a dozen Sauchs and she together, and then just her. This DORH proposal is very, very strange. And it's strange what was said in the art of signing that all signatures on 117 warrants are identical to each other. It means that although there are variations in human signature, there is always a little different from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29738	Replication response, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29739	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd only appeal here if we didn't go and try not to be judges. So, not taking anyone into defense, etc. I don't think it's a good idea to call a secretary or anyone, because we don't know who did what, like we don't even know what Tomislav Sauch did. So I think here in the debate and I hope that I've stuck to it we should limit to the quality of the material we've got because that's what it is. We decide only one formal and we have no authority and we must not go into the depths of it. But if this form results in contradiction, if we are not satisfied with it, then we should say and talk and therefore take a stand whether or not we are in favour. But it's not good that we use here to enter, we use the opportunity to enter the metrics, to discuss this or that. In the end it's a matter for the court, it's a matter for the parties that will be brought before the court. I've only been here to express what I've done as a council representative is disturbing in relation to what I first raised my hand. And I said for the first time I raised my hand because I believed blindly in it. Later when I have two things and I compare them, which is my job to compare them, then I have a problem and that's why I won't raise my hand another time. But here everyone will decide for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29740	Representative Aresen Bauk. He's giving up, thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, MP Arsen Bauk will speak for the closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29741	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. To express myself in the language of the experts, the Club of Representatives of the SDP is very likely, almost certainly not to vote for this report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, i.e. it will be against the removal of immunity, the additional removal of immunity to Agent Tomislav Sauchi, as in any other case, regardless of the party membership of the representatives, would be similar because we announced this immediately after we learned of the new circumstances that followed after the Croatian Parliament gave permission to deprive MPs Tomislav Sauche of his freedom in this case. The result is our reduced trust in the work of the State's Attorney's Office in this case after the knowledge we had. We believe that the practice that has been so far needs to be reconsidered and changed. In fact, this practice is no longer available, because if it remains with the representative's statement as it was on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, then the ruling majority will remove immunity from the opposition's representative in one process that we are no longer convinced is not affected by what Milenic's colleague said about estradisation. Otherwise, for a long time in two meetings of the Croatian Assembly in the agenda somewhere in the two-digit regular number of points of acidification report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2015. In one comment, counterpart Bacic said we would discuss him when we are not hot from the Dnevnica affair. I don't know what that temperature is now, but it's certainly bigger than just discussing the journal's affair. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think this is much of a discussion either. I have sent a letter to the President of the Parliament on behalf of the SDP club asking that an immunity meeting be organised and that we agree on a new practice. We would like the meeting to be held before voting on this point, if possible, to review the practice not only of removing immunity at the request of the DORH but also of private lawsuits and civil litigation against MPs for spoken words in the Croatian Parliament. Also, the criteria by which we will be guided in the decision-making process and voting will be one, whether it is necessary, is socially necessary to say that the case against the MPs is being conducted as long as his term of office is or will be without any damage to society and the state can do so even after the term of office. And secondly, whether the MP or MPs will have a fairer process when they are MPs or when they withdraw from politics and they stop. In this case, the two questions that we have asked ourselves are no, the answer is such that the vote is voted when the vote is against. I also want to say that this is not an administrative procedure. The Croatian Parliament, whatever decision it makes to vote in this case, will make a decision that is constitutional, legally it can be good or bad, but it is constitutional or legal. The Constitution has given us the right to vote on this and in this case we have decided to use this right or to say it in a slightly different way, in this case, the right to decide we did not give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29742	Representative Blaženko Boban answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29743	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Bauk. Yes, I have only one sentence to refer to the debate of my colleague Orsat Milenić, and I absolutely agree and support this debate, unfortunately one part of the MPs here today has been put at the very least as jurors, judges of jurors and one part, and you are really very correct on this matter and as regards fellow Sauche and as far as the secretary and anyone else is concerned. But colleagues in Bauku would be replicating any parliamentary immunity. Personally, to be honest, I don't think any parliamentary immunity should exist, I think. Why should the parliamentary representative of the point earlier have had one where we have the parliamentary representatives here who work for good or have not, but in the previous pair of calls we have abolished the empty powers, the laws, we worry about how many diaries they will have, what this, what it is, and here we protect them unlike other citizens for immunity and for some works. But I agree, too, if it is, but it is an inappropriate practice so far, that I agree in each other's segments, which is when a private lawsuit against a parliamentary representative goes against a private representative if a private representative has damaged a private person for millions of dollars, we generally did not remove immunity because it is not fair. Maybe this private company there was shut down because of some parliamentary representative we were protecting here with immunity, maybe his company and his whole family there was destroyed, and we were protecting him here with immunity. This should also be discussed and such a model of future practice should be really discussed because it is not fair that we also treat colleagues who have done real damage to someone in private suits. The parliamentary representative can be his party's parliamentary representative for 15, 20 years, and the company can indeed come and the man who sued him in big trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29744	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29745	As for what you said, I fully agree with you, even about what you said about immunity, that's exactly why we didn't have any de facto immunity from the state. So in the last 15, 17 years, no one has remained immune at the request of the State's Attorney's Office. Exceptions were there about a month before the 2011 elections, MP Chehok was three weeks ahead of the elections or even perhaps the last week of his term did not meet and his immunity was not lifted, so he lost his term after the election, so after a few weeks. So that's one thing. And my colleague Stazic spoke in his debate about how immunity arose, so that parliament was protected from the king, I did quote it well, Mr. Stazic. As for immunity to say anything else, he's not protecting you from any persecution, he's just putting off that possible persecution until your term is over. So if someone is sued for a private lawsuit, he will, when his term of office is suspended, have no statute of limitations, so he will respond eventually. That goes for this case, though, this is to be honest with you, this request doesn't matter that much to this case. So we've got immunosupply for 117 travel orders and we're looking for another 8 and another contract. I mean without being accused of being a judge, it's very logical if he's guilty of 117 he's also guilty of 8, if he's not guilty of 117 not even for 8. So voting against this immunity is just a message that we think about the work of the State's Attorney's Office in this case, not about protecting someone for this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29746	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29747	Your Honor. Comrade Bauk, it looks like we all have the same attitude about the operation of the DORH. So we all doubt the work of the DORH and I have reasonable doubts that I doubt their work. Like this, I wouldn't want to be a colleague of Saucci's in the skin. So a young man who's in politics who walks this city that has to look at the views of the accusing whether he's turning, whether he's not turning, I'm not getting into it. I'd be very embarrassed. I live in space, someone calls it rural, some call it wartime, some call it Slavonia, someone calls my part of the country. I can walk up there no matter how much anyone looks at me. Why? Because I'm proud of everything I've done. And even those who accuse me, and then I'm proud. Why am I saying all this? We here need to defend the integrity of parliamentary deputies. That's what we've been discussing all day. In what way? So things like this don't happen to us. And if this kind of thing happens to us, this kind of suspicion, this sort of thing. This should be dealt with urgently if he did not commit or prove it if he is, as urgent as possible and disposed of by this Damocle sword that hangs over his head because the great burden is upon him. That's what I'm talking about. And as for the DORH, since we've all established that he's not consistent, he's not transparent or what he's usually done in his work, so I guess it would be our turn to come here more and report to us for the year 2015 when he was, was doing what wasn't supposed to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29748	The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29749	Well, it's interesting to ask if it's better if we're all dissatisfied or if we're satisfied with each other and not satisfied with each other. It's always in such institutions a double sword. But whoever accepts that duty must be aware that in general everyone will be dissatisfied. We're particularly unhappy with this case. We don't have the possibility of having an impact on work for what's been removed from immunity. So this procedure can go on as normal as possible. We also gave support in a request that was a little too harsh in our opinion but we remained shocked when we saw him that we didn't get along. Malten, here's a colleague of Sach said he asked us to do it as soon as possible. And that's where we put our trust. So the witness interview was completed, a colleague of Sach came out of Remetinco, came here for the first time in the Parliament, of course all the cameras took pictures of him, somehow it all seemed expensive, I don't know what. And then this knowledge came that it was later and this joint press. And of course we have to look for further explanations here. As for work for 2015, we do not decide when it will come to the agenda. I chaired the Justice Committee twice when I put it on the agenda. You once voted against it on the agenda of that last meeting. Now there was no vote against, and now we have kept that report in mind, and that is how the committee proposed it. What will be the debate, and when it is not up to us, I can agree with you there. And as for what you said should be done as soon as possible and that Damocle's sword should be taken down, so, yes, we have a procedure that is under way for which immunity has been removed and it should be completed. And this is, with these eight, this is one face lift, so to speak Croatian, and we don't want to be the ones that's going to fix the make-up for a little bit. Uh-huh, that's minus, thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29750	Representative Branko Bačić reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29751	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bauk, you quoted me correctly, I said that it might not be the best time to discuss it, so I said in hot conditions when the state's attorney is investigating an affair that is happening at the top of the executive board, i.e. in the Prime Minister's Office, so that the parliamentary deputies would not be charged with under the impression of discussing the work of a state's attorney for 2015. Col. Milenic, I agree with him, that it is not good to reduce the powers of the state's attorney's office, that it is better to strengthen the independence of the Croatian judiciary so that the court does not hesitate to refuse the indictment if it is not justified because we have witnessed that, by a line of minor resistance, the court is missing the indictment and then the evidence procedure determines whether there is really guilt or not. Therefore, I think that we should strengthen and encourage the Croatian judiciary, the courts to also act on charges coming from the state's attorney's office in such a way as to act without being on the other hand, not to decide on the charges coming from the DORH. I am therefore not in favour of reducing their powers but I am in favour of strengthening the independence of the judiciary and, in that sense, we, as part of the legislative authority, contribute to the position of the Croatian judiciary. And the third thing that I wanted to tell you, I think it was during the morning, and that's what you mentioned to me, that it would be good if, in cases where the removal of immunity is requested, the MPs until the term of office allows and removes immunity, when the term of office ends, then goes to it. I mean, I wouldn't agree with that, namely, there's a saying that slow justice is actually an injustice. Therefore, I think that, indeed, when it is time to process, complete and remove immunity if necessary and necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29752	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29753	There are several anthological statements by politicians about the work of state lawyers, I will try and quote them. One thing is, he'd have done it before, he'd have ended up in a pot. That's more of our side. That was a joke. The second is, if he was smarter, he'd send this after the election. I've tried to, so what I've quoted correctly, I've taken as one of the arguments in fact, and I'll use that when and if ever, I don't prejudge, by the law of probability, it's possible that sometimes for one of the representatives from the ruling majority, here I won't say from any party and then we'll have to test our practice. And imagine now the situation that we're against again and you're taking yours off for it. It's possible, but don't change it then, so we can talk in practice now. So I agree partly with you. I'd like to ask ourselves two key questions when we decide and try to get an answer to them. First of all, is it necessary to process it immediately? This graph drawing, and even what Mr. Culey had. And I don't think so, so there will be justice, and if it is later there will be no injustice. The second question is whether the process is escarved or whether it is so politically contaminated that it might be more just for the person it is dealing with when it comes out of politics. So we've actually come into a situation that we've turned the story around, so that public figures have even less chance of a fair trial than these unpublished ones. So maybe. I'm not saying that. I have to further analyze that, but it's one of the options we should discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29754	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29755	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk, I wouldn't go into a trial debate, I believe here that we all have or at least so should all public and non-public persons have the same status in court. But I'm sure in this pre-action of a public person, and as we've seen from the case of the last Mr. Sauche, they have a different status. They're being followed, reported, conclusions are being made, special shows are being made, everyone has their own attitude. And I'm sure, I'm sure that under such conditions neither the attorney's office does as it does in other cases. Under greater pressure, I said it was already harder to admit a mistake, it's harder to say what's obvious to everyone, we haven't done what has to be done because of what is then meant to be a further debate and to follow up on certain political conjectures and on those who have made mistakes. So I absolutely agree with you that certain crimes have no reason to, of course, not be difficult or that a person can't make them do what you said again. If it's graphed in three years, it can be conducted and no one can do anything. And that is why I am once again glad that you have submitted a request to the presidents of clubs in the Croatian Parliament to analyse the practice, to draw some conclusions. Because here we don't raise our hands with automation, but because of some logic. And it's obvious that this logic is not good that we've been applying so far, because otherwise we wouldn't have had these problems and these questions would not be opened. We wouldn't be having this debate at all if the logic that's been left so far was her. which we think is correct. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29756	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29757	I find the construction interesting. I believe or at least that's how it should be, then you don't believe, about. That's me, that's how you started. So, as for the graphics of fellow Pernar, in the opening statement, he unfairly accused HDZ that Dalmatia was full of their graphite, I must. Dalmatia is full of Hajduk's graphite, which is exactly what's not bad at all, but good. And if he were to happen to be like he called for convicted of this charity, then he could draw, keep drawing those graphs down. That could be it. ... Of course, of course. [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah. As far as your thoughts are concerned that someone doesn't want to admit a mistake she's actually, then we should actually file a little harder on a person who doesn't want to admit a mistake, so she's ready for someone she believes isn't guilty of insisting on further persecution. So, it's a very difficult accusation that I can't make, which I don't want to say and which, if I'm a responsible politician, I can't say unless I'm willing to take the next step by asking for the resignation and replacement of that person and even the prosecution for abuse of office. That's it. So let's not, therefore, or let's talk about it in a way, so I choose words very carefully, not about mistrust in work, but about less confidence. Because it can always be the next question and what will you do when you say it? So when you drop an atomic bomb, don't be surprised about the radiation, and I'm trying not to throw myself unless I have this radiation protection suit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29758	I'm closing the argument after philosophical thoughts. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 p.m. with the point Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Thank you. Session interrupted at 18.50 hours. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29760	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 19th session held on 21 April 2017, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief Josip Krajačić to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mladen Madjer in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence against the personal freedom of the threat referred to in Article 139(1). In accordance with Article 14(1) of the Code of Penalty and the Penalty of Penalty against Honor and Reabilities referred to in Article 147(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Court of Justice of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 December 2013 on the protection of personal data relating to the processing of personal data by the European Parliament and the Council and the Council and the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’), and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’), the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’). Penalty law. Mr Mladen Madjer is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted without discussion. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament, shall be suspended during the term of the parliamentary term of office for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Mladen Madjer at the request of the attorney general Josip Krajačić, acting on the appeal brought on 18 July 2013 to the Municipal Court in Koprivnica for the criminal offence against the personal freedom of the threat referred to in Article 139(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 14(1) of the Code of Penalty and the Penalty of Penalty against Honor and Reabilities referred to in Article 147(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Court of Justice of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 December 2013 on the protection of personal data relating to the processing of personal data by the European Parliament and the Council and the Council and the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’), and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’), the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’). Penalty law. The argument is identical, it's a private lawsuit and we stayed in practice that, regardless of the debate we had the other day, we did not remove the immunity of the representative, Madero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29761	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Be my guest, Mr. Bauk. I'm guessing that agent Bauk is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29762	Thank you, Mr. President. The custom has been the rule so far, but not always that you can raise your hand and get in the name of the club, so if it's my fault that I didn't apply, please tolerate it. Thank you. So, my colleague, Tušek, has accurately stated the practice of removing immunity in private lawsuits, and given the scale of m, we will vote in favour of the Mandate-Immunity Commission report in this case. I will not explain in more detail why we believe that this type of immunity is still needed to remain to the greatest extent possible. However, on April 13th of this year as SDP president of the SDP, I have asked the President of the Parliament to call on the presidents of the representatives' clubs to try to agree on a new practice after we announced that due to obvious failures in the work of the State's Attorney's Office in another case, we believe that we need to reconsider the practice so far. After that conversation, we can again conclude that the arguments that we remain in such practice are strong, that the practice should not be changed but I think it is not good to deafen to the legitimate request of a relatively large club and continue with practice without even having a debate on what kind of practice we will have further. That meeting doesn't take much time. We can hold it today, we can hold it on Wednesday and we can vote on all the points that the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Assembly, as regards immunity next Friday. Of course, I took this opportunity so I wouldn't have to ask for a break later and explain my position and I'm trying to keep the subject from taking my word and then I'm talking about the practice that Mr. Tušek mentioned in his report. So, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I suggest that this report, therefore, on the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report on the private suit and on the next report we discussed on Wednesday, so at the request of the state's attorney, we do not hold today's vote, but rather do it next Friday and try to at least try to establish a new practice in removing immunity so that, as in the present case, all such decisions will be taken unanimously. This would not have sent any message to anyone who proposed any removal of the immunity of a private prosecutor, any state attorney's office would have already shown first that Parliament has responsibility for its constitutional obligations and the right of MPs to decide not to be a mailbox to any institution or state independent because Parliament in this country is the main authority and the constitution is a basic document, and if the Constitution gives immunity to someone then the Croatian Parliament is not a mailbox that should just pass it on. Especially if this is about an obvious mistake that someone doesn't want to admit. That's why Mr. President, it's the SDP's appeal that this point and the one we've already discussed after at least trying, I say at least try, I'm not saying that we'll succeed, but I think it's your responsibility to at least try to organise a meeting in which we would try to agree on a new practice. And next Friday, if we manage to vote all together in this practice and if we fail, it will be just as likely today. Here's so much on behalf of the SDP club. I ask that these two points after the debate on this point of removing immunity on a private suit to delay the vote until next Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29763	Is anyone else interested in involving in the debate? If it's not with this, I'm closing the argument. Representative Bauk, I understand all the reasons you have stated and I will be pleased to organise a meeting with everyone, and I hope that all representatives or club presidents will respond to the further treatment of the download, the potential removal of immunity to the MPs. That doesn't include this time. The MPs are not a mailbox, the MPs have their will and the ability to vote as they wish at the time of the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29764	Mr. President, may I request a vote on my proposal to postpone the vote until the club's agreement?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29765	How will you request a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29766	That's what I'm asking you if I can. Usually, when a united debate is sought, it is determined in some ways whether the MPs agree with it and then decide on a united debate. And this way we can determine if the MPs want it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29767	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29768	Thank you, Mr. President. Before the vote, we held talks and consultations with the representatives of the MOST club and with the president of the SDP club. We at the HDZ have no problem with discussing whether this is the way that has so far been addressed in the Croatian Parliament that when the DORH, or the court requires the removal of immunity that we generally approve of it and when removing immunity on a private charge that we do not accept it. And I agree with my colleague, Bauk, that we can discuss this at the Bureau session and we at the HDZ Club support it. The only thing that's removed from what my colleague Bauk said, which is what we believe we should do when there's no request for any parliamentary representative. So that this possible new practice that we would establish in the Croatian Parliament, which I personally do not advocate, but I do not want to reconsider such a decision. I believe that we should, as the Mandate-Immunity Commission has already decided to act both in this case as colleagues of Madero and in the case of a colleague of Sauche, so that the Assembly should declare this when there is no further request from the DORH or the court or no private action to discuss this at the Bureau's session. And I am to argue. But if we were to do it now at a time when the Parliament had to plead for the removal of immunity, I don't think it would be correct for these two colleagues or for all those who have been treated that way so far. Therefore, I support my colleague Bauk's position, but I think we should discuss today's decision and then when there's no request to discuss it so that we don't turn out to be doing it just for one MP. I don't think it would be right for him either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29769	Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29770	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, this request was made by our colleague Bauk, we asked for a joint discussion before the hearing was held on the Mandate-Immunity Commission. It is, and what I would remind you, and I would suggest the same thing, suggest that we make a statement today whether we will vote on it, so according to a certain practice in the Rules of Procedure this is, since the debate is open, we can accept this as a proposal for a conclusion. So I would like to ask you to give our representatives here in the Assembly a statement on our proposal to the joint and club of the HNS and HSU and the SDP club on the proposed conclusion that we have verbally stated to postpone the vote on the removal of immunity and colleagues of Madjero and fellow Sauchi until next week. And before that, it means that clubs are located in an extended presidency and that future practice is discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29771	Since the debate is closed, here I am, Agent Pernar, here you are, but I wish you'd joined the moment of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29772	Thank you. What I'd like to say is that this whole situation has basically come about because the DORH has decided to time certain actions, certain actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29773	Agent Pernar, this has nothing to do with what the SDP Representatives Club has proposed. You'll get a chance to get involved in the debate later. I'd like you to sit down. The mandate-immunity committee is in session, made a decision. Then a meeting was proposed. I would really ask for the reason that we will make a precedent in which absolutely every parliamentary representative will be able to stand up, suggest that something be voted past the agenda and past the vote. I'd really like to ask that we don't do this precedent this time. If we are going to do this, there is a possibility that through the amendments to the Rules of Procedure we should put it in place, because they are now under way, that this time we will not go in such a way, and surely through the session of the Bureau of Parliament we will have a debate on all further actions. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 106 for and 1 abstentioned and without votes against the decisions made, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Sauche of the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision which reads: Appropriation is granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Sauche, representatives of the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State Attorney's Office, Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, issue of the KUS: 48/17 of 10 April 2017 by State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by Act No KRDO: 192/2017 of 10 April 2017 on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed two crimes of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(1). In the case of a criminal offence and two offences, the counterfeiting of an official or business document referred to in Article 279(1) and (2) shall be prohibited. Penalty law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that the majority of votes are 66 for, 15 abstentions and 25 against decisions made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. This is what we're done with voting subjects. The following is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29775	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 19th session held on 21 April 2017, colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Branimir Glavas on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duties addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission found that it was based on Article 14. The law on election of representatives in the Croatian Assembly of Representatives, Branimir Glavas, began on 2 November 2016, and that the deputy deputy representative's duties began to act as a master of science, Josip Salapic. Without discussion, the committee decided to suspend the term of office of representative and to suspend the duties of deputy deputies on 11 May of the current year, suspending the term of office of representative Branimir Glavas and representative of the Master of Science Josip Salapic, on the same day, ceases to act as deputy MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29776	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 143 votes for, 1 abstentioned and no votes against decisions made, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29777	At the 20th session held on 4 May 2017, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of the representative Vlaha Orepić on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office of 2 May 2017, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 27 April 2017 the Government of the Republic of Croatia relieved him of the duties of the Minister of Interior, which ceased his duties which was incompatible with the parliamentary duties. The Commission has established that the stay of the parliamentary term of office of Vlahi Orepic is due to the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 14 October 2016, and that Davor Romic began acting as deputy MP in the Croatian Parliament on 19 October 2016. How Vlaho Orepić is in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament has filed a written request for the re-behaving of the office of President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit of the Commission's opinion that the conditions laid down by law have been met, and that Vlah Orepic's term of office ceases on the eighth day of the application. On the same day, the conduct of the parliamentary duties of Deputy Representative Davor Romic ceases. Following that unanimous commission, a decision on the suspension of the term of office of the representative and the termination of the term of office of deputy representative on 10 May was taken by his colleague, Orepic, and thus he becomes a representative, and he is no longer a deputy representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29778	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 146 votes for, one abstention, no votes against a decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29779	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 20th session held on 4 May 2017 the written request of MP Slaven Dobrovic on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office of 2 May 2017, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 27 April 2017, the Government of the Republic of Croatia relieved him of the duties of the Minister of Environmental and Energy protection, thus ending his duties which was incompatible with the parliamentary duties. The Commission found that the stay of the term of office of Slaven Dobrovic was due to the incompatibility of the duty referred to in Article 9. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 14 October 2016 and on the same day Ljubica Ambrusec began acting as deputy deputy MP in the Croatian Parliament. How is Slaven Dobrović in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request for the re-behaving of the office of President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal period of time the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, and the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Slaven Dobrovic ceased on the eighth day of the application. On the same day, the conduct of Deputy Deputy Representative Ljubicu Ambrusec ceases. The commission unanimously reached a decision on the suspension of the term of office of the representative and the termination of the deputy deputy, also with a deadline of 10 May.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29780	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find it unanimous with 148 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29781	Thank you. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 20th session held on 4 May 2017 the written request of MP Ivan Kovačić on the re-behaving of the representative of the office from 3 May 2017, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 28 April 2017, the Government of the Republic of Croatia relieved him of the duties of the minister of the administration, which ceased his duties which was incompatible with the parliamentary duties. The Commission also found that the stay of the parliamentary term of office of Ivan Kovacic was due to the incompatibility referred to in Article 9. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 19 October 2016, and that Maro Kristic started acting as deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament on the same day. How is Ivan Kovacic in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request for the re-behaving of the parliamentary office, the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the commission found that the conditions had been met, and the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Ivan Kovacic ended on 8 days from the day of the application. On the same day, the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Maru Kristic, ceases. Following the above, the panel unanimously decided to suspend the term of office of the representative and to suspend the duties of deputy MPs, but this time with 11 May, since the request was submitted one day later than in two previous cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29782	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 149 votes in favour, 1 abstention and no vote against the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29783	So we shall move on to what is the first item of the agenda today, and that is: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I suggest we have three cases, so I suggest we have a united discussion about it. Of course they'll vote separately it's quite clear for each of them. If you're okay with the time savings. Here's what I think everyone agrees, so I'm going to ask the president of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Žarko Tušek to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29784	Here's a thank you, dear Vice President. I would still read each report individually and then discuss it. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 11th session held on 17 January 2017 the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Tomislav Karamark to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against God Petrov, representative of the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Bozo Petrov is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be unanimous with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following decision: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against the representatives of God Petrov shall be denied, at the request of the attorney-in-law Tomislav Karamark, following a complaint filed on 16 September 2016 to the municipal court in Zadar for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. So, in the case of private prosecutors, the Commission will continue to propose to the Croatian Parliament to deny the authorisation to launch or conduct the procedure. It is our view that the Institute of Immunity is established in order to protect the integrity of the duties of MPs and not to protect MPs as individuals. It is also important to say that the criminal proceedings can be initiated and managed after the end of the term of office, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. And here's to the report for Representative Mira Bulj. So also the Mandate-Immunity Commission at the session, our 11th session held on 17 January 2017, the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Tomislav Karamark to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mira Bulja, representative of the Croatian Parliament for the crime of slander referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Miro Bulj is also the 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 6 for and 1 against the Croatian Parliament proposes that the following decision be taken by the Croatian Parliament: That, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Mira Bulj at the request of the attorney-in-law Tomislav Karamark, under a complaint filed on 16 September 2016 also to the Municipal Court in Zadar for the criminal offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. The explanation is the same as in the first case. Thank you very much. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 10th session held on 15 December 2016 the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Staniša Zarkovic from Virovitica and Nenad Vlahovic from Gareshnica sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against the professor of science, Milorad Pupovac, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the crime of libel referred to in Article 149(1). Penalty law. Professor of Science Milorad Pupovac is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Assembly and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. However, when the Croatian Parliament is not together on the right of immunity, it decides the Mandate-Immunity Commission by having its decision subsequently confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 76(5) of the basic Article. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 27(1) and 116 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have unanimously reached a decision during the term of the parliamentary term of office to initiate the criminal proceedings against the representative of the professor of science, Milorad Pupovac, at the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Staniša Zarkovic of Virovitica and Nenad Vlahovic of Gareshnica, on the suit filed by the Municipal Court in Osijek for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1). Penalty law. And that's it, the explanation is the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29785	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and open the debate. The debate was first reported by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, on behalf of the SDP club, who will share the time with Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29786	It's about unification. Dear colleagues and colleagues first when explaining the reason why the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposed not to remove the immunity of two of the three MPs we have also called for practice so far. But the Mandatory has not fully called for practice so far. The practice so far has been to remove immunity for the state's attorney's proposal, and not to remove immunity for private prosecutors unless the one requested for the removal of immunity has been declared a criminal organisation by HDZ, then immunity is removed. This happened to Željko Jovanovic in 2011. We now have a milder form of declaring not a party but a leadership or then party president in this way, and we are in a dilemma whether we will join the practice so far in extensive or in this mild interpretation and help colleagues from HDZ to continue what they did in 2011, let's say, for example, by colleagues Željko Jovanovic. So this is one temptation that we have resisted, although we think that this trial, on the one hand, would be found by the former HDZ president, and on the other hand by the President of the Parliament and one of the most active parliamentary representatives from the ruling coalition, would indeed be a spectacle. And I think the Croatian public would enjoy hearing the arguments of both sides in that trial that might happen if the Croatian Parliament removed the immunity of counterparts Petrov and colleagues to Bulju. However, something else is also important to note. There is talk of something said in the campaign, politicians must, of course, be prepared to hear a little more at their expense, but politicians must also be aware of the responsibility for the spoken word. When something is said in a pre-election campaign, it is usually said in the campaign, so a little tension comes down after the campaign. However, after this request came public, one of the two colleagues did not lower tensions but went further to increase public tensions. So now we're talking about something that is the mode of political action of one of the MPs, it's also a legitimate choice, but that's why they have to bear the consequences, and they have to be willing to deal with how they do their political activity and when they cross that red line that politicians are certainly allowed to do so, but they have to be willing to take a counter-attack, or to face what they said in court if they're not willing to apologize to whoever they said it to. We are prepared, of course, to consider the request of colleagues if they themselves would like to be removed from their immunity and would not want to further complicate these matters. From this pay phone, of course, we can invite politicians who are acting in charge or who want to be held accountable once, to call their political rivals in a way that will not be able to end up in court. If they lose their word, let them be willing to take a step back or indeed face such charges before the court. I must say that I was really in a dilemma about how to vote on this request regarding my colleagues Bulja, but in order not to overcomplicate, we will continue with our practice so far, which is that for private lawsuits we will not remove immunity, although we do not support this way of communication with each other because as far as Mr Karamark is concerned, we cannot say that he was the most popular HDZ politician among us and that we have saved him something excessively. Between us, among us, among the SDPs. HDZ amongst SDPs and cannot be said to have oversaved him in public appearances, but apparently no one has built such a foul to deserve a slander suit from him, which his coalition partners and those with whom he is in the coalition today have succeeded today, and that is his party, of course, he is still a member. Therefore, if the HDZ colleagues do not want to protect the former president in this way, we will not push too much to do so. This will obviously be one story about the relations between MOST and HDZ and INA and will now continue with counterpart Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29787	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Otherwise, this debate took place quite intensively on the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I am not a supporter of those who say this is a matter of technique because this particular point today is a deep matter of politics and things how our country works. So that's not where the people who are in the opposition who chose it because maybe it's a figure of style in the Parliament, it'll be easier to get into the media, that's where the people who run our country are accused. Otherwise, HDZ's inconsistency, which is what we're used to, so there's no need to wonder why they vote one way for Jovanovic, and now they're going to vote another way. This is something that the Croatian public has become used to, that they are being accused of crime we are also used to because we have dozens of likely prominent HDZs who have been accused of the worst possible corruption and crime for the past ten years, but what we are not used to is that the whole government, the whole functioning of the state is essentially being questioned because of the relationship of two partners because one partner who is obviously bigger in the coalition has his own agenda, which he has spent the last 15, 20 years and continues to work in this way and another partner who is trying to be in power, and basically in the head is in opposition. So on the one hand, when they're attracted to the authorities and in some way they consume that power most often it's about staff issues, etc., and on the other hand when it's critical to talk because, of course, everyone in Croatia sees that it's not good what HDZ does then they appear and they're very active and then we're very often confused by listening to a colleague of Bula what he's saying and why he's been saying the same thing for a year and he's not doing anything and nothing de facto is happening, meaning specifically in the government. And what are the problems? And our citizens here are probably wondering why things don't work out about INA, which is why Prime Minister Plenkovic doesn't know what he's going to answer yesterday and what he's going to do about INA? So you see the paradoxical situation, he recognizes that Minister Dalic is in conflict of interest and does not put in the Committee for Conflict of Interest...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29788	A colleague of Maras, INA and a conflict of interest have nothing to do with this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29789	Absolutely they do, Mr. Reiner, because they absolutely do because of these things that happen here and the lawsuits that HDZ's one initiated against Mr. Petrov and his colleagues from MOST, these things happen. I have to tell the Croatian citizens. So because Mr. Petrov and most of the people at the Most say these things, the president of the HDZ has been removed because he was caught in criminal activities. HDZ president, their coalition partner with whom they are now in the coalition, have been replaced because he was caught in corruption operations. As a result, yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic does not know what to do and appoints a commission, otherwise it is the usual practice of this government, when a problem has been appointed by the commission and does nothing, he appoints a commission where the person to whom he has been called is not in the process. So he recognizes her conflict of interest, he's afraid he won't experience the attack because he didn't communicate with his colleagues at MOST so that maybe Mr. Petrov won't attack him tomorrow as he attacked the previous HDZ president and things don't work. Same thing about tax reform, same thing about selling HEP. So Prime Minister Plenkovic is afraid that Mr Petrov will not call him president of the HDZ...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29790	Comrade Maras, please stick to the subject. This isn't a topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29791	I stick to the subject all the time, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29792	No, don't stick to the subject at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29793	I stick with the whole time, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29794	Comrade Pernar, please don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29795	So Mr. Plenkovic fears that Mr. Petrov does not accuse him, as he accused the previous HDZ president of being removed because he has been caught in corruption and criminal activities and can't make it, so these key decisions that Prime Minister Plenkovic must make are paralysed because there is no genuine co-operation, because there is only the issue of immediate benefits because they are both in power. And that's what I want to tell you. It is very important for Croatian citizens to hear that this government is not working because of the enormous mutual mistrust, because of the reservations that I absolutely think are justified by the Most marked by HDZ's actions for the last 10, 15 years and I would be, not worried but I think that such cooperation would be impossible. But that's why the state can't take it, that's why Prime Minister Plenkovic can't know what to do about INA, what to do about HEP, what to do about the waste management plan, what to do about competitions for public companies...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29796	Comrade Maras, I am reminding you again now, not the subject of either the prime minister or the minister, we have very clearly defined problems and clear persons here to discuss whether immunity will be removed or not. I'm asking you nicely to stick to the subject without using it for what bothered me a little bit because I just heard the word spectacle. I know some people want to make a spectacle out of this assembly, but don't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29797	Mr. Vice President, I can't discuss what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29798	You don't need to, but stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29799	I can't discuss what you're going to write to me and I can read it there. I have to say this is a first-class political scandal that two partners are being accused of crime and leading the state. It's a first-class political scandal. And that's why the RS decision was blocked, which is why Prime Minister Plenkovic doesn't know what to do about the INA or the HEP, or about the waste management plan, or about many other things, and citizens need to hear it. Well, Mr. Vice President of the Most or I don't know if the president or when you have the election, so he'll be the president of the Most Mr. Petrov, the president of the Croatian Parliament said that he was removed because he was caught in criminal activities. So what is not a topic that Croatian citizens must generally ask themselves why MOST and HDZ and how can they co-operate in general? How is that possible when so much is a dose of mistrust and inability to cooperate? And on that side, we don't need to be surprised at all, it's going to happen in the next period. We'll listen to Bulja for four years here saying they're all the same and nothing's going to change, the things that are crucial will be blocked, the Prime Minister will have a reserve on what to do in the future because there's no support because this government doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29800	My fellow I now warn you, please stick to the subject. The topic is not the Prime Minister, we know exactly who the subject is and please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29801	I stick to the subject all the time. I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, I don't mean to argue with you here, I just want to that Croatian citizens know that this authority is not designed to make them better, that it will work rather than it is made up of partial and petty interests and it will continue to function and will be inefficient and is now the most inefficient government in the Republic of Croatia. [[You can't even do that.]] Because if the Prime Minister gets lost around the INA yesterday because of his mistrust, because of a coalition partner's mistrust means we're going to keep paying that price. And this is not a purely technical question, and this is what our people need to hear about. And why, for example, the HDZ colleagues insist until yesterday, I would say the accepted, promised president of his party who won over 90 thousand votes on an internal party without any, here I bet that in no replica that I will receive today there will be no defence of former HDZ President Karamark. Until six months ago, everyone was clapping at him, experiencing emotional emotions when he entered the hall, and today everyone is going to be fenced and tell me what Maras even mentioned Karamark? Why does he mention Karamark? So I mention it because I am the president of the Assembly of your prominent member, not only him and Jozo Petrovic is still a prominent member of the HDZ. What do you think he has nothing to do with INA right now, that he doesn't get involved at all, that he doesn't care, that he doesn't earn his money as a consultant? So can anyone be naive that it all changed in the HDZ in two months and that those who had ties to the INA until two months ago and that those who had ties to the INA by two months had no more. Please, Croatian people, Croatian citizens must be aware that the same policy continues, which is why the former government has fallen, only the problems will be bigger and bigger, only it will be more inefficient and inefficient. And for this reason, I will vote, or the club of representatives, as Arsen said, has its own position, which is a question of practice so far, although it is definitely out of practice here so far that because of this case and this operation of coalition partners, the functioning of our country is compromised as much as we laugh at colleagues from MOST and think that people don't see it. People see and wonder how they can co-operate with those who accuse of the most serious crime and betray national interests. How is it that Mr. Bulj can click as they please, and he knows how they did and how they function? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29802	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas, but there'll be a breach of the Rules of Procedure sooner. First Reverend Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29803	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Maras, injured Article 232. He talked about everything, just not the agenda point. I was talking about the agenda yesterday, but a little bit wider, and you immediately warned me and interrupted me. And in the future, please, if it's possible to interrupt him and take away his word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29804	I warned my colleague Maras, you were correct, and when I warned you, and I did not warn you, you stopped speaking. Unfortunately, colleague Maras was not correct and continued to speak, but it was his usual way of functioning in this House anyway. The following breach of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29805	Article 33 and 34, 33, which speaks of the obligations of the President of the Parliament and of the 34th on the obligations of the Vice-President of the Parliament when replacing the President of the Parliament. A colleague, Maras, spoke here about a case on the agenda when a coalition partner, a member of the coalition, sued for defamation by the other two members of the coalition party because they called him a thief. They called him a thief because they thought he was a thief in the INA. A colleague, Maras, is trying to explain the context of this accusation, a context why Karamarko sues two prominent MOSTs for slander, they believe he is a thief. And that's what they called him in public. And now Maras is trying to explain the context of what happened in INA. You've got him five times. You're preventing it. [[Thank you very much.]] Five times.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29806	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazić, of course I will prevent the speech of what is not the agenda, and the stories of the context are an excuse and you know very well, that unfortunately in this Assembly there is talk of everything other than the points of the agenda, and that and such an approach actually destroys the reputation of this Assembly that I care about. I don't know if you do, but I do. Therefore, I appeal to all other colleagues who will have a large number come forward for this debate, interesting. We've never had anything but last time, it's always been settled without big debates. Now it's clearly what he wants to use for political reasons. I'm appealing to that and I'm asking you to talk exclusively about the subject. Here is the next violation of the Rules of Procedure by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29807	Thank you very much, Vice President. You violated Rules of Procedure No. 240th because you gave the MP a warning twice in a row, and that is not possible according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29808	No, I only said one warning. Next time, you'd take away his word for it if I'd given him a warning. So, I am, I know the Rules of Procedure very well. Thank you very much. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29809	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I also believe that you have violated Article 232. The Rules of Procedure, because you are, in which it writes nicely if the speaker is away from the agenda theme, will be chaired by the chairman to warn him to stick to the agenda theme. If the speaker does not hold the agenda theme after the second call, the chairman will take away his word and may not take part in further debate on the agenda. You warned him on several occasions and warned him to stick to the subject of the agenda, but you continued to let him speak so. I don't think it was necessary to interrupt him at all, because I don't know if anyone's holding Mr. Maras like this seriously anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29810	So you see that I'm trying to be maximumly democratic and let people get away from the agenda, but to a certain limit. When that line is crossed and the borders are crossed not only of this Rules of Procedure but also of courtesy, then I react. But I'm pretty wide because I think you should be democratic in this House. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić. And I'm sorry, you've reached out to the replica. I'm sorry, yes. Now we're going to the replicas. The first are the replicas to show colleagues to Bauk. Dear Representative, Žarko Tušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29811	Thank you, Vice President. Only the introduction of the ultimate statement of all democratic processes in society, and so in our Croatian country are citizens. So let's say the elections that took place a few months ago, they responded as the ultimate statement of all democratic processes. So they responded to any problems that the former HDZ officials and current MOST officials had in coalition relations, and they responded in a very elegant way, which is that they are in our joint vote. to individual, our programme and our candidates gave even more support than we had before. You, unfortunately, can't understand it in any way, and it hurts you perfectly, and I know that you will look for every policy situation to return 15 years back, 10 years back, 5 months back, or any way back, but the truth is only one, HDZ, MOST and political actors in this House who support us have given us and we will stablely manage in the future I am convinced of that. And to return to the very subject and matter of this debate today and end immunity and work of the Mandate-Immunity Commission as well as our practices. There I had no doubt that my colleague Bauk would act as he did and that as a responsible representative in the Croatian Parliament he would be in favour of keeping the current practice. In extreme terms, if some change in the same practice is discussed, it is certainly not one individual case, but some other pleums and bodies are in the Croatian parliamentary life where this could be discussed. It is not ideal, it is optimal, it is in some way assessed by both the Croatian legal profession and the political public. If there were any jumps from those tracks I must say here she was not good even though the test was different than my colleague Bauk said. But I believe that everything else would violate the system that we have today and bring the Croatian Parliament into the position that it is a parliamentary majority arbitration in each individual case, and that would be much, much smaller democratic values and standards than we have today. And that's why I support being stable and sticking to the practice that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29812	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Mark Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29813	...just replicated in that part that refers to the intention of starting production of spectacles. It's possible that this spectacle began but not by our will. In order to prevent the spectacle, we need to come from some facts, the first is that this is the HDZ and Most government and that to the extent that the Most supports HDZ, to the extent that HDZ supports the HDZ, we are not the same. The bridge will never be HDZ or HDZ will ever be Most. What we're discussing right now is a private lawsuit. It's not about the yield between HDZ and the Most. It's about the relationship between Karamark and Bulj and Karamark and Petrov. It's something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29814	Please don't throw it out of the bench, especially not those remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29815	In this way we come to a real area, and this area is called, the area of responsibility for the spoken word. What's said, as it is said, we don't know it yet will determine the court. My colleague Bauk comes from that I was in Zadar and I witness what was said, and I will not tell you what was said and certainly not the way the media was intermediated. That's what I'm saying. It is about media appearances, and the media has a careful choice of leksem, they choose concepts that should produce spectacles, and you are somehow on the line of the plot of the spectacle of Croatia. It is evident in this House that we are constantly in the position of the search for a political entity, and that is most tragic to me as a political theory that deals with the philosophy of politics. I find it very dramatic that we are constantly in a position to find a political entity if it is not there. We have predictable agendas about how someone will act, what they will say, but from this predictability we also have the collapse of democracy, because instead of justifying the truth in the will of the people, we base the truth in the idea of the enemy, and you support that idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29816	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29817	I've tried my best, my colleague Bull, but I may not be, but I am your brother. Here we go, but let's see if the media's got it all figured out. I have to stick to the subject. So, the lawsuit that we're discussing today states your statement "are political elites that have issued national interests by protecting Karamark, Sanader and all the robberies that have happened before knowingly putting a private prosecutor in the context of the perpetrators of the robbery, even though he is aware that his statement to the private prosecutor is not true". And for Mr. Petrov, he writes "the president of the HDZ, Tomislav Karamarko, was removed because he was caught in criminal activities in order only after a month of voter support for the party". Therefore, Mr. Karamarko, who was the president of the HDZ, considers you a slanderer and you treat him as a criminal. So this is a coalition of those who think of each other as slanderers or criminals, and now instead of you apologizing to each other and stopping harassing us there, we still have to discuss this, and you say we're doing a spectacle. Well, you're making a spectacle. So you told the president of the party with whom you were in the coalition that he was a criminal, and he told you you were slanderers. And we're doing a spectacle? So we'd be irresponsible if you didn't make a spectacle of it like you said. This is a first-class political issue. So why don't you call Karamark, apologize to each other, get him to drop the lawsuit, and we'll stop this debate in half an hour, and we'll figure it out. No spectacles, no debates. And don't be offended if we tell you what it says, that's what you said to each other. And what opposition would we be if we didn't talk about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29818	Thank you. The following replicas are addressed to the presentation of fellow Maras. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29819	Thank you, Chairman. I listened to Mr. Maras, and in most of his exposure, I agree. But there is one part of the exposure that I disagree with. He said that MOST acts as if it were an opposition and that they were in power. I would like to say that, and he particularly attacked Mr. Mira Bulj, but I think that Mr. Bulj is one of the few people in this House who is not on a remote control unlike the vast majority of members and HDZ and SDP and who expressed his opinion, who, for example, voted against a budget that he disagreed with, unlike other members of the authorities who hypocritically called on me to make concrete proposals and amendments and then rejected them later, Mr. Bulj voted in favour. So it's not right to attack him as an actor, because he's not an actor. From what I've seen from his, because here it's not just a matter of saying a word, here's a question of how a man works at a certain point in his vote. I remember when it came to VAT hikes Mr. Bulj's caterers wasn't up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29820	My colleague Pernar, you are now also moving away from the subject by praising his fellow Bulls, which is quite fine, but it is not the darkness of this now. It is now a matter of removing immunity or not removing immunity from certain members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29821	As far as the rest of the exposure is concerned, I agree, I just wanted to say let's give my review of that detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29822	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, Maras, who needs an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a proposal for you to try to allow the debate because in this way you are potential a spectacle and follow the example of this distinguished MP from Bakar who probably the whole of Croatia knows his name, which is very relevant so that you let me talk, that I be relevant and that for him who is eager all voters to hear what he says, don't and interrupt him. And as for Mr. Bulj's situation, I'm not saying that Mr. Bulj voted every time, but that is, he's basically one spice to the Most, the spice to the Most that he has, and that's what I think here's one agreed way to the Most show his semi-opportional approach to the whole situation and the action. Because if there wasn't Mr. Bull, then we'd never have anyone to vote against. And they, in my opinion, have allowed Mr Bull to behave oppositionly within the parliamentary majority. That's the only thing I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29824	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29825	Dear Vice President, fellow Maras is the saddest part of everything you think this debate is some kind of field where you can point, an INA debate. This is the last debate, the last topic on which you SDP can contact at all. Let's remember Mr. Linic and the white nights, let's remember Karamarko had Jozo Petrovic I'm just replicating. [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow Grmoy now you are moving away from the topic, please.]] You let a colleague of Maras here give us a lecture I replicate So Karamarko had Joza Petrovic, Zoran Milanovic had Siniša Petrovic. [[I warned him about that same thing, let's not go on white nights.]] And the man I believe to be the bad guy in Croatian politics Ivan Vrdoljak in this situation is protecting national interests while Zoran Milanovic is not protecting probably because Vrdoljak belonged to some other energy lobby. Don't talk about INA, don't talk about INA. And it's clear to me that you don't understand us, it's clear to me that you can't understand that a group of people in the past government for the first time refused to overrule, and that's why for the first time since this country exists, the Croatian government has fallen. It's not clear to you and you're wondering how you can't buy yourself, you can't buy yourself positions, how do you have the right to your own opinion? You don't understand it, and I understand it because you're not used to the way it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29826	The Honorable Representative Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29827	Mr. Grmoya, it's easy that I don't understand you, but most Croatian citizens don't understand you. They don't understand why you object to HDZ for certain things, why do you call them criminals and why are you now mentioning the former prime minister so why is there no such statement for him? Why isn't he in that context? Because there is no such situation, he does not have that interesting link as did former HDZ president Milanovic and say so freely, say so freely, so I have not seen such statements from you. ... And what does Sinisa Petrovic, Sinisa Petrovic, mean? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29828	Please, first of all, let's not throw ourselves off the bench, secondly I say again, let's stick to the subject. It's about removing or not removing immunity from three members of this high house. Let's not undermine the level of discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29829	And as for the INA itself, Mr. Grmoya, I don't know if you followed, I was the initiator of the INA in 2010 when Prime Minister Sanders also came to answer for... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29830	As I told my colleagues Grumoji not to talk about the subject outside I ask you again not to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29831	Don't beg me. I'm just answering.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29832	Then I warn you, once again, by taking away your words. I warned you by taking away your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29833	And why did you take my word?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29834	Because you're not answering, because you're having a discussion with me. ... Because you have no right to discuss with me in a situation like this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Read your Rules of Procedure and you will know how to behave then finally in the Parliament properly. Dear Representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29835	Thank you very much. Well, you spoke to your colleague Maras in your discussion about another subject and we're talking about removing immunity from another subject, but you mentioned... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29836	Comrade Stazic, please don't yell from the scene. ... No, you can't interfere with my colleague Boric speaking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29837	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29838	Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29839	So colleague Maras called us for inconsistency. He told us what the consistency of HDZ looks like. I have to compare here how the SDP's appearance of consistency especially with him personally. For several days now, they've been looking for persistent travel costs, reasons for the President's trip, etc. what she was doing in America, what she was dealing with, who paid for it, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29840	Comrade Boric, what does this have to do with removing immunity?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29841	So I answer to the line. ... So let me finish. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29842	Please focus on the subject. This doesn't make any sense anymore. Now we're gonna go in there and we're gonna fight, one of us is gonna step away from the rules and then the other one's gonna stand down again, and what? And where are we gonna come from? We'll...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29843	.../Intruder Boric: But fellow Maras carried out a series.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29844	...to discuss everything and everything? So let's concentrate on what's really a topic right now. I'm asking you nicely, but really everything to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29845	I'm trying to replicate on his exposure which is very...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29846	I know, but don't do it the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29847	Then we won't replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29848	I appeal not to be the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29849	Then I won't replicate. Then it doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29850	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29851	Mr. Vice President, I had the intention of raising the breach of the Rules of Procedure after which you warned Mr. Maras, a colleague of Maras, and then I had the intention of replicating what he was saying and not being in the topic. Almost all his exposure was out of the question, and that's removing immunity to Mr. President of Parliament and Mr. Bull. So you don't fall into that same trap right now if you remind me not to stick to the subject I won't replicate, but I ask you, since I gave up my line, that when Mr. Maras and someone else is out of the picture to warn him or let us return it to him in the same way. That's what I'm asking you. So we at the Croatian Democratic Community club will not tolerate Mr Maras or any other representative insulting us and beyond the subject without us answering. So now, by respecting your position, I'm going to withdraw the replica and I'm not going to replicate it because there's quite a bit of what Mr. Maras was talking about on behalf of the club to replicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29852	Thank you very much for sticking to that attitude I take here, which is to stick to the subject. That's why I had to remind my colleague Maras, unfortunately, to take away his word for it because he continued with this incorrect behavior. And I'm asking you all to be correct, let's talk about the subject that we're talking about right now. The next line is, the answer to the replica, please choose your colleague Maras. No, you can't, I took the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29853	I can, I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29854	I'm a taken word. So how?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29855	Excuse me, then I'll hurt the Rules of Procedure. Can I hurt the Rules of Procedure? No, but it's out of point. Oh, no? So that's what I can do? May I, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29856	Comrade Maras, please. Don't make a spectacle like my colleague Bauk said from this assembly I'm asking nicely. Well, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29857	Article 240 has been injured. You, if you were going to take away the word from me until the end of this point, and obviously Maras is a bigger problem than what the president of HDZ is called a criminal, and this one... So the bigger problem is talking about it in the Croatian Parliament than it is, and what these people are doing in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, well, that's your business. But since you haven't taken me away from the session, I think you've misread this article and I have the right to speak further. I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29858	All right, come on. I'm famous for being pretty broad-minded about it. Here are the replicas I hope will be in the topic. No, he can now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29859	Thank you very much. Although I said one more time, so I would like not to be called incorrect because I am talking about problems that plague the Croatian state and behavioural authorities in mutual relations. So I wouldn't be a good representative if I told people everything was beautiful and beautiful while the president of one coalition partner is being accused of being a criminal by another coalition partner. And I'm asking you, Mr. President, and that's what I'm saying, here's what I'm saying to my colleague Bacic to let the MPs decide who's right, who's wrong, who has arguments, who has no arguments. And this does not humiliate the Croatian Parliament, it humiliates this debate between coalition partners. And the principle that one coalition partner shakes hands and supports another coalition partner who thinks he's being led by a criminal. Here is what is problematic in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29860	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29861	So I would like to say that article 231 gives the words: “The president gives the MPs the word in the order in which they applied. The president is concerned that the speaker should not be distracted or prevented in his speech." In my opinion, by persistently breaking into the words of the speakers, it is simply that the debate is unnecessarily delayed. It's just that you're not the one who's been taking part in the debate all along with your comments. You're actually prolonging this instead of letting a man tell his own. [[Employer Reiner: A colleague of Pernar...]] Say Mr. Maras, he could apologize for 10 minutes and say goodbye, sit down. But by constantly raising these injuries to the Rules of Procedure by the MPs and constantly distracting the speakers in the speech by you, the debate is simply becoming unsightly. This is, this is, let people talk and don't defend each other. If you want to talk, please report for an individual debate, you have 10 minutes or for a replica, not these injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29862	Comrade Pernar, first of all, you have now committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so it is bizarre to talk about the fact that it is not good to raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And secondly, when you get so many votes in the next election, make most of it and hold a session, then you'll probably lead it in a completely different way than I do. I'm convinced of that. But for as long as I run it, I'll run it the way I think it's best. Dear Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29863	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Maras, I know that you are as a longtime parliamentary representative and the best minister in all estimates since the 1990s I will repeat once more. I can only tell you that it would be best for you in the SDP for Pedja Grbin to lead Mark Perkovic Thompson's song "The White Nights of the Black Paths", and it can be conducted by Siniš Petrovic with the help of your former President Zoran Milanovic. And you can call Slavko Linic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29864	A fellow Bull. I don't know if this whole story makes any sense at all. Are you gonna answer that or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29865	Here's the thing about smoking Nikola a little bit, because I see it's really funny, he's fun, Bull. So, Mr. Bull, let go of all the ones you've listed here. We're here to discuss that you called and accused President HDZ of robbing, and you raise your hand and support the HDZ government. These are not people who have disappeared from politics, these are the people of the prominent HDZ members and Jozo Petrovic and Tomislav Karamarko. And now you're trying to sell the story to the Croatian people that you are here are very happy to have Mira Bulja and MOST because he will protect them, and tomorrow you'll push the head of the office of your former in the Management of the People's Newspaper, and the man has never had anywhere near such a responsible duty. Then be consistent until the end, say you're doing the same thing as HDZ. The speakers speak at the same time....you tell stories, but well less and less people believe those stories.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29866	Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Maras, the decisions we're discussing here today are not at all controversial and you know it very well. I am therefore very surprised that you, as a longtime parliamentary representative who well knows the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, are deliberately leaving in another direction, deliberately doing so and it is not correct. The decisions we're discussing here are, as I said, not controversial, so don't do what's wrong. Don't do this. Who are being clapped by HDZ today is not your problem, as it is perfectly none of our business who you're clapping today, and that certainly isn't your former president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29868	The Honorable Representative Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29869	Well, I'd like to clap at you if you'd say something I agree with. What's the problem with clapping someone? Well, let's just say, I get to slap Bull a lot just a little bit of what's a little bit of a denial in that problem. So he flashes a little bit in a positive direction, and then tomorrow he goes back to the way he was. And once again, so the topic that is very important here, Mrs. Lukacic, and why I insist on this is to see how much mistrust is and how the coalition partner works.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29870	My colleague Maras is not a subject, and that is why I am warning you all the time. The topic is removing immunity or not removing immunity from three members, it's a topic, not coalitions, relationship between coalitions, etc. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of Nikola Grmoje will speak. What? I'm sorry my support my colleague Misic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29871	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Maras. This looks like a theater show to me. I don't know if I'm gonna miss out on the subject. This House looks like a theater that we should laugh instead of seriously talking about serious problems. I personally feel so uncomfortable that I feel that I would prefer to leave the Parliament, leave and tell the gentlemen to make a circus, you have made a circus out of a single institution that is serious about which serious things we need to discuss. We're competing on who's going to be nicer and who's going to tell whom that they're just going to put down in some stuff like that. If you want to charge someone, Mr. Maras, you've had four years' chance, 50 billion taxes haven't been paid, 8 billion concessions about it kept quiet for four years. You've had a chance to talk about it in your own parties, and in all parties, you've had a chance to talk about it, and you're making this House a circus out of it. This should not be a theater this should be a serious assembly in which this matter should be debated seriously. I consider the word spoken by someone that they shouldn't even come to the Assembly to get that institution when the Parliament is finished, whether someone is guilty or not of the word spoken, but if someone in the House had embezzled some money that should be answered safely and removed, but the DORH needs to prove it and say that this man did it, that we don't do some things just to sit here and tell some empty stories, it's going to be the whole day that I see, so we did yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29872	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29873	Mr. Misic, please just ask yourself a question of who you trust. Do you trust Mr. Petrov and Bulj that HDZ president is a criminal who has done criminal acts and that therefore the government has passed by the way that 5.6 ministers who were in the past government or you trust HDZ President Karamark to formerly be slandered and use the situation that is in Croatia to act politically in this way. And then when you ask yourself that question, then you'll see that it's not a question of theater, it's a matter of state functioning. And that's why yesterday Mr. Plenkovic can't make a decision about INA, because he doesn't know how the Most people will set themselves up. Well, that's the problem. I keep saying that our government isn't working, and most of us don't. Well, it's not government and most people just press the button on Friday to see if we're 76. That's not it. Whether institutions work, the government is a much wider story than I have had the opportunity to touch in this debate at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29874	Next on behalf of the Most, the honourable representative of Nikola Grmoi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29875	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I have prepared one debate, but since everything has gone in one other direction and that my colleague Marasa, that his colleague Maras is trying to score in one way and it is not clear to him that just because there is a MOST thing will happen in Croatia in the right way. Just because there's a MOST we're talking about different models of INA purchases. If there was a MOST there at the time of Slavko Linic then they might not sell themselves white nights because Miro Bulj would say no white nights, we are going to a referendum. There's no sale, and you don't get it. It is in no way clear to you that we are people who think for themselves, who have been chosen by citizens and are primarily the goal of protecting our national interests. If MOST had existed before and had only participated in the government, perhaps we shouldn't buy INA at all now, the INA would be in Croatian, not perhaps but I'm sure it would be owned by Croatia. You think everyone should be on click as you say, we're not on click. In the first elections we went out in Dubrovnik-Neretva County when we won four county councilors I talked to a HDZ coalitionman who offered us a coalition and I tell them you are legitimate winners, we will support the establishment of the assembly and then we will further see what your decisions will be, that will depend on what decision it is, what project we will support. And he says it's easier for us to buy Jamba. I was telling your colleague who sat next to you, Minister of the former Bauku, not to go to the coalition with Jamba at the local level in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and he wouldn't listen to me, says it's mathematics, politics is mathematics, the number of votes. It's not math for us, it's a struggle for national interests for citizens, and that's how we'll always behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29876	.../Intruder Reiner: A fellow Grmo, now you have gone from the subject completely./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29877	This man right here, I'll be back on the subject, This man here, Miro Bulj, has always been like my colleague Pernar said. [[Let the man speak.]] You're giving him something and he's showing him the works of not saying that he has his own attitude and that he thinks for himself. And he was always like that. I'm going to this Parliament here, he's asking for his immunity, I understand what he's trying to say, he wants to ironize things when no one's answered, let me remind you a little what Mr. Miro Bulj has done all his life and you call him this while you're pushing into politics to become one of the most successful ministers in Croatia's history. So Miro Bulj was 19 years old while some stole this country, when he was 19 years old he went to war, took a rifle and defended this country while some of them, and some of you were foreigners in this country and in this country, stealing Croatia in all parties. He defended Croatia. While some were thinking about how to steal the public company Miro Bulj took the VBR and took out the full charge on the Chestniks on the City and could never endanger the Peruch dam again. So he was protecting the property of HEP while some of them were stealing from public companies. Miro Bulj was always with the workers, he was always socially sensitive. Do you know that Miro Bulj, while Ivo Sanader was a God who walked on the ground in 2007 when they went to remove the plate set by General Gotovina in 99, while you persecuted him as a beast and here means a party that is on my right hand that Miro Buli Ivo Sanader told the traitor and will end you. And that at that time he was forbidden to participate in Sinjska alca, and that is still true today. Did you know about those details? Did you know that he brought asphalt to every house on his local board except his house? And he's a really ideal person who should be responsible for this country's absurd being bigger, and you brought this country here where she is now not Miro Bulj, not MOST. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29878	Thank you. Before we move on to the replicas of respected MPs and MPs, allow me to welcome this year's participants of the international scholarship programme at the gallery, which, as part of the German Bundestag scholarship programme, are staying for a three-day study visit to the Croatian Parliament. I hope that this will also contribute to the level of discussion that will now continue and which first appeared for the replica, the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29879	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29880	Comrade Pernar, please leave the assembly room and eat the apple in peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29881	Well, I don't eat it, Mr. Rainer. I don't eat it because I can't have an apple on my desk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29882	You're repeating things that are completely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29883	Mr. Reiner, please allow me to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29884	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29885	Thank you. I would like to say that Mr. Grumoja mentioned it in his presentation or on behalf of the club that MOST was discussing various models of INAE's purchase. On the other hand, the MOST accused certain HDZ people of stealing Croatia. I must say that regarding the removal of immunity is that it is my opinion that my request is not justified because my colleagues at MOST are right when they say of former HDZ President Tomislav Karamark that he was infused in crime. But it's my opinion that he wasn't the only one. And since INA is the current topic I suggest one...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29886	.../Intruder Reiner: No INA is not a topic at all, the topic is to download.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29887	...but he mentioned the question, because that's why there was this debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29888	.../Intruder Reiner: Immunity or not removing immunity./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29889	... andthefall ofgovernment etc. I have the original solution for buying INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29890	.../Intruder Reiner, colleague Pernar, please. Stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29891	All right, all right. But here it is for Mr....
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29892	.../Intruder Reiner: We are not interested in your original solution at all. We're interested in your position on whether or not immunity should be lifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29893	Just one sentence and then I'll say what I think. Here's what he says. Here's what you think I'm asking all my fellow MPs and the Croatian public to buy INA by returning the money they've been stealing for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29894	You're out of time. The next replica, if you'll excuse me, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29895	Dear Vice President, my colleague Pernar means I was saying that the situation in which Croatia is located is responsible for individuals from all parties. It's not what we said about Karamark, it's what we did when it comes to Karamarko. We warned, Mr. Bulj first warned of a possible conflict of interest and relationship with Jozo Petrovic. So, he did, did not say later that he was then and then Christo, as Evey Sanader did while everyone was nodding his head you are a traitor and all those who persecute Croatian generals, those who have called, even offered a cash amount for it. So that's when he said it and it's not at all controversial. And now it's coming down to how the Most can cooperate, we cooperate because we got as much as we got. Well, we gave the opposition a chance to win the new election and get a new chance and nothing again. This shows that people can't recognize how successful Minister Maras was and that's why I keep repeating here so that people finally realize how good this man has done for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29896	The next is a replica of the distinguished representatives of Anne-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29897	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoja, you pointed out in your presentation that MP Miro Bulj had been sitting in the Croatian Parliament before so that there would be no sale of white nights. Well, I'm asking you here in front of everyone now, since Mr. Bully is sitting here right now, does that mean that he's definitely not going to make it to HEP stock sale and that MOST is definitely not going to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29898	Comrade Petin, how many times do I have to say that it's not a theme, not a white night, not an INA, but a removal of immunity or a removal of immunity? So come on, guys, I really don't understand how it works here anymore. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29899	Thank you very much. When you listen to Mr. Grmoy, I thank him let him keep praising me then understand why there are sects in the world. They are convinced that they are the Messianics, that without them there is nothing they can do, that they can save nothing but everything and then they really convince one part of the people. People sell everything. They're selling their house because they know tomorrow is the end of the world. So when you listen to such enthusiasm sometimes, some of these people can compare it to your speeches. So, what you're repeating, Mr. Grmoya, thank God it was Most 10 years ago, there'd be nothing. It's an empty story, because we can never prove it, only you believe it. Most people in Croatia don't believe it otherwise you'd get 50% of the election. Right? So you're talking about what you believe and why you don't let others talk about what you believe. And you're attacking them because I'm saying it's not normal to support people you say are criminals yesterday. So it's not easy to explain logically. So, if you were talking yesterday, it's not but nemesis. These are people who are prominent members of the HDZ still. What do you think Jozo Petrovic has nothing to do with INA now and MOL? What do you think he's not trying to get to Maric, Plenkovic, anyone else? It's his job. He's got these contacts. That's why he got paid. But you support these people and support the concept that has been so far. And that's all I'm saying. Whether it's going to be for you in four years or not, I don't know, we'll see. But what makes it a problem to mention it? Which is why it's a problem to mention that it's illogical for me that Miro is so fierce about some things and that he supports that government. It's something that's a fundamental question, and maybe Sanader meant what he meant about Mr. Bulj because he came out of HDZ, not because he was personally resentful of something. Because my colleague Bull was in HDZ, you know that, no. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29900	Time. Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29901	Thank you, Vice President. Rules of Procedure 232 of the article have been injured. Mr. Maras got away from the subject again, you didn't warn him, and my colleague Ani-Marija Petin you even loathed at her, so please apologize to her because she was in the context of the replica of Mr. Grumoja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29902	I'm the first one I've known I've never caressed anyone here. And secondly, I agree, I agree with you that he's a colleague of Maras, but he's done it so many times already that we've all Googled it a little bit. But the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29903	Comrade Maras, you may be real and you are and I believe the best minister, but today you're a little confused. I'm not the one who believes it would have been so that it was MOST, but you've been saying it all morning, that the government isn't stable, that MOST is holding back some kind of decision. That's what you're saying. It means that MOST sets itself up as if it had its own view of something and that it was holding back decisions and that the government couldn't make a quick decision. That's what you've been saying all morning. I'm just repeating what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29904	Come on, buddy Maras, now you're starting to throw yourself out of the bench, so what do we do next? Would you bring an apple or a pizza here?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29905	I'm talking to my colleague Maras about you. So what is this, the chairman, can I finish it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29906	I'm warning you, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29907	I wanted to say that you are saying that MOST has been acting now since it exists on a political scene in a certain way as an opposition in power. If he acts like that, then I have the right to conclude if he's acting now so likely before. You're the ones who believe that MOST is such that it has its own... you've been saying it all morning and then you're telling us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29908	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29909	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grumo, when you picked up my colleagues' life path, Mira Bulja, you looked at this side, but Mr Mikulić is not sitting on this side. He first mentioned Mr. Bulj's life route in his last term, so we were all horrified. And now you're back with them in the coalition. So this is the topic, and I welcome here the appeal of my fellow vice president, to discuss the removal of immunity for what Mr. Bulj said, and we can be the best in the world, so we can get away from him to say wrong sometimes, and then he can refer that he didn't mean it, so he said that political elites have betrayed national interests by protecting Karamark, Sanader and all the robberies that were happening before, and knowingly put the private prosecutor in the context of the perpetrators of the robbery. So I'm interested in your opinion whether Mr. Karamarko is right in this case, and you don't have to say him because perhaps Mr. Bulja would be in an awkward position when his parliamentary mandate and immunity expires to call for your statement. So you're in a really bad position if you say Bull's right then you insulted the HDZ, if you say Karamarko's right, then you've exposed the additional Mr. Bull. Therefore, I warn you that if you want to answer that question, you can, but I will understand your caution if you do not and do not answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29910	The Honorable representative of the bush will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29911	I've already answered. I said Mr. Bulj didn't just say that but also warned of a potential conflict of interest that was later proven. And now as the journalist said so in Zadar as counterpart Vučetic said and as it was transferred, it is generally known that Mr Karamarko was proven to have a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29912	The next one will speak on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29913	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Parliament. Here is the subject of the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, namely the part relating to the charges for the slander of Mr Tomislav Karamark towards the President of the Assembly, Bozi Petrov and fellow MP Bulju. We know from the past the work of the commission that there will be a decision of the Croatian Parliament, but we should return a little to the causes that have even led to this defamation suit. So the indictment is that Karamarko was said to have left HDZ president over criminal activities. Mr. Karamarko has a long history of slander lawsuits, so in these disputes mentions whistle whistler Sonja Vlahek, journalist Domagoj Margetić, I don't know Nacional, you also have Mijat Stanić trade unionists etc. a very long history of conflict or hiding behind it. I will look back at Sonja Vlahek, which I already mentioned in this Assembly whistle, Mrs. Vlahek worked in Croatia as former head of the Office for Corporate Communications of the Croatian Post Office, and for years without success she pointed to the illegality and corruption of the work of the Croatian Post Office. She also warned of a case involving Mr Tomislav Karamark and other members of the government at the time. It's extremely relevant because we know what's going on with Mr. Calmett and that he's being tried these days. Why does it all matter? It's important that our institutions work, and they don't work, then we wouldn't be here where we are and there wouldn't be any slander charges, because some would have been sanctioned long ago. Here's an example, so this year a small criminal is convicted of writing the newspaper Dario Schneider called the Bowl, probably looking at this from Remetinc, so out of the total of 20 heist raids in which at least 1.2 million kuna has been reached in three years. He was sentenced to 7.5 years in prison. He says he was breaking into post office and banking offices, masked with jokes, scarfs, he was convicted, but it's a petty criminal. What about what Mrs. Vlahek warned about with the withdrawal of money? It's a big crime. You remember that German saying, "We send little thieves to the gallows, and we take off our hats in front of them." And now let's look at the state's attorney's budget. 2014 in millions, 41 million, 2015 47 million, 2016. 55 million and there are now some projections 64,...somewhere in the rankings of 50, 60 million on average in the last few years. On the other hand, let us look at the budget of the Croatian Government in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29914	My colleague Sincic, we do not speak again, I must warn you as well as some predecessors about the budget now whether it is a good budget for the DORH, whether it is a good budget for the government, we are talking about the issue of removing immunity because of libel.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29915	Thank you, colleague Reiner. I am in the context that it would not be possible for the institutions to do their job, if double standards were in force in Croatia. So 236 million, 275 and then jumps from 230 to 350. Mr. Plenkovic increased his funds by 50%. On the other hand, who's been reading the DORH report this thick blue book, you can see that there's a state attorney inside that I don't think anything good about Dinko Cwitan is crying out for funds that I can do my job, to process crime in time. No, there's no money here, the authorities in this country have been told that we have an impotent DORH, an incompetent DORH, a corrupt, full of clientelism, that he can't prosecute the crime of all sides. If he could have been a long time ago, he'd have been prosecuted as much in normal countries within two years, not to wait 10 years like we've been waiting for Calmet, and then we'll be tried for 10 years and then he'll be released if he doesn't die. That doesn't make sense. Let's go back to Mrs. Sonja Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29916	I'm sorry, Mrs. Sonja Vlahek is not a party here. ... Don't throw your friend Pernar off the bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Enough with your apples, you don't have to go any further. ... I remind you of my colleague Pernar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29917	In 15 minutes, I wanted to elaborate my opinion on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which is why such a decision was made and the causes that caused it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29918	I know, but please stick to the subject. You mention various events that are not related to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29919	I'm sticking to the subject. The theme is Mr. Karamarko, whether he was a criminal or not, and whether he left because of the crime. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29920	No, it's not a topic, it's a theme of taking down... I'm warning you for the second time choose to leave the hall. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29921	Comrade Reiner, please let us end in peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29922	Please call the guards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29923	I've got my time to expose the problem so everyone understands the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29924	I'm sorry to interrupt my colleague Sincic, but I'm asking you to take care of this situation. Have my colleague Pernar come out or voluntarily or we'll call the guards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29925	.../Intruder Pernar: Call the guards./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29926	Well, that was in the history of this Parliament, too, there were such excellent persons, so I know it suits you to create a spectacle, but anyway. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29927	May I continue?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29928	We'd better hang up before the spectacle caused by fellow Pernar ends. ... Time will get a colleague, Sincic, don't worry. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Since my colleague Pernar has calmed down, please continue with your colleague Sincic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29929	Thank you, Chairman. So I think it is very important for the moral hygiene of both Croatian society and the Parliament to read what Mrs. Vlahek said "Crime officers, and this is about the attack on her after testifying in the event of the withdrawal of money from the Croatian post office, the criminals are the most ranked members of a criminal criminal organisation that has robbed and is still robbing Croatia and the Croatian people. And which I have been investigating for the past decades, revealing, reporting, testifying against them." Adding that she was naive enough to trust the institutions of the system. There is not only the Karamarko issue, it also mentions Milanovic's family that allegedly pulled some money. When will the investigation be launched and when will we start protecting our whistles? I'll go back to the gentleman... An interesting case is Mr Stanic's unionist case in the Croatian highways which was also exposed to terror as he warned of illegalities, the withdrawal of money. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] For example, Stanic argues that the interior minister has affected the hitchhiking of investigations against HAC leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29930	Comrade Sincic, please forgive me, we will stop the time of course until this situation is resolved that colleague Pernar, who wants to draw public attention by force and the media will now finally be happy. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29931	I'm looking for a five-minute break on behalf of the HDZ Club until it's ready, set up a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29932	He can't get inside my speech when he's done with my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29933	... I'll think you didn't even start talking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have been denied the time of your fellow time, you have the right to speak, every time of course use your time and we will now take a break for peace in this House. I apologize to you for, unfortunately, being distracted by your exposure. It's 11:00.25. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] Unfortunately, I had to keep him away until the end of today. I don't like it, and I hope it never happens again, but there you go. A few colleagues called. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29935	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club because of this situation that was caused by the way we conduct the session and I ask you to grant me a break. It doesn't have to be 10 minutes, it could be two, just so the club can talk. ... Okay. Ten, that the club of representatives should address the Croatian public because this is really not the right thing to do in the Croatian Parliament. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29936	I agree that it is not the right thing to do in the Croatian Parliament, but unfortunately it is not me, but a colleague, at least you will probably try to show it differently. It's obvious to me from what you said, but good. Here you go. Dear Comrade Bunjac was next.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29937	Thank you, Vice President. I declare that it will appeal to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and I will ask for a concrete and precise list of how many times you have spoken to the Assembly today. That was at least a hundred times. And don't dive crocodile tears now, because you are responsible for this situation, not Agent Pernar. You simply didn't allow people to speak, but you were doing a spectacle of this constituency show, not the ones you insist that they wanted. Therefore, please take a look at a session led by Parliament Speaker Petrov or Vice President Jandrokovic and Brkic and learn something from the way they conduct the sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29938	Thank you very much. Of course, it's your right to endure. Dear Representative Beus Richembergh, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29939	On behalf of the HNS Club, I am also looking for a break from HSU on the same reason as my colleague Maras said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29940	Thank you. Anyone else? Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And the HDZ Club is looking for a break about these events just before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29942	Thank you. Dear Representative Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Party club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29944	Thank you. Dear comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29945	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall Club, I'm looking for a break to talk about today's non-democracy session.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29946	Thank you. Anyone else? No, I don't. Dear Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29947	On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break, on behalf of the MOST Club, on behalf of these events that preceded.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29948	Thank you. Okay, so I'll see you at 12:00. It's 11:50 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29950	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Before they start talking about the break, the Rules of Procedure in Article 241, 244 were injured, and I think it is very important that this scene we have now witnessed, which is a distance from the assembly, reminders, etc. must comply with the Rules of Procedure. Whether there are likely to be stories about who is to blame for this or whether the suffocating of the debate on your part that we regularly testify to in this regard, the reason why it all happened together is that you are obliged to respect our rules of procedure regardless of which representative or representative is responsible for respecting the rules of the Rules of Procedure. If you want to get another person out of the House, then you have to act there in a way that before it does, you have to make a decision about it. Mr. Sincic, our colleague has been expelled from the assembly without your decision. Read Article 244. The Rules of Procedure, you'll see it's true. As for the rest of the story, that means 241 before you had to set a double sentence for Mr. Pernar's parliamentary representative, you didn't do it. Therefore, respect the Rules of Procedure and then there will be more order here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29951	My colleague Ostojić, this is all you said is not true, and it's not true because you weren't here. You didn't sit here during the session, so you didn't follow what was going on or you didn't see it. So I acted strictly on the Rules of Procedure, so I warned my colleague once, and I warned him about taking the words away, and then there was a distance. No one else is away from the session, no one is denied the right to speak. My buddy Son sits there, don't talk. Please, let's be serious, let's not talk about a colleague of Sincic's gone, sitting there and now he'll talk, of course as the next speaker as I said. Here you go. What's hurt again?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29952	Dear Mr. Vice President, Article 244. I'll say it one more time. At first, it's not true that I wasn't there, I was a witness and I watched it all together, and I saw that the Assembly Guard, regardless of what you said about Mr. Sincic and the same man, was out of the hall, no matter who it was. That could happen tomorrow to some other representative or advocate. Second, don't tell the truth. I was in the hall, so I looked at it, and I saw what was going on. And third, do business with the Rules of Procedure, read it, and you'll see inside. Before that, you did not give a double measure to Mr. Pernar, and then you removed him from the hall. Therefore, do not say that before consulting the Rules of Procedure, then answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29953	Like this colleague Ostojić, please take whenever you want a stenogram of the session and you will see that I am right, not you. But now we're going to continue with the break. Comrade Bunjac, you've had the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29954	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 241 of my colleague Sincic is away from the session without your sanctioning the previous one, so it should be according to the Rules of Procedure. The guard ripped my cell phone out of my hand. I don't know that you've given me any kind of a strict measure. I think there's been an excess of authority and I think you're still taking this session in the wrong direction. If you can't control it, please stop it, not that we have to continue to witness these scenes that certainly destroy Parliament's dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29955	I agree that, and I hope that there will be no such scene that destroys Parliament's dignity. You know very well that I didn't give you or my colleague Sincic any punishment or anything. So I don't understand what it's about. Let's take a break. So first, on behalf of the SDP, the honourable representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. For the first time in this assembly, although I would not have put my hand in the fire if it were the last, but we should always believe, we attended the scene that civil servants intervened to carry out the action of the chairman's session on distance from the session. Of course, individual MPs can use it to make it more theatrical, so they're victims. And in one part, I can put it as the meaning of my political action, so they end up getting what they wanted, which may be legitimate, and maybe it isn't. They say again, man is classy. And when we talk about it, man's style is then the presidents of the session have their own style. So we in the opposition ranks talk about how the presidents conduct the session, and I must admit that we like the way in which we hold the session of Vice-President Brkic and Vice-President Jandrokovic far more than how we conduct Vice-President Reiner's session. And that's statisticalally speaking, maybe it can also be proved that when we see how many times the president has interrupted the speaker from sticking to the subject or how many times as many times as the chairman widely interprets it when someone is holding on to the topic. You, Mr. Vice President, in this session, have quite narrowly assessed what the subject is because members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission have received as material Mr. Karamark's lawsuit against Mr. Bulj and Petrov. And we felt that it was legitimate to talk about the reasons for the lawsuit, the circumstances that led to the lawsuit, the context of the lawsuit and the political relations between the two largest parties of the ruling coalition that came to the point of suing each other. These guys say they're criminals, and then these guys say they're slanderers. And it's a first-class political topic and, of course, it's a bit of a flammable subject in that context and you're a little overly strict about your attitude, which is legitimate again, but this time you're wrong about what the subject is, that we're at the end, that at the end of the debate, we're escalating in that we've come to a situation of distance from the session. Of course, that's our attitude. I believe that tensions need to be calmed down, that, of course, we should continue with argument and tolerate further debate and session. We suggest that the follow-up of this point is led by one of the neutral vice presidents, and in this case they are neutral either Mrs Opačić or Mr. Vrdoljak, so if MOST and HDZ are being sued here we are neutral, so we will end this to allow the representatives to speak a little more freely about this topic. Because we didn't sue, we didn't sue, we didn't put this on the agenda and it accuses us of making a spectacle. This time, neither onions nor onions smell. You picked up the ball and we nailed it. So don't put yourself in that position anymore. Either you get back together, or you put it in some less visible term, or you do what the Rules of Procedure allows you to do in the work of what you have the right to conduct a session. But once you've got that in mind, put a political bomb on Friday morning, then let it be discussed. So here's my humble appeal. So we will continue to participate in the debate after voting on this. We do not, of course, support neither the theatreisation, nor all that has been in the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure that led to "unforgiving scenes." I said I already don't think this is the last time in this term but it is up to us to make it as little times as possible for those who lead the session. During this debate, you also interrupted Mr. Boric, and Mrs. Petin, and Mr. Grumoy, Mr. Maras, for a good morning, but you even acted preventively on Mr. Bačić who did not dare replicate Marasa when he saw how strict you were. So, you remember that joke when it is, and now I'm gonna end up if you give me five more seconds, so you're in the situation of that driver who came to England, driving on the right side, and he says everyone's wrong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29957	Thank you very much. I'm glad that you've taken the initiative that I've treated everyone equally. I may have interpreted the subject a little more strictly by your assessment, but I was hoping that we'd actually focus on what the subject is. What I say is whoever thinks that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, that I have broken the Rules of Procedure there is a course way and there is a commission or Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political arrangement and can apply. I would now give my word to the honourable representative Goran Beus, who will speak for the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the HSZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29958	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, I use this opportunity to protest. Protest because we are witnesses precedentd in the recent history of the Croatian Parliament. There have also been cases in several past terms that a measure of distance has been expressed from the session. The parliamentary guard carried out the decision very elegantly because the MP was generally held to order, which is to respect the measure expressed and not physically oppose. This is the highlight of the reality show that is trying to turn the Croatian Parliament into in this term. I call on us to think carefully about whether we will continue to threaten the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, this high House, which should be an example to all in the Republic of Croatia of how political debates are being conducted and how conflicts are being resolved. The task of the chairman is to manage conflicts if it comes to them. Certainly not to contribute to escalation or to create new conflicts. In a situation where it is not possible for different reasons to carry out a measure because it opposes insubordination, it is not wise to order physical intervention. Today, we witnessed that it was not possible to carry out it as it was imposed, so a colleague, Sincic, as well as other colleagues who were physically close. We thus brought the parliamentary guard into a very awkward situation that they must carry out one order in a way that violates the powers given to them by the same order. On the other hand, the tasks of each representative and MP, the obligation of a moral, ethical obligation is to carry out the order of the chairman and respect him because he has a whole series of institutes to protest if he considers that he is suspended. This is not only a public announcement of complaints to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system but it is the possibility of communicating its message to the public and in other ways. In this House, a number of journalists and almost all the newsrooms have been accredited. Everything you have to say, and what you can't say in this assembly can be said in different forms. But using the Parliament to show some kind of muscle is extremely incorrect. What have we gotten ourselves into? Dispose of the Living Wall? The one who wanted to see that debacle actually lifted the sense of the political party's existence if you think about it better. However, what is extremely important to say in such situations in which, without a physical conflict, we cannot solve the new opportunities that have arisen, it would be good for the chairman to interrupt the session and not continue the same day. It would give everyone a chance to cool their heads and think about what they're doing and how they're acting. This is a convocation in which more than half of the MPs are first represented. I hoped that when they came to this Croatian Parliament they would feel that strength and spirit, that commitment and honor and that they would strive to treat the institution with the highest level of respect. Unfortunately, some of us have seen this as a debate club where no rules are respected. That's not good. Will the new Ethics Code that is now in the works ever help us to change our behavior? I'm afraid not. So I appeal to the conscience of all of us, figure out where we are. This is the most important place in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to making decisions. We are the mirror of this nation. We were sent by those who trust us to represent their interests, certainly not with the task of deepening social conflicts but to solve them. Political frustrations, insufficient success in elections, internal problems and all other things that have nothing to do with public interest we leave at the door of not parliament, but Parliament. And here we are fighting political battles for the ideas we stand for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29959	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Drago Prgomet will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29960	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, if successful, if you wanted to come to the front page of the portal by this act, then it worked. Whether it was staged or not, this is the way of relations with the Croatian Assembly... This kind of commentary, and at the end of the rejection of what the chairman asked for, it worked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, we can like the way the chairman runs the session or doesn't like it, but as long as it is within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, as long as it is within the framework of the law, we are as parliamentary representatives chosen by citizens to respect it. I repeat, like it or not. On the other hand, I fully understand that each of the MPs here sees as an opportunity for personal affirmation. What is not good, which seems to me to be some of the MPs you took as the only authentic interpreters of the will of the citizens forgetting that we are all elected here I repeat it at the will of the citizens you have right to be the voice of the people, the exclusive voice of the people or the national tribunals. So I'd just like to remind you of one thing, that there's a small line, a border between the people's tribunal and pulsism. For the people's tribune speaks what the people say, and the populist speak what the people love to hear. And if the citizens continue to give us negative grades on the work of the Parliament, then let's not forget we're ourselves to blame. This is an institution chosen according to the will of the citizens and it should be – serious, responsible in which someone said personal frustrations, the desire for self-promotion should be left outside. And to those who lead the assembly session, let them lead as the Rules of Procedure command. We will continue to advocate that this is indeed a place where serious decisions are made which are being decided, in which a democratic, reasoned manner is being discussed. Everything outside of that as a representative club is totally unacceptable. I understand, I repeat, that some see space here and an opportunity to often participate in the debates are imposed as serious political factors in this country. Well, I don't mind that, so here in the context we're constantly attacking Mr. Pernar as he constantly has comments on something he read a passage from a book by Ivo Andric and it's called "The Damned Aulium", maybe it's educational for all of us. We are more or less inclined to condemn those who speak a lot of things that do not concern them directly, even if with contempt we speak of these people as blasphemers and boring stories, and we do not think that this human, human, and so often the flaw has its own good side, and that their expressions are imperfect, colored by personal passions, needs or even incorrect because we have reason, experience and we can judge them, compare them with each other, receive them and reject them partially or entirely. So it's not on him. It's on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29961	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29962	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Our colleagues from the Living Wall since the third month of 2012 represent a group, and now representatives in the Croatian Parliament who prevent the actions of those who have found themselves in a situation that they cannot pay off their apartments, houses or that for some other reason they use spaces that are not their own or the decision of state institutions can no longer use them. It should not have happened for some of them to be decommissioned from the Parliament. It's a bad political message. In particular, it should not have happened that in the chaos that occurred, Col. Sincic was also delegated or remote, although there was no assumption of it, and there was no need. I also don't want to accuse the guards because she was in a situation where she had to do something that wasn't normal circumstances but taking a rough move of her cell phone hand out of her colleague Bunjca's hand is also not something that can happen. So I'd like to say that each of us can contribute to this Parliament's doing what in most of its working time, that means as a decent Parliament, the most important part of over 90% of the time is that. There are different words, sometimes harsh, sometimes less rough, sometimes ugly, and sometimes less ugly but most of all our Parliament belongs to a more polite group of Parliaments for the experiences and knowledge we have. And you should do everything that when you see where things are going, and you've seen about ten hours where things are going, you should've done it to avoid this situation. I'm not saying someone in particular is responsible for that. Maybe I'm responsible too, maybe I should have asked for a word earlier and said something, but here I am saying it now and it would have been really good if this scene hadn't happened again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29963	Thank you. The next one will be taken by the Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29964	Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. They've taken Stepan Radic out of this assembly ten times. It is known who he was taking out, how the presidents of the Parliament were making such decisions. We also know today whose side of history stands. History certainly does not stand in the way of those who have made such decisions. We here today have a situation that MPs are not allowed to speak. And we have the right to base what we've heard in the past few days that the government's task, beware, will be to take away voters and mandates from the ruling government. And why is that? Because there must be a blind implementation of the EU policy, which, let's say quite frankly, has taken the liberty of Croatian citizens, and this is a classic example. The moment we criticised the EU and all these alleged integrations, we criticised Croatia's subordination to other people's boots. Croatia is not a free country because we have been deprived of our right to our culture. We are forced by a force as strong as culture. We're no longer a free body or a free individual, but we're just a wheel in one machine that we'll never drive. And this is actually a struggle for the survival of the Croatian people. This story about INA MOL deserves to be told, spoken of. When should MPs talk about it if not now? And why is it so much adolescence of this Rules of Procedure that literally every MP has to be interrupted several times as he speaks? Freedom of speech is a constitutional category, here you have the Constitution all ahead of you, tolerance too. We're bringing the Ethics Code. What's the need? That in this way we silence each other or those who say things that the elite like, but who are very interested in Croatian people. The Croatian people want to hear what the MPs think about this case. For this reason, I believe that what happened today should never happen again to the chair of any session, whether it is a plenary session or a committee session, if it is not able to lead the session in a quality way to leave it to its vice president. Every chairman has a replacement, he doesn't have to expose himself to situations he's not up to. If it can't be otherwise, it can interrupt the session and bring out guards who are guilty and who aren't guilty, I think we should conclude that this was the first and last time. I end my exposure in that faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29965	Thank you very much. And the last one on behalf of the Most is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29966	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, most of it means what I was going to say was brought out by those who spoke before me. The fact is that many of us today didn't exactly stick to the subject, after we were warned, I'm here personally while I was speaking I was warned, I immediately returned to the topic. So we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, we have to listen to the chairman even though we may not like his style, it doesn't suit us, we'd like to say everything we want to say, and I certainly think that my colleague Pernar is aware that it wasn't right when he got up and yelled like that, but he might also be the chairman when he was already, so he wasn't consistent, so Mr. Maras pulled that notice or the ban on speech then maybe he should have been called in when he was called a break that might have calmed his passion, and maybe he should have given up and Mr. Pernar kicked himself out of the assembly and it wouldn't have happened this circus that we witnessed. So some conclusion that we should respect what the chairman is saying is that we should stick to the subject. Mr. Sincic spoke of whistles during his debate on the removal of immunity, as I did this morning to call a break, I was talking about telecommunications, he could talk about this subject, and none of this would have happened. We have mechanisms, we have instruments that we can warn of certain things, we have the possibility of press conferences so that we can open up certain topics and it would be good if we were to stick to it as agents. I am personally very temperamental, I know often and exaggerated but always means to remind the chairman that I am trying to get back on the subject and not get a chance to get some kind of warning or to have the chairman give me a measure to get me kicked out of the assembly. So mostly here I think that situations like this can be avoided and I was a personal teacher at school and what most students look at consistency, means consistency as you do to one student that you have to be to everyone. Well, maybe this situation wouldn't have occurred if Mr. Maras had already been returned to the right of speech that perhaps in this apartment it had given up that Mr. Pernar had been kicked out of the assembly. And in the end, he was the most profitable, and he actually wanted this. He became a media star and many people watched a live circus that happened here in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29967	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the vote on the points discussed so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29969	We continue to discuss the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next representative who appeared on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives is Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29970	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs! After that completely unnecessary escalation and exaggeration in my opinion, Mr. Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29971	Excuse me, Mr. Sincic, just a moment, please. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to respect a colleague of Sincic's at the moment he exhibits. If you'd like to leave the assembly, I'd like you to do it quietly. Representative Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29972	Thank you. We are discussing here that Mr Tomislav Karamarko is the former president of the Croatian Democratic Community the first vice-president of the government, before I would remind him in 2004, in 2006, the director of the POA, then from 2006 to 2008, the director of SOA, and then he was Minister of Interior during Mr Sanader and during the Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. So, there's a very long long internship in the system, he had a lot of resources at his disposal, all Croatian spies worked for four years, I guess a billion kuna was spent on SOA and POA's work during that period cumulatively, and Tomislav Karamarko has all that information at his disposal. As interior minister, he could stop investigations, he could launch investigations, he could direct the work of the MUP, he could frame the MUP. I'd like to compare it to a very important person in the history of the United States, and this is J. Edgar Hoover, who was the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Founder, in fact, today's famous FBI, was headed for 48 years. It's history now, he's gone, and now we can judge him, and we know what it was and how it was done. He did pursue crime, however, used extensive information he collected over 50 years to blackmail senators, presidents, congressmen and other officials, it was a double sword. And Mr. Tomislav Karamarko was in the position of a two-story sword. He could and should have used the information and power he had to prosecute crime. However, what I am about to read shows that there are indications that he used the other side more, that he misused the information and the power he had. Therefore, a private slander suit says this is how Karamarko sued because in the summer of the pre-election campaign for the Croatian Parliament of Bridges, they said Karamarko had left HDZ for the post of HDZ president over criminal acts. It's a question of whether it was these shops or not. Of course, the Mandate-Immunity Commission will advise to dismiss itself because it is a private lawsuit, we know, it is a process and procedure. However, I will use this debate to indicate whether there was a foundation or no foundation, whether there were indications or not that Mr. Karamarko was therefore involved in criminal activities, so before I was interrupted, I went to indicate in order what the Croatian whistles were saying, I was talking about some processes. Let's start with Sonja Vlahek Croatian Post Office's former Head of Corporate Communications for years warned of illegalities in the work of the Croatian Post Office, she warned of the Sobol case among others, and her claim was like this as one of the great sources "Crime officers are the most ranked members of the criminal organisation that robbed and still robbed Croatia and the Croatian people, which I have investigated, disclosed, reported and testified against them in recent decades – she wrote... that she was naive enough to trust the institutions of the system. [[You don't understand.]] And whoever's doing a little activism, they're going to come across similar and numerous whistles that have done their civic duty like our civic duty here to talk about it. Our country's colleagues and colleagues have a lot of problems with corruption. We're still a young democracy and I don't know how long it's gonna take to finally get rid of all these tails. Isn't it a shame that one prime minister, former Prime Minister Sanader, is located where he is? Well, isn't that a billion times more embarrassing objectively than anything anyone in this assembly is saying? So how does the world look at us? And what's even more tragic is that we're not able as a state to process him successfully. I guess ten years will take that trial. Will anything ever be taken from him? Now Minister Calmeta will have to defend himself in court. They say the whistle-sniffing witnesses are probably also connected to Karamark what I'm talking about here today. Let's look at the former ministers from these governments and I won't be biased, I won't just attack this side. I'm interested in the arrests at HEP. Mrs. Vlahek spoke about the connection with Mr. Milanovic's family also the former prime minister. All of this needs to be investigated and sanctioned to be healthy society. Mrs. Vlahek testified against Mr. Karamark, was physically attacked. Furthermore, Domagoj Margetic, an investigative journalist, was also attacked several times by what he wrote about it. He was sued by Karamarko for slander. With Mrs. Vlahek's testimony, Karamarko lost that slander suit. Furthermore, I would like to dedicate myself to one more of the witnesses, and this is Mr. Mijat Stanic, president of the Independent Road Union. And his allegations that he had worked hard with his colleagues and obtained a lot of information from the institutions of the state that – he is probably the most responsible that there was even a interception of Mr. Calmeta 10 years after the work was done, even more. So, at the time the police conducted investigations into the HAC malfeasances, Sobol received millions of jobs from HAC and other companies in Kalmet's portfolio. I can responsibly say that to be directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29973	Representative Sincic, I apologize. Please, I understand the link, but I'd like to ask you about these topics to request a break. I don't want to interrupt. I'd like to pray and stick to the subject. We understand the point, but I would only ask that you point your exposure to the topic at present if it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29974	So, I was talking in context to make the public understand what this is about. Then, we have a lot of union testimony, so it says in detail how the tenders were arranged that one firm had given 100, another 102, that the same mistakes were repeated, that the amounts were exactly 2% higher, the same tables, the same fonts – one school example of fraud of money withdrawal. An interesting detail that could not be skipped, the USKOK said it was not the USKOK problem, but the police, and it brought them a police report saying to suspend the procedure because there are no elements of the crime. The minister is usually Tomislav Karamarko. Furthermore, another quote -- I have already spoken publicly of Karamarko as interior minister using his position to prevent certain investigations, but no one paid attention. You also have the case of Božidar Kalmeta, who is a synonym for organised crime in Croatia and who survived only thanks to the protection of Mr Karamark because Sobol is the most money, so because Sobol got the most money out of the ministry at which Kalmeta was headed. The trial is going to happen and it has to happen. It was supposed to be 10 years ago. Why is our system paralyzed? Just because we gave “the fox to guard the henhouse. ” Mr. Karamarko, this is just one piece of the tip of the iceberg of what happened to him and around him. So he was the minister, he could frame, direct investigations. He could have said this information we'll use to prosecute a political opponent, and this information will not be used and that's where I'll stop the investigation. And witnesses say it happened. What am I saying? I want to conclude that there are strong indications that there are trials, that Mr. Karamarko was Minister in the Government of Ivo Sanader with others, some of them living ministers and living politicians. Here's even our president was in that government for a while. At the same time, besides staffing, we have a strong deficit of funds for “using the handcuffs to guard the hens. ” So I listed before I was interrupted, the funds that were given to the government. We see a sharp jump from 2016 to 2017 from 50%. 50% more funds go to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not sure exactly what she needs it for. I don't think she needs them. The last government didn't spend that much. At the same time, the DORH stagnates us at 40, 50, 60 million kuna according to the state budget report. And who was reading a report that wasn't popular in this House? When it's on the agenda, it just sinks down and down and down. He puts himself in some small hours when there's some kind of celebration, something, to move his focus on it. I therefore call on the institutions and I call on the Bureau of Parliament to face our problems to put the debate at a time when it is visible and when it will encourage real debate. In this report of the DORH for funds, it is cried out that someone understands this institution even though I do not have a close opinion on Mr Cvitan or on Mr Bajic before him, but let us give people the means to process crime and in real time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29975	Representative Sincic, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29976	Here's to slowly coming to an end. As for Mr. Karamark, it was held under the auspices of the European Commission delegation of a workshop on corruption, we have one paper by journalist Drazen Rajkovic, where he states that three times more damage was done during Sanader's rule than in the war, then there are numerous affairs, the farthest road construction, INA MOL 7.3 billion, shipbuilding 5.4, which you will, Sunčani Hvar 574 million, Croatia post office 500 million that I have now talked about, Plinacro 485 million, Podravka 404 million, Croatian postal bank 328 million kuna, etc., the list is probably endless. Only 20 major cases are listed here. So what now? All of this before he entered the Government of the Independent Lists Bridge was supposed to know, he either knew it or should have known it was personal and would show that I believe it and the time when we set up the institutions that Mr. Karamarko and Mr. Sanader and the whole government and the furniture participated in illegal actions and I can agree that Karamarko had left HDZ for the position of HDZ president because of the criminal activities but it certainly did not apportion the Bridge, Most should have known it or knew it, anyway he went to that criminal story which I was very sorry about. And Mr. Plenkovic, what's he doing? He said here the other day that he was going against me and my colleagues to direct the institutions. Mr. Plenkovic, direct the institutions against this crime which, here I am only calling you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29977	Mr. Sincic, I'm giving you a warning right now, please don't. I also ask all the other parliamentary representatives, take advantage of all the opportunities that the Croatian Parliament gives you, talk about the topics that bother you and which you consider to affect all citizens of the Republic of Croatia but I only want to discuss this topic in a very civilized, decent, measured manner. Please, and all the other parliamentary representatives, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29978	Thank you, Chairman. I think it's important to warn the reasons why there's been a lawsuit in the first place and against you personally. And I've cited double standards that hurt the most Croatian citizens, and I've listed a petty criminal, Mr. Bowl, who was convicted of a small 1.2 million. It should be, absolutely, but what about these great things. I call on this country to get rid of double standards and act the way normal countries do, it's a deficit of democracy. What message do we send to young people of my generation? Some citizens tell me, Son, you're a good young man, you're smart, you speak well, etc. And some say Sincic you're the biggest fool in this country because you're going to spend your youth on the ones up there or you're going to compete with some who should have been there a long time ago. My colleagues and colleagues, Croatia is not just time from the 1990s or today, Croatia is also the future. So who will remain in this land if we treat justice this way, or injustice. Now, I would just like to call once again on the Prime Minister to direct the resources, which I have also called in an inaugural speech to the right things, and those who believe that the living wall is the main problem in this country, and not what I have stated has neither honor nor morality nor courage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29979	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Žagar reported first to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29980	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Sincic, you and I, colleagues and colleagues here have great responsibility for building a better tomorrow. You went a little bit wider in your debate. I think I'm talking here about Mr. Karamark's private lawsuit against Mr. Bull and Mr. Petrov, but here's the debate we couldn't escape from political connotations. My father was a political prisoner. One of the charges was just that, one man was offended, told him he was a thief and at the time it wasn't supposed to be because he had a certain political position. It wasn't a private lawsuit at the time, it was the D.A.'s office who took the stage. My father ended up in prison, several times he knew me on several occasions to tell me this one would sell the state for a glass of wine. I didn't understand it at the time, but today it's a little clearer for me. However, this debate and all this that is now the consequence of all this is happening is also the motive for why I volunteered for the replica. You have repeatedly mentioned the Croatian institutions, the largest institutions of this country. We can talk about former Prime Minister Sanader, Karamark, but the fact is the Croatian government and this is also called MOL, the Croatian government has concluded a contract. The INA administration did not contradict one word when it was deprived of its rights through the executive directors. The Croatian Assembly could not agree on any point in which they wanted to prove that the contract was harmful. And finally, the Croatian judiciary with the final decision of the Constitutional Court led us into this situation. So, the biggest institutions, not individuals, that's what hurts the most. The largest institutions have brought us into this situation, and in the end, they have put us in a position that fellow High President Petrov, colleague Bulj, is defending him from the indictment of his former counterpart because of what has not been done for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29981	Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29982	Thank you, Chairman. Here's a colleague you touched in his replica of INA as one of the crucial points why there was at all a breakdown of Most and HDZ in the previous assembly of the Parliament, but I must say that, and at the protest before the INA, I think it was the sixth month of last year, I cited exactly the criminal reports by whistlers in the INA, exactly the criminal charges by number, the service number, whatever it took that wasn't processed because our judiciary didn't do its job in the first place, so we suffer the consequences abroad. Our judiciary is not able to determine the responsibility of Sanader, our judiciary is not able to investigate a criminal application stating that Hungarians work in INA without work permits or while they should have been well within the European Union, and now without a labour contract. That's where we could have caught them. MOL has a long corrupt past, see what they did in Syria and how they ended up there. Look what's going on at the Sisak Refinery. He's deliberately showing, and I was saying a few years ago that he's doing it, he's deliberately showing the refinery as a loser even though she's not. And it's a good thing Nacional released the exact data a few weeks ago. The refinery in Sisak is not a loser and MOL pulls us by the nose, lies to us and shows him as a loser that he can shut him down and wants to turn our INA into a large gas station where from Hungary and Slovakia from their refineries will be driven to a warehouse in Sisak and Rijeka and where their fuel will then be sold at gas stations where people will work for minimum wage. And I don't think it's allowed, and all because the judiciary doesn't do its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29983	Thank you. Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29984	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Sincic, representatives Bulj and Petrov therefore told former Deputy Prime Minister and HDZ that he spoke false information to the public and I have no doubt that he did so. But they also gave the same two MPs false information to the public. I will now quote very briefly – "The claim that the arbitration before the United Nations Commission for International Trade Law must be withdrawn because of the danger of losing the dispute against MOL is against the protection of the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. Giving up arbitration, therefore, means giving up on Croatia. According to all, arbitration will be favourable for Croatia so that there is no fear." So this is where someone misinformed the public. That's what you said, Mr. Bull in May 2016. So I don't know, Representative Sincic, is it known to you on the basis of which information someone claimed that arbitration would be favourable for Croatia and that Croatian citizens do not have to feel any concern about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29985	Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29986	Thank you, pal Bunjac. I don't know who that counselor was. I know what I know from the media. However, who advises people whom the Croatian people trust to lead? Are these people whose other interests are at heart or is that all they've told the public is a farce to buy a certain amount of time? It would also be interesting to examine why the Hungarian ambassador visited the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia all of it, so a very short time before the verdict of Ivo Sanader was brought down. That would also be interesting to examine. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29987	Thank you. And MP Miro Bulj answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29988	Comrade Sincic, you said that many people, especially the younger population, are asking why you're here, what you're doing here. Well, you are as free as we all are here in this House, and also with the free will of the voters of the Croatian people. I would also refer to this section, which you have now replicated briefly everything I have done in the past term, I would do again in the protection of national interests. And if it weren't for that, there weren't 12 people who didn't want to fool the government today, and your colleague, Bunjac, wouldn't be in this House every day teaching us parliamentary deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29989	Thank you. The HDZ advocates' club also reported for discussion. Their representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29990	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which is denied the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against the representative or the president of the Croatian Parliament of Mr Petrov, colleagues of Bulj and colleagues of Pupovac. We'll do it for a few reasons. But the first reason is that so far, the practice of the Croatian Parliament has been to deny the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against parliamentary deputies who have immunity under the Constitution. I have to say on behalf of the club, and in my own person, that practice was different than it has been lately. And we must therefore consider whether, with this practice, we will continue to deny, after a private lawsuit, the right to conduct proceedings against a single representative. Why? Because so far, we have had the practice of denying the conduct of the proceedings in previous councils, but we have not entered the plenary session into the metrics, but we have found that we will not allow proceedings against the parliamentary representative to be conducted. And we have hardly ever opened a debate about the metrics that triggers proceedings against a parliamentary representative. In this way, when we in the Assembly are opening a debate, and if the prosecutor is a former politician or another person known in the media space, then the debate is generally used here, so that the same person to whom the prosecutor is and whom we deny the right to come up with all the satisfaction in the court if he is innocent or that the court is wrong, but rather the same person who asks for satisfaction in the court once again to be mocked and satonized and once again belittled, and then once again, and perhaps all that is expensive, is not true and that this person may be satisfied after four years if the representative who slandered him in one term or after two mandates, after who lives who lives who lives is dead. This family, and the person to whom we deny the right to conduct the procedure will remain in the permanent belief that this person is indeed when a highly positioned politician hesitates to be guilty. And we need to take care of it independently, today, about Mr. Tomislav Karamark or the other person, yesterday, the third, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the fourth person. So, not only do we enjoy the fact that we have immunity, but we are still allowing ourselves to defend ourselves in front of all the media in front of the same person who is not able to defend ourselves because he is not a parliamentary representative because he has no right to do so. And once again, the entire Croatian public on the open stage must listen to slanders and insults and at the same time we will not allow you to conduct the procedure. And that's why I've been having this debate all morning and the debates that were previously unacceptable to me. Let's at least be as Parliamentarians with dignity when we're already denying someone the right to prove their innocence, but let's at least be a little bit correct and let's not open a debate about a person who can't defend himself here. On the other hand, it is true that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in the case of Mr Karamark found that he was in conflict of interest, it is true that the Administrative Court rejected his appeal, all of it stands. But you know how many civil and local officials have found conflict of interest, including here in the Croatian Parliament. It's a big number. But being in a conflict of interest and being a criminal is a huge difference and we have no right to interpret the conflict of interest in a criminal activity, that's what we have to take care of. As far as I'm concerned, I must say that I would never stop and expect parliamentary immunity to give me protection in court, I personally would never ask for it because I choose very carefully words when I say any political opponent or any other person's convictions, grades and God forbid I take care of the principle of imputability. Therefore, we will in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community in accordance with current practice, and we will not deny the right to conduct the proceedings, but if the practice continues in the Assembly to allow the person asking for it to come to an end all satisfaction in the court and we will once again show the same person here in the Assembly that has no opportunity to say a single word in our defence, we will consider in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community whether we will continue with such practice. We think it's at least correct to the people we deny the right to conduct a procedure to prove their innocence. We do not enter into the metrics, and we must not, as advocates, take for granted the right to be part of the Croatian judiciary. We are a legislative representative body, but certainly every word we say here in this Assembly is heard in the Croatian public space, in Croatian society. And when a parliamentary representative makes his assessment, a large number of Croatian citizens believe it is absolutely true, a large number. And while someone later in court in four, eight, in twelve years prove that he was wrong, more stories are closed and it's hard for those people who passed such a public lynch both in the Assembly and outside the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29991	Thank you. Representative Kazimir Varda first responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29992	Mr. President of the Parliament! Reverend Bačić, I've been waiting for your debate all along. I have experienced today, I need to apologize to the entire Croatian public for the way the Parliament works. I've already warned in the replica once that we've led to the absurdity of this practice of not taking off immunity in private lawsuits. I will certainly vote in favour of the Committee's proposal until this practice is changed because it has not been responsible for it, it has been applying a practice that has been for years. But on this occasion, I point out that we've come to an too wide understanding of the Institute of Immunities. The immunity under the Constitution shall be protected by the representative of Article 76 for an opinion or vote in the Assembly. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution once again states that everyone is guaranteed the respect and legal protection of his personal, family life, dignity, respect, and honor. What rights do we as Parliamentarians have more than the one who chose us in this House? If we question his honor and reputation personal or honor and the reputation of his family. We are protected as face bears if our mandate lasts two, three, four or five times. There's no one left to sue and his family's wearing that seal. I think it's time for the Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Human Rights to consider the situation today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29993	Agent Varda, thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29994	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29995	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29996	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you absolutely that a parliamentary representative should take care of every spoken word not only because of his own responsibility, but because of the responsibility and authority of the Croatian Parliament. I am not to make it impossible for us to prevent representatives in their most important business, which is to say, to criticise, to question all phenomena in Croatian society. But there must be a limit to which a parliamentary representative can take care of this article of the Constitution in which you have stated that there is a need to take care of the dignity of every Croatian citizen. The second is the situation, I strongly argue that we here in our parliamentary debate can go beyond that, because the colleague you referred to at times is a difficult word or a difficult word however you like, there is an opportunity to answer and we need to be aware of it and we accept it. But I'm saying, there's got to be a measure. But if we can move forward with a person who can't answer us, we don't know how much damage we're doing to that person, her family, so we have to take care of it. And so, on behalf of the Club, I said that we must, or when the people who are suing are not MPs here, refuse if we want to, if that's what we want, if it's a practice to refuse and prevent the conduct of the proceedings but then a minimum of what we have to do doesn't lead to a debate on the metrics. And we're slowly having a discussion about the metrics, getting into the grades of the same person who doesn't have a chance to say a single word in his defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29997	Time. Thank you. Representative Milorad Batinic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29998	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleague Bačić, I can accept your thinking in part in the debate. I believe, perhaps, that kind of statement to us as parliamentary representatives would not happen here or outside, and we would also respect the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because we have exactly what and how we should express ourselves, whether the ethical code where practical qualifications like someone is a criminal, someone the national traitor should be valorized not only with a warning, perhaps someone different for us parliamentary representatives. That's where I agree. However, whether it may be the background of a whole story that should be much more detailed on this subject, although I am not a supporter, I have always been, the practice has been to support the Committee's position, and I think we should nevertheless have a certain immunity as spoken. However, it is a question of the qualification of spoken words. These are heavy charges, heavy charges from our two colleagues versus our former third colleague. Did it happen to the INA, did it do anything else? Is that why INA is a national interest, is that why you don't open up and expand and not go on taking off your immunity? Now, that's what I'd like the board to discuss, and then pass on the position in the assembly. That's one thing. The other thing is either said or said in a broader context in a lack of understanding of interpartner relations, or something else. So we have a few questions that I hope we'll get an answer soon enough. However, you are still in the coalition today, so spare us both here and Croatian citizens from such discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u29999	Reply to the replica, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30000	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Batinić, I am pleased that at least one part of you agree with what I said. But we Parliamentarians have so many business opportunities, so many Rules of Procedures wide range of tools, the instruments provide that we can open a debate on any topic. We can establish an investigative commission. We can in any way through the procedure of the Croatian Parliament if we think and have a position in a particular situation, according to a particular criminal work, according to a specific project, we have the opportunity to implement the procedure. But that procedure then implies that the other side can be declared. Not that it can, but it has to. And then, as Parliamentarians, we open up the debate after we hear the other side, after we hear all the arguments from the other side, and then we get the grades. This way when the other side is gone, it's unacceptable to me. That's what I wanted to tell you. I am to continue practice the way we had, but this practice is no longer the same as it used to be. That was my message from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30001	Thank you. Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30002	Dear counterpart Bačić, I support your words with all my heart because my sentences and words were mostly like that when I defended my position, which is why I broke my parliamentary practice and raised my hand to our colleague, Pernar, when he personally insulted the name and last name of a man who had no opportunity to defend himself there. And we really should think carefully about why it serves parliamentary immunity. Today we witnessed a staged circus here in a assembly announced long before by the person who insulted me and this Parliament. We were recently witnesses when the Croatian anthem was played he stayed seated. When he asked for a minute of silence for the dead he stayed seated, today he came to Parliament with an apple. And people like that, even though they're MPs, they can speak, they can act politically.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30003	Representative Klaric, I'd really like to ask if you've raised your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30004	It's about Mr. Bacic's argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30005	I haven't heard, I'm sorry, but Agent Klaric, I really think that the last half hour we've been talking normally, we're having a normal discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30006	I'm only setting one example.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30007	I ask you to hold on to what MP Bačić was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30008	I can finish. So what I just said was I just wanted to explain that you said that we should think about situations where the search for private persons when their personality was injured can be allowed to remove parliamentary immunity. And here I will finally mention only one man whose name was spread across all the media, who had been on all the televisions, who for years opposed these names, whose family suffered from former Minister Roncevic, who was eventually legally released. Who ever thought of giving him some kind of apology or satisfaction for what he'd been through? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30009	Thank you. Before there's a reply to the replica, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're giving up? Representative Bačić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30010	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Klaric, you mentioned a colleague of Bulls in your replica. I'm not a single person, I'm not a single agent who's been asked to initiate the procedure specifically. There were no colleagues of the bush as I spoke on behalf of the club and I wanted to replicate to him through my exposure that before I knew my colleagues, I knew Mira Bulja, and I can confirm everything he said about Mira. And I know that he was just like I was a Croatian defender, and I know how and in what way he stood up to certain policies in Sinj, I know that I say this before you, but I am sure that Miro Bulj, as a Croatian defender, fought for the legal and orderly Croatia, fought precisely for the constitution that speaks of the principle of presummation of innocence and that I expect that after this, too, Bulj will still, in a certain way, when he evaluates other persons as much as he disagreed with them, however much as he had his personal attitude to refrain from such assessments before the bodies who were responsible for it. So here's what would be friendly, collegiately proposed to my colleague Bulju, and on it it's clear, each of us is a person to himself, he will continue to work and here in this House as he thinks is most appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30011	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30012	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, I can't agree with you in this part that in the future I think I can agree that you have the right to think but I don't think it's a good practice that in the future related to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30013	I would ask esteemed agents to hold their internal debate outside the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30014	It means that you may change the view of the debates and the statements of the MPs and that it would be good to change that in order for someone to be more protected in the future or not to be exposed to additional charges whether they are based, unfounded, etc. So, I'm the fourth term in the Parliament, I've said a lot here, I never got a lawsuit. So I'm assessing that I'm not exactly the kind of person who's afraid to say what they're thinking, and maybe sometimes in my sentences I'll be more direct than someone's used to, but I've never gotten a lawsuit, and I don't think there's any reason for you to do things right and on the other hand when an agent warns of any irregularities he can't think about a possible lawsuit. This would limit the work of representatives, or his, I would say the possibility of indicating irregularities. I can see somewhere that something that happened incorrectly, maybe not have proof specifically that in court I could prove it but my word against someone and in this way that you said I'd bet a lot of MPs had a brake in detecting irregularities and pointing at some things that were wrong but all the time this debate I didn't even go for that extra Karamark I don't know how to say it, but I pointed to another political dimension. So it wasn't an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30015	Representative Maras, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30016	All right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30017	Reply to the replica, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30018	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Maras, I did not say that we were defaming the parliamentary debate, but each of us is a representative who participates in this debate in his own way. I'm holding that MP who's willing to give a conviction to anyone that's then ready for any conjecture. Therefore, but in that case, if you say so, then let's end immunity because someone against me, my fifth term in the Croatian Parliament, after 25 years, is to conduct a procedure that I, in the first year of my parliamentary term, slandered someone, you know that justice is meaningless. Justice if it is not swift and effective makes no sense and brings no satisfaction. Since I'm going to slander someone in the first year and he's going to wait for my four, five or six terms to get the satisfaction, then it's better if we tell that man at first don't sue a parliamentary representative because you'll never get that satisfaction in court. That's the difference. I agree that the parliamentary representative can perform as he wills, but then let him bear the conjecture of every Croatian citizen. And this, everything can be said, everything can be shown, all affairs can be opened but we do not need to label it because you and I have sworn that we will respect the Croatian Constitution and the fundamental principle of the Croatian Constitution is the principle of presummation of innocence and I have been holding on to it since I first day in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30019	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30020	Thank you. President of the Croatian Parliament! Dear colleague Bačić, you have really moved me to think. Here's what I'm going to say. I'm going to say two things in favor of your thinking, and then one in favor is actually the opposite. So, Parliament is a political body I fully agree with you it's not good that the Parliament takes over the role of the court, so that we judge here, we make decisions about whether someone is guilty or even extends the indictment or even further insults the person who filed the motion. Perhaps in the future, and probably many European parliaments already have that practice, perhaps most of the things discussed here at the plenary session will be translated into the work of the committee where it should actually be, and perhaps it should be amended by the Rules of Procedure to make such matters known only by the parent body and to vote in the Assembly, that there is no debate and that is one solution. Many of you colleagues and colleagues were members of municipal councils, city councils, county congregations. There's no immunity, there's a man there who has to be careful what he says he doesn't insult anyone because he can't hide behind it. And in that sense, when you're talking about the immunity of parliamentary deputies, then I'm really wondering if the MP must have immunity when we're talking about him as a politician, and we see here that there's a lawsuit between people who are in politics, whether they're in politics or in politics. However, what is in favor of immunity? There are many interest groups in this society, many interests of power, many individuals who are very wealthy, rich and in this sense I would not like to lose their immunity because tomorrow I can say something in the debate against this stakeholders group and they can construct some sort of indictment and if there is no rule that if it didn't trigger the State's Attorney's Office, so far it's such a rule as I understand the State's Attorney's Attorney's Office when it starts the proceedings, when the private suit doesn't. If there is no such protection, then someone who is truly financially powerful and can destroy a man. Here, that's how I look at it more like this in layman's terms. Of course, there are always methods of protection but I think immunity has its purpose but of course I agree with you that everyone is responsible for what they say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30021	Reply to the replica, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30022	I agree with my colleague, Sagar, I absolutely agree with you. So immunity may exist but there is a measure in which we MPs must have our own hive when we exhibit here in this House. And I think that I've been quite clear here, so that our parliamentary representatives are speaking, exhibiting the only tool in our hands, and if we end up stopping in those performances, then practically this Parliament will be completely dead and that's where I agree with you. But I'm telling you that when there are cases like this, when someone in front of the Croatian judiciary wants to achieve all the satisfaction we, at least in my opinion, have no parliamentary representatives at that point in the agenda then discuss and practically assume the responsibility of the Croatian judiciary and already through a debate that is heard in the Croatian public practically accuse the person who is trying to defend himself in court. This is inadmissible to me, and there was such a practice in this House when the request for a private lawsuit was without debate, when the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission said that we proposed it almost always, not always, almost always, not quite 100%, but almost always we never discussed, we simply accepted such a decision. This is how we open up a series of new questions, stories, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30023	Thank you. Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30024	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, I fully support your debate and perhaps this should have been the first debate today, perhaps this day would have looked different than it was today because my apology to the Croatian citizens because of the situation, the episode we participated in because of the inadequacy of a parliamentary representative of the function that should be treated primarily by his behaviour but also by his education. What I wanted to say and add to your debate is that we are discussing here a report from a parliamentary body called the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We have committees with very different roles. This commission has a very narrow, very narrow authority, very narrow and never before has there been a debate on any subject in such a way as to do so in the term of office of this Government and this Parliament. We also have a National Council to fight corruption, and we are discussing his reports. But this way to discuss one body that has to determine immunity by removing the non-repair and beginning or ending the mandate or resting the mandate, it was never done in this way. That's really the first time. Why? Because individuals realized that in one person like we had on behalf of a club discussion this morning you could be both a prosecutor and a witness and a judge who judges. And it's very politically highly directed. And you can say everything in ten minutes, prove, judge, and maybe there's only one execution left. Well, I mean, we take off two immunitys, we don't take down a few of them, but there's still a lot of debates going on longer than any point, other points of the agenda. I think what you said we'll think about practice. I don't think anyone should be sure that HDZ isn't capable of it, but it will really go the wrong way, given that the Mandate-Immunity Commission really is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30025	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30026	I thank my colleague, Boric. I must say that I welcome President-in-Office's initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure and to adopt the Ethics Code. We have been involved as a club in the development of the Ethics Code and in the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. I think that one of the major amendments to the Rules of Procedure should be determined according to this debate on the request to remove the immunity of the private prosecutor when it comes to removing the immunity of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is a real opportunity for me to also show on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and on all other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament a number of reasons for how and how to act when it comes to removing immunity so that sometimes our fellow parliamentary representatives who are in a position to or are in a position to seek their immunity are not in an awkward situation. I think there are ways and ways to do that through an ethical code, and certainly through the Rules of Procedure, these things are defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30027	Thank you. The individual debate on this subject was attended by a representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30028	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's today's whole day of debate about removing two immunitys. And right at the beginning I must say that I do not agree with the views of those around this point who think it is only a question of whether and when the memo came, the request in the Croatian Parliament, whether the parliamentary representative has immunity or whether he needs it. So there are certain political connotations, there are circumstances, there are a lot of things that we as advocates can discuss, and it's not good that we restrict the parliamentary debate because today we have witnessed what this has led to. Of course, a scene that is not good but the fact is certain that a normal debate was allowed, if HDZ had not been repressed, or one of the presidents of his repression would never have happened in this situation. And the easiest thing to do is not just say it's wrong. It's the easiest thing to label a man who can speak, who can't speak, how to act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30029	I'd like to ask you, Agent Maras, stick to the subject. So you applied for individual participation in the debate on the subject of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, not on the subject of freedom of speech in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30030	That's true, but I only have to tell you the introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30031	/Intruder President: You can choose...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30032	What an argument it was because you weren't here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30033	President: You don't need it for that. I can track through other aids to the Parliament. You don't need to introduce me to that. Just continue with the theme./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30034	Okay. She would only ask at the beginning, so the debate can't also be an evaluation subjectively or anywhere in the Rules of Procedure if you can have a link to some other things and it's never the same. So I'm asking you now when I'm discussing that if I'm related to certain examples that you don't immediately take this away from the topic because it's only started to take away from the topic if you're not talking exactly, exactly about that paragraph, and that's how my colleague Boric realized that the memo came to take off his immunity and we're moving on. And this is really about a political couple of excellencies case, and that's why I want to say one more time about the practice so far. The HDZ is already that practice once as far as I know it has violated when it comes to the case of the former and present alike, but in the previous term of Agent Jovanovic when he removed his immunity, when he called HDZ a criminal organisation because of the situations that took place in 2008, 9 and 10, and that is why it is important that the Croatian public knows that HDZ has its own practice which has not always been the same as before. And I would like to say that in this situation we have the removal of immunity from two MPs who were sued by a former representative or vice president of the Croatian government for defamation of him, who at the same time participated in the government and worked together in a way that the Croatian public did not think he was. So, it was the government that's been here for a year claiming to fulfil its duties, to do excellent work, etc. Until at some point it all collapsed together. I would like what my colleague Bauk said that HDZ and Most do not burden us with such things or that if they have information or if they think that their partners are criminals or slanderers to explain to us at all why they can cooperate in this way and why it is good for Croatia. Why is it good for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to cooperate with the Bridge and HDZ in the way they cooperate and at the same time accuse each other of such difficult things? And I think that's one of the main reasons why this one and the last government didn't work, which is why the past government had a fiasco, and that's why there's going to be a lot of problems in the future of this government. And I'm not at all optimistic that this government is going to get far, too, because there is a certain and huge mistrust. This makes it impossible for me to make government work and make decisions for Mr Plenkovic. Because we saw today from Mr. Bačić's debate here that he's trying to protect Mr. Karamark and I can even understand it, he's still a respected HDZ member. He's an ex-president. 90,000 people voted for him five, six months ago. Things can't change overnight. So, Mr. Bacic has protected you if you understand well in your debate, Mr. Karamark, from these further attacks. On the other hand, Mr Petrovic is also a member of HDZ and is still likely to be on the contract with MOL and around the INA will have certain interests. And then the real question is, how is it possible to make such important decisions when there are so few trusts and so many broken relationships not since a year, five or fifteen years ago? We can talk about HDZ before, but no, it happened three, four months ago when the people sitting here, who are mostly in the government, were standing tight as a rock behind Mr. Karamark. And that's what Croatian citizens need to hear, it's a subject of a couple of excellencies. There's not a theme here to build an excess and get someone out of the assembly. The theme here is that people on this example that happened two months ago see that the Croatian government is not functioning and why we have problems like we have around the INA and around HEP. Don't be angry, Mr. President. Do you understand the political dimension? I see you've started to gesture again to tell me something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30035	No, I don't. On the contrary. You just say I'll write a review of how you've experienced this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30036	You're going to write a review?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30037	Of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30038	Scientific work, or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30039	If necessary. You just keep not wasting your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30040	Okay. I recommend you to have one series called "In Treatment", that's your profession, so look, it's a very interesting HBO, but it's mostly what I wanted to say here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30041	.../Intruder President:...go ahead./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30042	I wanted to say that Croatian citizens must be aware that this does not work because of the non-confidential coalition partners shown through the removal of immunity that we received today on the table. It is impossible to work together if you think that you are criminals or slanderers and on that side we will warn you further, I hope that this will not be a problem as far as the debate itself is concerned because a lot of people feel uncomfortable when they cry out to him, when he warns that this is not the right thing to talk about in the Parliament and in the end because of such things, the situation is escalating and what happened today happens. I call once again on everyone here to contribute not to make it impossible for people to speak in the Croatian Parliament. And as for removing immunity, I disagree with Mr. Bačić, so even though it may happen in practice that someone abuses it, it may be one, it may be five, it may be twenty people, but as long as you have one person in the Croatian Parliament who will use it in a way that is in the interest of the public, that protection must remain in me and I deeply believe that in the Croatian Parliament there is a large majority of MPs who will use this right to point out irregularities, help people to be more informed, to prevent things and to allow our society to be better. So, I will continue to advocate that people for a spoken word in the Croatian Parliament can, means that they remain immune, I will advocate that people can speak freely here and I will advocate that then they are automatically not labeling themselves as such or as such, that they are trying to be shown in public in the most negative way possible because people must also be aware in this House that each of us has his sympathisers and that when you tell someone that he didn't get up during the anthem because of that and that's why he made it so that you invite your sympathisers not to be incorrect but that they can be all kinds of people. So everyone in this House has the right to express their position in the way he thinks it is right and Croatian voters should judge or judge who anyone was, but in this way they should not put a label on him immediately and make him a target for potential criticism objective or subjective. And finally here's to say that my position here is to remain immune because I support Mr. Petrov and Mr. Bulj deeply in their efforts to protect if they have knowledge and they certainly have more knowledge than I have from the opposition that certain criminal acts have taken place. The only thing I would not like in the future, and I am convinced that it will be so that the Croatian government does not function precisely because there is no trust. Then it's better not to sit with someone you don't trust to work successfully and efficiently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30043	Thank you, Agent Maras. Before we go to the replicas, I really like dr. Cal Lightman, look at the little episode about it, you have a lot to, each of us to learn. I would only say one thing that if I acquired a quality impression you actually criminal acts that are the center of this decision you associate with the failure of the current government. ... All right, that's all I'm interested in. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. The replicas are next. Agent Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30044	Your Honor! Comrade Maras, I think you should be the happiest with this accent that happened because in the debate this morning which was your argument is meant to be completely hollow, so what the president said at the same time was a man who, at the same time, warned about the conflict of interest is the current prime minister of this government who said at the HDZ Council that the HDZ party and this government is also the hostage of one man. Well, let me remind you that some ministers from your government spoke about your prime minister and president, former party president and accused him of certain criminal activities, that does not mean that the SDP is in conflict with the SDP, but that Linic is in conflict with Milanovic or that Mirela Holy is in conflict with Milanovic, there is no way you can link it. And on the other hand, when you're talking, and I showed it to you in the debate this morning, and somehow you've been killed, and you've been very welcome to see what happened, I've shown you that what you're saying is that this government is unstable is good for Croatia. It's good that we have an attitude, that the Bridge has a view of everything and that in some things it disagrees with the HDZ. We do not agree on everything with HDZ, we have our position and try to reach the best solutions for Croatia with our partners. I don't know how you can't possibly figure it out. You're used to having partners at local levels who give some chairs, they nod their heads, raise their hands the way you like it. We're not like that. We're not like that. We're not like that. We were not sued by HDZ because we and Karamark's HDZ refused to be in the past government. Do you know they offered to make anyone prime minister after they brought down the government? We didn't say yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30045	I would like to thank the representative of Nikola Grmoi. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30046	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoya. Here, this is exactly what I wanted to hear from you. So, I wanted to hear that you're justifying HDZ, that it's not that old HDZ anymore, that Plenkovic is the one who called Karamark, that's it. So, a HDZ partner like that needs to defend him, which justifies him, and that's a much more normal function. And now I'm going to tell you why I think that... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30047	/Intruder President: I would like to ask the representative of Nikola Grmoya to refrain from the incursions/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30048	It's the only way to speak, Mr. Grmoya, and then there's no problem. They know where you stand and where you stand, not pretending to be in half power, half opposition. So you de facto think HDZ is the right organization and that's okay for you. So that's what I wanted to hear from you. And since it's good for Croatia as you said there is a bridge as a partner, it tells you enough about the INA situation that partners don't agree, but the president of one partner comes out and says the position and then the government partner communicates something else all the time and eventually the president of that partner comes out with something completely different without agreeing. Well, now, if you think it's a good government function and that Croatia needs it, I don't think it's because you should be a partner who should listen to an older partner or a younger partner unnecessarily, but because I guess partners should first agree on something that's so crucial and crucial as INA, and then go out together with a common position. I'm telling you about this type of operation or the failure of the Croatian government. And I'm going to tell you the same thing I said earlier, I don't think it's good for Croatia, no matter what you pointed out in the past time of the HDZ's criminal action, since this obviously trust is not even now that it's good for the functioning of Croatia. And in this government. [[The President's incursion: time. Thank you.]] That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30049	The President's incursion: time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30050	...and in this government. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30051	Thank you. Representative Žarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30052	... I agree with my colleague Maras, I agree with a large part of the debate. [[You don't understand.]] I'm going to paraphrase it a little bit with a few graphic sentences. So the other day we had a debate on our board where I said you were criminally bad at your job. It's very difficult for you to get a criminal act of slander out of that statement of mine. It's a matter of my interpretation of you and your work of my observation and it's part of my right to speak. But for example, I could say that I have indications and information that during your work at the Ministry or anyone else's work certain crimes have been committed and that I call on state institutions to investigate them. Well, you see, in that case, it would already be a felony of slander and you could press a private suit against me. What exactly am I trying to say? I would like to say that the abolition of the practice so far would be omitted to that level that we now have, indeed, in many ways in which we can make it impossible for MPs to point out that they are questioning, focusing on certain problems and that, in some ways, within the limits of the maximum of their democratic powers, they are doing their job well. But here I think it's not a practice problem, it's people's problem, how we interpret it, how we interpret it, what level we use it to is our right, and where we go. I think in these cases we've overstepped our rights and our powers in some way, and to that extent we've entered into the essence and to the extent of the fact that we've actually accused an individual, a man, brought him to a pillar of shame, in a situation where he can't even defend himself at this point, that's one thing. And secondly, no less important in a situation where we don't even know if he's going to be prosecuted for anything that we've debated today, given that at this point, the state authorities haven't brought any criminal charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30053	/The incursion president: Thank you./
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30054	Let me have another sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30055	I'd like to pray, but it's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30056	It's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30057	/The President's intrusion: Please, but time is up. I'm sorry, I have to be equal to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30058	But it's important, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30059	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30060	Thank you very much. I have to tell you first that in fact, don't hesitate when you criticize me. I'm even glad you said that and people heard that. Although one part of the people told me why that Zdravko Maric attacked you, no, because you must be quite similar. So, I had to explain that it wasn't Zdravko Maric. You're welcome to continue. I'm glad when you question my work and I have no problem with it at all because everyone has the opportunity to defend themselves and say all the other things. So I don't even have a problem with you saying this, and I'm not going to sue you because I didn't get one in four years, I only had one anonymous application that was rejected at the beginning of the term. So I don't, I'm not one of those officials who has hundreds of applications at least I know. Here's the truth. I've never been contacted. So my work is subject to the public, it's subject to what I've been doing, how I've worked. Say what you want, I never, ever think of suing you. But what is here and from your debate from the replica clearly, you still have Mr. Bacic's protective attitude towards Mr. Karam Ark which is normal. That's your party colleague, who you believed in three, four months ago. It would be amazing for me if I believed in someone three months ago to take a completely different view now that he was a pain in the ass. So, then I would have just recognized myself in the words of Butts and shrubs if I had the wind blowing if I had been taught to squeeze. I would act the same way in that situation, but it's impossible to function unless the Bridge trusts you in that way. That's what I say all the time. So it's not normal for you to have protective...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30061	/The incursion president: Thank you./
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30062	Your attitude towards Karamark.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30063	/The incursion president: I apologize to Representative Maras for the time./
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30064	It's normal...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30065	I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30066	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30067	Thank you. Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30068	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you are in your replica. in their presentation, they said that you disagreed with a large part of the exposure on behalf of Club Bačić, and that it is important to speak freely in the assembly. I'll figure out my replica a little differently. It's going to be a little bit of a question and some claims, so you're going to tell me if that's okay and if you're going to sue me, say, so listen. So you were the secretary of crafts, of small entrepreneurship. You went to Las Vegas, you took with you your secretary and your married godmother who was your advisors at the ministry, you spent 100,000 kuna taxpayers on that 7-day trip, and when you came back and you were no longer a minister you also challenged to colleagues in the Bridge of some similar situation, to us in HDZ a lot of things, the president of her trip. And do you think that's true or false to be sued? Or we should settle it the way you handled it on the Mandate-Immunity Commission when you gave your colleagues to Bul one authority that only priests in Croatia have, which is to rid you of your sin of crime by handling it. Does this mean what I have now said and what is similar to many lawsuits that come to the Mandate-Immunity Commission something that you would sue as false, truth, or you would let yourself be relieved of your sins by fellow Bull's own handling? Here, just one little question so tell me, and is this wedding godfather really your best man and he was busy at the ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30069	I'd pray without tension. Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30070	Thank you very much. First, let me say that what you said is false, and secondly, so you don't get sued because as I would say, you have people who have a certain weight when they say something and those who don't. You belong to these others so he wouldn't sue you and probably wouldn't sue those who have weight because I just said things like that don't touch me at all. People have the right to ask and get answers. Since you're interested in my marital status, I'm in an out-of-marriage community, so I don't have a best man, that's all. So you have to a little bit of faith in the portals that HDZ pays to be a credible parliamentary representative. If they write something, it means the portals that Manikas keeps don't believe. Secondly, I came from the United States, unlike the President, with a contract worth 150 million kuna, which unfortunately has not yet begun to be realized and I am waiting for my colleague Dalic to come here with his debate to ask her to start the story at last. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm gonna say it again and I'm free to call you as much as you want, question how much you want, sue how much you don't want me to have any problems with it, and I can do everything in the way that I think most effectively defend myself, I don't need anyone to take me for protection or anything so that what I said to my colleagues, Bačić, and why I don't agree is that people can speak and speak freely, and whatever they say about me, I'm here in public speaking in front of everyone and I'll never press charges unless it's done, I've filed a complaint, but it was about intentional when people didn't ask me to deny it, but they've announced what was on their minds. And then I filed a lawsuit, but this way, when I have the chance to defend myself in that situation, I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30071	Thank you. For individual participation. ... I'm sorry, we didn't register. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30072	Comrade Maras, you said the following that a normal debate was allowed to take place in the unsavoury scenes would not occur. I ask you what is a normal debate for you, is it that everyone is speaking in this House what they will and whenever they want and beyond the subject and not being warned by the Chairman. For me, it's not like that, I think we all have to follow the rules prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and it applies to all of us equally. You were also in this individual debate more of a bit off topic than in this morning's part when you spoke in front of the club, although this time the president allowed you to speak until the end. And why were you out of the picture? Because you talked all the time about the relationship between the current Bridge and HDZ in this government. I don't know what this really has to do with the removal of immunity that was the subject, so here I think that you and your debate today have contributed to this situation and I believe that these situations will not come up in the future and that we will all contribute to it by applying the prescribed rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30073	The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30074	Dear colleagues, it may have something to do with the subject because it means the case is covered by colleagues from HDZ and Most. So, let's say that's already the first link that's related to the subject. It may matter what part of the coalition that runs this country and what citizens are very interested in seeing how it works. It may have something to do with what the potential mistrust of the partners also causes the work of the Croatian government, so it is all connected. And I absolutely advocate that here in Parliament you can speak of course not insulting others and being polite but you can talk and open topics that you think are important, which is the problem. Even in the matter, if she leans upon what is disputed. Well, it's neither the first nor the last time anyone's been discussing the way I've discussed it, and now you're accusing me of opening up and my debate has led to this situation, and look at these situations, it's going to be a lot of what I'm going to do to you. I'll discuss the way I think it's right, I'll talk about what people have chosen me for, what they want to hear, what they think should be fought for by those who chose me. I can't avoid it. How come it always bothers HDZ? How come no one from the opposition has ever rebelled against the fact that someone has extended the debate? Let's tell me how that's right here every time Mr. Rainer has an enormous number of incursions and trying to limit what the speaker wants to say. So there should not be a special analyst there now to see that it happens solely because of a party that is obviously not in the interest of discussing these topics in front of the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30075	Thank you. And I commend three seconds before the end. As for the debate of counterpart Maras himself, counterpart Maras, if I can repeat it, he believes that any action by any member of the previous government had to do with the functioning of this government so that the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided accordingly so that he believed that we were not away from the topic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30076	Mr. President, I would very much like to debate with you. So, you've hurt Article 232 about holding a session, so I would work very hard with you to debate if I had the opportunity. So now you're making your point that you wrote down nicely while I was saying something and I don't have a chance to answer it. If you want a debate like that, we'll make a deal and we'll sit down nice and have a cup of coffee and we'll debate. But please don't give the president any lessons from the position, please. I don't know if it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, I think it's that you don't give lessons and you don't make conclusions as if you're not the top authority here that's going to taste the debate and then present to us how he saw it. So, it's never been the presidents of the Parliament or those who run the session who haven't done it, so please don't do it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30077	Thank you. I just have two things to point out. The article you called for is the topic of the established agenda, so I don't know what article 232 has to do with it. And the other thing, I just explained, I went to pass on your message so it's not my note that's your message and I asked you in the previous question, my colleague wasn't clear why you were so far away from it and I just got close to her. And I asked you nicely at the end of your presentation whether you connected certain actions to the functioning of the current government, you said yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30078	But how am I supposed to explain to you now why I said it like that? So, you're here, look, we're all sitting here in the Assembly, there's 151, you're sitting in your position as one and you have a dominant position during the debate. Don't put yourself in that position to give us lessons, that's not right, that's what I'm telling you. If you want, I can explain it to you now. Are you giving me the opportunity to explain that to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30079	Let's do it for a while. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30080	So that's why I'm thinking. Thank you very much. Here's what led to me having to explain what I was going to say because you don't understand. So that's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30081	Mr. Maras, don't put words in my mouth. I asked you to explain briefly, I didn't say I didn't understand. I'd like you to explain for a moment, I've given you freedom. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30082	Mr. Petrov, what are you the President of the Croatian Parliament in a coalition with HDZ that you think is different from Mr. Bačić, Mr. Jandrokovic and all those sitting on behalf of HDZ in that government that Mr. Karamarko has committed criminal acts? They don't mean it. So, pull out the analogy of that, you don't believe in them, in their judgment, and that's why it's not an effective government, and that's why I think it's a burden for future work. Is that a problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30083	Thank you. Your interpretation, now just to sum up, I passed your interpretation on to my colleague and that's it. I don't see why I've shared my remarks, I've passed your remarks on to her. The next representative to report for individual participation in the debate is MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30084	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At first, I must point out that what I am about to say has nothing to do with most of the present colleagues sitting here today and most of the party members who may be able to identify themselves. Here is primarily a message to the political elites who have conducted various various privatisation robberies and have passed other laws today that rock the state. Today we are talking about a possible trial of two members of the Croatian Parliament, the first among equals and my little ones, and for this reason he would address himself in this way. And let it be spoken, and let it be judged, we are a democratic state. Well, we're not sacred cows, but before I express my final position on this issue, let me refer a few questions to the Croatian public. Should those who have robbed Croatia of conversion and privatisation continue to be tried today? Should we judge those who, through pre-primary settlements, have embarrassingly ironed their debts to tycoon associates? Should the public shake the story of how the elite one then Croatian democratic community began selling Croatian telecoms and the elite two then SDP completed it? Or imagine the coincidence that the elite two SDPs and their government started selling to the INA and the elite one HDZ ended it? Should those who have located, identified, arrested and prosecuted a well-known hero of the Homeland War? But also those who listen to this insidiously delight in thinking that it was forgotten that they had just opened a hunt for Gotovina, General Gotovina, and were embarrassingly offering the traitors a reward of 350,000 kuna? Of course, you should, but while applying against the pack of Croatian... They carefully guard the locked drawers of the institution in a hurry to judge two people who came from the province to the metropolis in the hope that they can make this country better, fairer and fairer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, let the institutions do their job but don't let anyone think that some lawsuits and lawsuits will put me out of my passion for fighting, for better, fairer and fairer Croatia, Croatia for which I started fighting at the age of 19, for which I fight here, and I won't stop for the last beat of my heart because there is a fire. The more you shut them down, the stronger they burn. In the end, I'd say I'm calling on all those who were supposed to protect national interests to press charges against me. I will be proud of that because what I do, I do everything in my conscience and in the protection of national interests. Because of those who robbed resources at the state, local level and for that reason I joined the Croatian politics, so I had already had many trials for both Auto Transport Sinj and many others, and for trying to put the mafia's dangerous waste past the river Cetina and numerous other trials. I'm not afraid to be tried because really when we see our judiciary as wonderful, our DORH is so brilliant, our Constitutional Court, which has been appointed here two-thirds of the world as great, there's no doubt they'll judge me quickly. But indeed, we have seen that in the arbitration process we have no evidence that anyone is convicted of all the robberies that have been done to our people for which the young are leaving. By judgment of me if you take my mandate, immunity I ask you to vote seriously once again to take my immunity and I truly trust the Croatian judiciary that they will do their job quickly and effectively and condemn me. I didn't say one word to Tomislav Karamark because everything I did and said again, no matter how the media transmitted, I don't care at all. I asked the Committee for Conflict of Interest to do its job and I'm sorry it wasn't done when INA was talking about "white nights", giving 25 plus 1 shares to MOL where they took over management rights. I'm sorry that later on, during Sanader, someone didn't raise their throats and protect their national interests. Also in the telecoms that we handed over to the Germans HDZ began then, the government with 35%, and when the driver Gotovina was called, she sold 16% of the shares during Racan's government, so he became TCOM German and owner. Deutsche com. These are the facts of truth. And I'm really inviting them to sue me because someone has to be convicted. So imagine what would be the advantage over Croatia at world arbitration if it convicted someone. Here, you have a man. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues to take my immunity. Here, please. So, I'll be brief with the conclusion. Everything I have done in the past term has led to elections, not my 12 colleagues, I am proud of them, I wanted to overrule them, and this has caused for the first time for the protection of the national interests of parliamentary elections. I'm proud of my 12 colleagues, and I'm proud to be with them at that historic moment because until then, they were all really on the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30085	Thank you, Agent Buljo. A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30086	Your Honor. Dear colleague Bulj, I had a debate this morning and I said that I understand your irony in which you are asking to be convicted in order for the absurd to be complete, but I said that I believe that MPs must have freedom of speech to warn about irregularities, as I did this morning in the case of telecommunications that you now mention to Deutsche Telekom and the way these rights have been handed over and what that Deutsche Telekom is doing. But now in one conversation here in the halls of parliament, I've learned that you're not the first man to seek his immunity. I've been going to court for a few months now, and I didn't even know that no matter how sad I was before I was a parliamentary representative's job that I had the right to use that parliamentary immunity. I've been sued by my colleague here by Parliament's Ranko Ostojić. And regardless of what I have the right to appeal to immunity, I, like you, will not use it because I am sad before the citizens gave me confidence even before I became a parliamentary representative. And I want to prove my innocence in court. But I do believe that as Parliamentarians, when citizens give us confidence that we must be protected by parliamentary immunity and that we have the right and that it gives us a certain freedom to warn us of irregularities as he said in his debate with fellow Maras. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30087	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30088	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoi, it is so much in the state of absurdity that perhaps the Republic of Croatia should add absurd. However, too many lives have fallen in this country and too many people are not among us who in the Homeland War have given their lives, and also through history for free and democratic Croatia. But it's sad and the fact is how much of it is in drawers. Well, here's to my Sinj, I personally filed criminal charges for the first robbery of privatisation, money for the Cetin Province's defence weapon in 91st year. And now you, such as lift up the empty towers, are now the rich, now they're the state's attorney's office, out-of-date, not out-of-date. It's a disaster, it's a disaster. So look who these empires are for the sake of blood, because of this blood of these people, and I really ask that you, all who are traitors to me, repeat another Croatian national interest while defending your country, they robbed and they continued today and they are protected in all segments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30089	/The Intruder President: Representative Bulj./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30090	I'm asking for my immunity. It's my right. Even at the International Court of Arbitration, we had no evidence of a verdict that was a power of power and the Constitutional Court brought down against the interests of the Croatians. So we have a man named by the Croatian government in Geneva who voted against Croatian interests. Well, someone has to be convicted. Well, maybe there's that possibility of all the robberies being sued. In this way, Croatia is the most corrupt justice and absurd country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30091	Thank you. Representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30092	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Bulj, there has been an all-time thesis that trust is one of the main drivers of economic development in Croatia and the functioning of the government, so I would ask you, for the last 25 years, we have had governments that have had each other's unspeakable trust. What do you think a coalition partner three years ago had so much trust in the Minister of Agriculture that he didn't react to his actions or actions would the state budget be so damaged as it now says he's damaged?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30094	I call on the minister to sue me for evicting 50,000 people from the Slavonia of our peasants, which is why now the empty Slavonia has gone to the pocket of the tycoon and not the small OPGs. But it wasn't a coalition partner that raised his voice, and the bridge would raise his voice. There were elections, extraordinary elections, at which point those who now call us in the coalition were literally lost the elections they were supposed to win because if before they were the worst government and when there was no government, we had the best results in Croatia, when there was no government. So much for the management system in Croatia. And I also ask that the minister who was a farm seems to me Mr. Jakovina to sue me and him for what is not in Slavonia... EAGF funds from the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30095	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30096	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I'm glad you're determined to proceed, etc. to speak openly what you think and what is in your heart, believing in what you say. The only thing I don't think I have is what to appeal to, but when we go back twenty years, we can't always call people who weren't much at the time or even know the same thing as you with situations like INA 2000 or 2001 or HT because that way someone might say that you were in HDZ when it was the privatisation of the 1990s, right? So that's what someone might say means that you were in the HDZ in the '90s and you didn't object against that criminal privatisation that was criminal, they cleaned up everything they could, people were driving on the road in most cases, very few of them came out stronger from privatisation than what got into it, so let's go from that side to the assumption that we here want to do well and we want to fight for some things and we don't want to go back 20 years in the past because you may not have been in a situation to react and I won't do it, and here's the first time I'm going to say it for the first time about the privatisation and you because I know that you had absolutely nothing to do with it, so keep talking and don't ask for you to take off your immunity because I think you have a sense that you have freedom of speech, no matter what you're not afraid of removing immunity. But what I've been saying all day has nothing to do with what you said or had to do with immunity but it has to do with a purely political logic. If you don't trust someone, you can work together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30097	Thank you. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30098	Mr. Maras, I'd like you to make a little arrangements. You're connecting irrevocably. Yeah, I started the HDZ, and I'm not ashamed of it, and I was an ordinary member, never on the list, just on my independent list in the fight of that moment, an ordinary member. When I saw what this was all about, I was never in any body, and I am proud of those times that I founded that party in democratic processes that happened, but the biggest robbery was also in war, privatisation and war profiting since 2000. Have you ever compared the debt of the Croatian state, when the most looting and selling were the most growing debt? And I invite you to sue me. I call upon those who voted in favour of Mr. Maras' prenuptial settlement, you voted in favour of a pre-nuptial settlement. Please sue me, all of you sue me. ... Because it's a bigger robbery than privatisation itself, that's where you helped your associates, that help your associates. [[You can't hear a hack from a bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30099	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30100	Please, Mr. President, finish. I beg the people who led this country and who managed this country to sue me, someone has to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30101	Agent Bulj, today we're not talking about your application to be sued but about removing immunity from you for a particular person's suit. I can allow certain freedoms for you to express the context of the whole story but I'd ask if that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30102	No, I don't. I'm asking him to sue me and vote me to take away my immunity. And yet again, I invite you from the SDP to sing a song called "White Nights, Black Ways". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30103	Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30104	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, you asked us to take off my immunity in a really very emotional performance, you said those very words. I won't vote in madness to remove your immunity. Why? You did not insult Mr. Karamark, neither you nor your colleague Petrov that you told him that he was a donkey or something like that, you insulted him for the functions you, a colleague of Petrov and him, so it is the highest functions in Croatian politics. And what I want to stress again, you mention privatisation, the big robbery that really happened. So we must not forget that all Croatian governments at the time until the 1990s, so after this government of Ivo Sanader, the Croatian government signed contracts with MOL, not Mr Ivo Sanader sued him. Croatia, this is where MOL is now being pulled out, the Croatian government, then the Croatian Parliament established an investigative commission. At the time, the HDZ opposition does not want to make a joint decision. Of course we don't even have arguments in Geneva then. After that, let me also mention this to the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund for the sale of shares to the same MOL. And in the end comes the Croatian judiciary which I am now wondering if he could, we always call the Croatian judiciary. Based on all that was on the table, could it have had a different effect on this arbitration procedure? And the Constitutional Court eventually brought down Mr. Sanader's verdict. We're coming to the beginning. So we're talking about institutions here, the functions we perform during our mandates, and in that time we need to be protected, we need to have immunity. After what happens, but while we're here, we have to have immunity and I will never vote against or for the removal of your immunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30105	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30106	I'd agree with you if it wasn't just Ivo Sanader or someone else that I'm not naming people right now. I didn't mention Tomislav Karamark once at all, because then I asked the Commission to do the same for both the prime minister and the first vice president and then the Prime Minister of God Petrov and all ministers. And that's what I'm looking for today. You're here. It's not just them. Of course, it's a system. So imagine how much of it is now in the drawers, that no one is responsible for the INA. No verdict That's it. She was a powerful woman, but the Constitutional Court collapsed. [[- A bogeyman.]] Well, someone has to be convicted in this country for all crime. Well, I'm calling you because it's not only those leaders, it's someone else who signed off on it, and they're going to press charges. Here's my case, against me or against one of us. Against us who came a year ago from the province here among the political elite, and it's not my first time I've been tried. I fought at a local level against a variety of malfeasances. I mentioned Auto Transport, the disposal of dangerous waste from the mafia where Minister Zmajlović – I am sorry he is not here – well aware of what they wanted, what they wanted. They don't have a problem poisoning Cetina. They are not interested in resources, they are interested in money and their interest, and they are not interested in the future of the Croatian people and the young man. And for that, please also, Mr. Sagar, feel free to vote for the removal of immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30107	Representative Tomislav Sauch, reporting for the replica,
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30108	Fellow Bull, no pasaran. We won't give you up and we'll never vote to take off your immunity. Your silence would be a sin for Croatian democracy, for this home. You are the only member of this house who is able to tell those who... go as they go, which is in this case HDZ, while being with them in such a nice coalition and holding their stand every Friday when votes are voted both humbly and humbly for them. And your i.e. Your words that caused Mr. Karamark's lawsuit are too bad they're in place and it's too bad they didn't make you think about your position and that you've changed that relationship with HDZ before. A party doesn't make one man. The client is a client. He chooses one or the other, so you have HDZs one zero, two zeros, three zeros, three, two, like operating systems on your cell. Now this is me thinking HDZ four zeros. And you've decided that this new version of the HDZ software is good enough for you, and that despite the fact that their former leader whom they so chose with such a great majority and for the first time, and the second time to sue you and that you do not respond otherwise than here now with this requirement that we remove your immunity. But we don't think of that. The only thing that doesn't go in my head is why you keep putting yourself in a position to be such a hypocrite and standing on their side every Friday. Get rid of it. Be yourself...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30109	/The incursion president: Thank you./
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30110	Faithful to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30111	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30112	I'm sorry the people in the election didn't recognize you, mostly the genius of Minister Maras and his work, and since you didn't get more mandates, I'm really sorry. And most of all, by comparing you to yourself who I have an independent list from the local board to the city of Sin. You, whom Milanovic has enthroned, must build a monument for Zoran Milanovic. I was not enthroned by anyone. I am grateful to the Bridge for taking me on their list, but Bozo Petrov did not enlist me in Sinj for neither the councilman nor my list. You're stuck, you know. You're like a kingdom. Social Democrats is something else. ... Social democracy is something else. [[You don't understand.]] It's not about what you say in World War II. Social democracy is life. I live in the country with people who don't have what they want and who live off their work, it's social democracy. And I beg of you, right here from you that you along with Mr. Grbin really likes to sing Thompson's songs I saw that he does it well, mainly Chavoglav to sing together let Mr. Petrovic Sinisa be your conductor, may also be Zoran Milanović, so sing Black Nights, white paths. So you know what was done when the hands were raised for a pre-determined settlement? You know what... So I'm asking you to vote against me. [[You don't understand.]] Here, please vote to remove the immunity. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30113	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Panenic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30114	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I will return a little to exactly what you are most proud of, which is that you defended the Croatian state, that you fought back then. But what did you fight for? Not only for the integrity of the Croatian state, but also for those who have fought for this country and also for those who have fought against this country, and we have abolized them and should be grateful to us and they live with us today. But who to you, did any of them sue you for calling someone that they tried to drive out the Croatian people, that they tried to build a great Serbian state and that you told them you were a Chetnik. Did anyone sue you? I didn't hear. And this, too, is why I'm saying this request that you're going to, if you've driven someone out of Croatia, not only did you put certain people where they belong, you've set up those who are fighting for Croatia and those who are fighting against Croatia. And is it even understandable to you that someone is going to you means from that position now to sue you. What are we supposed to do? Should we drive Mira Bulj out of Croatia? No, I don't. Miro Bulj fought 91st for this Croatia, fought for ideals, fought for all these years and those who do not need to be happy to live in this country and you must be here to fight for all those who have the courage to come out to say something publicly, for those who do not have the courage to find a model through you to say it and of course what we all have to look for a way for what we do not know how to present it to the Croatian public and for this reason you should be here and you should not be and should not fight in some courts where some justice is sought for which the best circumstances are spoken and the state we have in the state that this justice was happening and for this reason Miro Bulj is an advocate who is fighting for justice and for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30115	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30116	Yes, the Homeland War was done fairly by defenders to Croatia and handed over to the political elites to govern the Croatian state. Many have left their lives. And when it started with the arrest and the location of the i.e. ... The speaker doesn't understand./... the awards where our heroes are to court some European officials that we allow today even if Serbia judges us Croatian defenders to be jurisdiction, it has never happened in history, we have our own blood of our comrades, we have to fight but I am saddened that in Geneva there is no verdict for enemy alienation where both, one and the other governments participated, not the people here all the parliamentary representatives, that there is no judgment that the Constitutional Court... It makes me sad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And someone has to be convicted of all the robberies. Because of these people, because of the young people who are leaving. Well, in the last 15 years, the mountain is a demographic image, you can't hear a child's cry in our undeveloped regions, in your Slavonia, in my Dalmatian Zagora, in Lica, in the Gorski Kotar, so the mountain is a picture but during all the conquerors in the last 300 years. No people, no children. It is not what numerous Croatian defenders fought for and gave their lives. We must continue to fight and call on all people of good faith to join in politics and to fight for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30117	I don't think it's necessary to repeat more and more that you're really sticking to the subject because I'm going to need someone after this to explain what your presentation and specific questions have to do with this topic that we're discussing today. Grmoja's representative reported to the Bridge Club for the closing word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30118	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! This debate on removing the immunity of fellow Bulju and you president has tried to turn into a farce in which it was intended to show that what Mr. Karamark's suit means now is against you two that it has something to do with the functioning of this government so that at the end of the day, colleagues of Maras would conclude when a colleague of Bulj began to present the sins of the SDP around white nights, about telecommunications, about everything that happened to him to conclude that he would not go back into the past, not us who are sitting here and who we are not guilty of, do not connect us with that, and he connects the meaning of a man with this government. And then when I put it out, he says you're defending HDZ. No, I'm not defending anyone. We're in this government, we're going to see how it works, we have our views, you don't like it, you say it's instability for Croatia, and I'm telling you it might be good if there were such a thing as representatives of the Bridge of the 12. I haven't proven myself yet, I'm just here in Parliament, those 12 bridges that have refused to make any provision just to stay in that government with Karamark. They did not want to stay, and they showed that they were principled, that they had an attitude, that what they said was not only words but also works. Maybe it bothers you, maybe it bothers you because then it's a blow to your credibility because then you're asked to do the same thing behind what you're saying to stand and do. But you can't wash and tell me we're not to blame. You were sitting in the government with Mr. Jacobin. You didn't warn about the encouragement of what your colleague was talking about. No, I've never heard you say it's wrong, it's not good. So it might be good if this SDP government was unstable, that Gordana Marasa couldn't somehow get in and get in, but Gordan Maras nothing, he goes to Las Vegas, doesn't mention Jakovina and encourages.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30119	I'd like you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30120	Okay, I'll be back on the subject. So, my colleague Bulj, I respect your call to remove your immunity so that someone will answer, so that irony and absurdity will be complete but I repeat again, for the sake of freedom of speech of the parliamentary representatives so that I may warn of irregularities and my colleagues here too, I will not do so. I said this morning what you've done for Croatia, it's not true what my colleague Saucha says every Friday he watches you vote on the click, it's not true at all. For the key things this government has brought, you haven't voted for them. So, you didn't vote...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30121	/Intruder President: Please, no trespasses./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30122	You didn't vote for the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30123	I'd like to pray without any trespasses.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30124	Positive or negative fellow Maras, it shows that Miro Bulj is a man of attitude. And you weren't the man with the attitude when Mr. Jacobine's malfeasances took place. To you it was positive, negative, I don't know how, but the fact it was confirmed by colleague Pernar that Miro Bulj was not an actor. The man's not an actor. A man's attitude was liked, the lift it may have once made us nervous to all here in the Parliament, perhaps to some in the ruling majority, but he is so and no one can deny him or take it. No one can challenge him and take away his honesty, the fact that when everyone was silent and nodded with their heads that he was Sanader on a son's piano called a traitor to whom the end would come, which is why he was expelled from Sinjska Alka. The fact is, it's a man who's been tried several times for standing by the people. The fact is that Miro Bulj is a man who has shown his courage in the war, which is up to every house – he has not watched because someone of the SDP is calling you here – but he has not seen in his village who is the SDP's, who is the HDZ's. He knows well, and a colleague of Pupovac who never came to that village, knows that he has brought his neighbours of Serbian nationality to every house, but is not his own. It shows what kind of man Miro Bulj is and you can't take that away from him. You can take his immunity, but here we all agreed it wouldn't be good, but no one can take it from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30125	Gordan Maras, the representative, answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30126	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya said in his debate a whole series of sentences that can't connect to each other at all with logic. But here's what I'm about to say, which specifically moved me to report for the replica. So he first compared something from 17 years ago and about three months ago. I mean, even that superficial observer can't put it in the same rank because by that logic we could now refer to what happened in the Middle Ages as some correlation compared to what happened three years ago. So it's just not connected. I just said that neither you nor I have any information about what was going on back then. What happens now is we have information, and you and I. So, at this point, we can talk relevant, and what happened 20 years ago, we can't. And that's why I said we shouldn't go back to those times that we don't have information about, but we read in the paper. Now we have information and now we can discuss certain matters. The second thing, which is really curiosity should remain remembered, so Mr. Grumoja praised, says: "The key things brought by this government, Miro Bulj, voted against." So it's like praise, so what this government has brought as a budget, the tax reform Miro Bulj voted against, and it's good that he voted so. So, really, so the paradox of this government is amazing. I'd like people to hear that the Advocacy Club praises its MP who voted against the documents their coalition has brought. And it's like a positive, and that's at least more like it for us. You know what would have happened if there were more like it? There wouldn't be a lot of them. Because if you had all voted against these key documents, probably most would not have been established, there would be no government or budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30127	The President's incursion: Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30128	So let's concentrate a little when you say some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30129	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30130	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30131	Excuse me. Here, since counsel Gordan Maras allows.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30132	I think I made myself clear, so I looked back on my colleague Sauch who said that Miro Bulj voted as a majority every Friday. I didn't mean to characterize Mira Bulja's actions positive or negative. I was just talking about how no one can argue that a man has his own attitude. And when I talk about the Bridge, we won't support any criminal decision. I don't think it's a budget or tax reform, so we've also corrected it in one part, so I don't think it's a criminal thing like selling "White Night", like pre-fashion deals, like the Minister Jakovina's incentive means sharing tycoons, not small OPGs. That's the kind of thing I'm talking about, my colleague Maras, and none of these people here who sits with me are gonna back up. You supported it. I don't know how you don't understand it or how you can't understand it. But I've been explaining it to you since this morning, and you can't figure it out. Today, I can only explain to myself that you are a little confused today, and otherwise me and my colleague Bulj have a very high opinion of you and that we are constantly trying to convince the public that you are one of the best ministers in this country's history.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30133	Representative Tomislav Panenic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30134	Thank you very much. I think you just opened one key thing in your presentation, which is when Miro Bulj was a simple member of HDZ at the time, when he raised his voice when he stood up he shouldn't have been sued, but literally blew him up by it, kicked him out of the party, kicked him out of the Alkar society, show everyone an example that someone doesn't need to raise his voice that it doesn't pay off, that it does you harm. However, Miro Bulj, not only Miro Bulj, but also his colleague Bozo Petrov, when they saw that certain people were doing damage to Croatia, that they were doing damage to our arbitration team and that they had personal benefit, they raised their voice. Miro raised his voice in the Parliament, God raised his voice in the government. We also stood as the Bridge Ministers with the Deputy Prime Minister at the time, you are here as agents standing by Mira Bulja. So what now? Now you need to show again, no, you can't do that, you can't act like that, we'll meet you and show again that a little man no matter where he comes from has always got a stick over his head that will show him where his place is. And because of this, this procedure will go in that direction, it is not a pleasure that Mr. Karamarko may be a better man after that, but only to show by example that everyone is afraid of a voice raised because if they come to court they will be financially punished, they will suffer the consequences and what is worst will show and in fact you are wrong, and what kind of trial we have, in the end, and those who are normal, honest come out as thieves, come out as people who have lost more desire to fight for this Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30135	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30136	Your Honor! As for my colleague Bulj, I don't think he was expelled from HDZ when he said this about Sanader, in 2000, when Sanader was elected president, he broke up everything with HDZ and was expelled from the Alkar society, or banned from participation in Sinjska alca when Sanader said that in 2007 and that ban on participation in the stakes and today is valid. And then it was those who threw him out because he was fighting for a record set up by General Gotovina that the same people were waiting for General Gotovina. That's what's actually sad about everything. And what you said, I don't think this is Mr. Karamark's attempt to get some satisfaction, this is an attempt to make him somewhat politically rehabilitated, to basically say that he was right when he claimed that we should withdraw from arbitration and that Mr. Petrov was wrong. No statesman will ever claim if we're in some international arbitration that we're standing badly, and Mr. Petrov was absolutely right there. But what is sad and just now revealed and we didn't know that Croatia did not do everything it could because of Prime Minister Milanovic, that it did not initiate the dispute at the Trade Court because of the takeover of management rights, is my information that the Minister of Economy, whom I personally do not sympathise Minister Vrdoljak, has advocated, and that it has stalled under the influence of Siniša Petrovic, former Prime Minister Milanovic, and it is unfortunate that we have not done the arbitration work properly, that our witnesses did not come there to testify, that this situation also happened in order to destroy Sanader's verdict. Obviously, many in Croatia have responded that we do not get this arbitration and you are not just looking at HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30137	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy's representative. A representative of Tomislav Sauch called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30138	This time I was faster than Maras. I wanted to talk about something else, but I'm going to make a connection to what my colleague Grumo said about these insinuations about former Prime Minister Milanovic. Set up a commission. You are part of the ruling majority. These are very difficult qualifications. I'm for this man, i.e. I worked with him as one of my closest associates for a very long time. If someone was a Croatian patriot, if someone kept the interest of this country, if someone risked everything to work for this country it was Prime Minister Milanovic, and if you have this kind of innuendo you say your information about where that information came from, it became a "modus operandi" you very much like to throw yourself with some kind of information that you received from somewhere and from your ranks comes the Minister of the Interior, so... The documents came. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, if you insinuate that Milanovic had some kind of private interest or that he hitched or in any way damaged the Republic of Croatia in that procedure that we did everything we could to be in this country's best interest, then please a colleague or file a criminal complaint against Mr Milanovic, or I think it is even more effective to submit a proposal, we will support you, let's set up a parliamentary commission and we will investigate everything until the last detail. Now let me go back to this topic this little time I have left. As for this request from Mr. Bull to remove his immunity, I hope this is the last time we see a farce like this and a play in Parliament. So we have criteria when it comes to the DORH's application being lifted immunity, when it comes to private lawsuits no. And it's not about you, Mr. Grmoy, no matter how much you'd like to talk about some things, which is sad that you've supported that power, but it's about this House because if you'd accepted that criteria that you're standing up for now, then every representative would be under pressurised by the media to lift his own immunity. It's not your right, and we won't agree to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30139	Mr. Sauch's representative, thank you. The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30140	Mr. President! My responsibility is not certain because Croatia did not use all the instruments it had, I am responsible for it. You obviously don't follow the media and what's been written about it the last few days. These are not the claims that I make, so these are the claims made in the media that Croatia has not initiated a dispute at the Trade Court about management rights and I am asking you here and you answer why this is not done if Zoran Milanovic is such a great patriot and if you are such a great patriot. Can't, of course you can't listen to me, the truth hurts. But the truth hurts you, Mr. Sauch, but that's not my problem, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30141	I would ask the MPs before we go to the final word of the SDP Club and Gordan Maras to be aware that all communication within the Assembly starts from them that if you have a reference that this was today the farce farces have been made today by everyone then in the Assembly, take care of it. The communication always comes from you, the debate starts from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not think that this was a farce, Croatian citizens have seen who performs, what he thinks, which topics he wants to talk about, which bothers me that we can discuss freely, regardless of the attempts of some to do so and as much as Mr. Bulj, you haven't said anything but Mr. Bulj wants to take off his immunity we won't vote for it, we will vote for the old practice because as Mr. Bulj loves the song at one point it seemed to me that he could sing "Judge me, judge me" as much as he advocated removing immunity. However, we would like to retain the opportunity for MPs to deal with issues in this Assembly that they think are of the public interest and that they can do so for at least the duration of the term, absolutely during the term of the parliamentary term, without thinking about whether or not they will have to have problems with private prosecutors who will then seek certain satisfaction. And I think that practice has to continue that way. What I'm trying to say here means I don't support those who think that as soon as the debate doesn't take place the way they imagined the word farce, the play, the stage, this thing fits, because all of what we've said here today, as the President of the Parliament has said, is coming from us, and I think it's a good thing that the citizens have seen who's up for what standards they're up for, and who's running the country from today to tomorrow, not knowing what they're going to do, starting with his partner being incorrect and unfair, and that he's going to be blocking both his partner and making certain decisions, and how our government works. So, this topic today was an excellent opportunity to show how our government works or how our government doesn't work, how Prime Minister Plenkovic is lost yesterday and more where he is around INA, how he's going to buy INA, whether or not he's going to have the support of the Most because he simply has to listen to his coalition partner's views from television and, in parallel, someone is explaining to the protection of national interests that he's complicated the matter to the extreme limit and that he's simply working with someone he doesn't think is correct and in this case they've even fallen harder words that they're primarily former Deputy Prime Minister Karamarko criminals, or interesting lobbyes who wanted to do some things. On the other hand, the Croatian public must know that this will probably continue, that the problems we are entering are not simple, that it is not easy to implement all these things that we have announced, that the question is what will happen around both INA and HEP and about the Waste Management Plan and all other things that unfortunately HDZ and Most are not able to bring together. What I will point out once again is that I think it is particularly important, it is important that this Assembly does not prohibit saying MPs at no time, the rules should apply but cannot be interpreted autonomously, determine what is related and what is not related and how much it is related to the subject, and we will fight for it to the very end. And I hope that we will also have support for this in the public who will certainly not welcome the way the session took place today, which is what those who led the session are responsible for. I must point out that in the second part of the session you see the difference between what happened earlier in the afternoon and that I am convinced that the debate can be conducted correctly and that there are no incidents if those who do not want to do so themselves and I think that in this case the Croatian public is clear whether HDZ does not want such a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30143	Thank you. Before I just say for the replica, I must say as President of the Parliament that I will always fight for the Rules of Procedure and to hold plenary sessions in the way that it is intended for the Rules of Procedure, so that if the person who exposes or in any way uses his opportunities in this Assembly and strays from the subject will not have the opportunity to speak, there are other mechanisms as he can. So I would hate for them to get mixed up at one point in the freedom of speech from the mechanisms how to use it in the assembly because if we do it in any way and without the way the Rules of Procedure predicts it, then we will have no quality debate. Representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's what I need to hear from you today at the end of this debate. So, I often feel ashamed to feel in this House, and today I especially felt this shame because today, all of us sitting here today have earned or didn't earn the wrong expression, we will get 100 euros from Croatian citizens sitting here today, and today we have to watch someone who won't earn 100 kuna by digging canals. So, we have one rule here for 25 years in this House, so when it comes to a private lawsuit, there's no removing immunity as said by a colleague of Sach, when it's a request from the DORH or some state institution, then immunity is removed. We spent all day here today as masochists talking about some things. He mentioned that he was in court. So, all of you know or most of you know what I've been through for the last two years and I've been going through courts with some people I've never seen or heard from in my life. And this morning I didn't hear at the beginning of the assembly session because I was in court for another occasion, but I never, ever thought to ask the Parliament for immunity unless it belonged to me, if it doesn't belong to me. So, for the end. Comrade Miro, I support you in everything you say, you are a voice of reason sometimes a little more fire than it would be normal or necessary, but I can only end up telling you “welcome to the club. ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30145	Parliamentary representative Marija Jelkovac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, you're a little contradictory to yourself. Now, in the final word, you said it was for the rules to be respected, but you're not meant to be autonomously and each of us interprets the width and distance from the subject. That's exactly what you're doing. You think most of us who stick to the subject here turn out to be a little bit more stupid, and individuals who don't follow and constantly abuse and break the rules about it are a little smarter than us. You know, I think that's why the chairman who runs the session and who's going to decide whether one of us overstepped, went off-the-book or not, and that we all need to respect that. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30147	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30148	Yeah. Well, I mean, you have one hand right, but just before I told you. So there's a big difference between this morning's session and the noon session. So there's a way for a session to look like this, not what it looked like in the morning. It's just a question of how you take her. And that's what I've been calling for. So, nothing was going on any different than in the morning. Now we don't have any drama. In the morning, we had what we had. Here, it's my only appeal. And as for the width of the debate, no matter what the situation is about. I have deviated here from this simple lesson by Fred that not because there is a great political interest of the Croatian public to hear it. So, when there's a situation like this in the future, I'm going to do it again like I did now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30149	Representative Ljubica Lukačić answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30150	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Maras, I am convinced that after today's debate, the Croatian public will no longer be sure of what we discussed here today. Because as I told you this morning, you and many other MPs who have been arguing here today in a completely wrong, absolutely wrong direction. That's why there's a Rules of Procedure to stick to the subject. You, as I told you, are a longtime representative, and surely you know it very, very well. It would be good if at least here you were at the end of the closing word a little bit more stuck to the subject than it was all over today. It would be good for us all to stick to the Rules of Procedure and for you to set an example for the new MPs. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that after all day, I really don't think our public will know what we're talking about here today. And as for the strategically important issues that you have discussed here today, INA, HEP, etc. You don't have to worry about that. So people who are in power of both HDZ and Most are certainly capable enough to know how to agree or decide correctly on strategic issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30151	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30152	I agree with you that a lot of people are probably confused. Although I believe the messages have come to them. If nothing, that situation when speaking has led to the end of the session. It is a very important message to see that the inequality of the conduct of the session of the Croatian Parliament can lead to the excess when parliamentary representatives are not spoken. So this is one message that I would say over the subject of great importance and perhaps in the future because of this situation today we will have a different practice that will not lead to such situations. So, if that happens, it's already some use. Secondly, I'm sure the people who listened today heard the message I wanted to send that people who were in the coalition are accusing each other. So, some are slanderers, others are criminals. So that's also a very important message for me to have people hear today. And thirdly, I'm not sure your thesis is right that I don't have to worry about INA, because HDZ has knowledge, and it's gonna be okay. In 2007, the same thing was the HDZ in position, and in 2009, we had the contract we had. Sanader got it. You and I were MPs in the Parliament. We know how it went. In the end, we had a commission. And that's why I'm a little more emotional about INA because long before Mr. Bulj, so five years before Mr. Bulj, I initiated an investigative committee where Prime Minister Sanader answered questions about all the things that are being shown today and what are the issues of arbitration. So don't have so much faith in Bianca, in some people, no matter what you think they're gonna do, because in the past, it's not exactly what they did.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30153	The President's incursion: Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30154	For example, Minister Maric also participated in talks on the 2009 INA contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30155	Thank you. Representative Maras, thank you. Before we finish today with the plenary session, I will have to warn myself that I will especially strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure. I've already announced it several times. I think enough time has passed, and I think the public should know it in this way and at the moment I'm telling the MPs. I'd like you to conduct an internal debate outside the assembly, respected and respected representatives. I think it's three months long enough for the MPs to get to know the Rules of Procedure. So they know we have to stick to the subject. I would also pray for parliamentary representatives, and that was maybe 10 minutes ago and since this whole day was not a warning, but I will warn when the replica is not referred to the person to whom it should be directed but to another person but I will also warn and of course use the Rules of Procedure. I would really ask all of you and those who are not here today, at this point, not to be prepared for it. I hope I don't have to use the measures used by someone else but if necessary, I'll use them. That's what we do today's work. The session continues on Wednesday. I'm closing the debate. 25. January we continue at 9.30 p.m. with item 6 of the agenda – Proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 67. The session was interrupted at 3:13 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30156	Decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the denying of authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against the representative, Milorad Pupovac. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the I give the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to confirm the decisions, which reads: During the term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against the representatives of Prof. Dr. Milorad Pupovac, at the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Staniša Zarkovic of Virovitica and Nenad Vlahovic of Gareshnica, on the appeal brought to the Municipal Court in Osijek for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(1). Penalty law through 11. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. 114 for, 5 abstentions, 3 against. I find that most votes have confirmed the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. There is now a report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, a request for authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against God Petrov, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision, which reads: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against MPs is denied, God Petrov, at the request of the attorney-in-law Tomislav Karamark, on the appeal brought on 16 September 2016 to the municipal court in Zadar for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law through 11. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over, 116 votes for, 6 abstentions, none against. I find that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And a report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mira Bulja, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision which reads: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Mira Bulj at the request of the attorney-general Tomislav Karamark on the appeal brought on 16 September 2016 to the municipal court in Zadar for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(2). The penalty law of the eleventh. Please engage and vote. 111 votes for, 6 abstentions, 4 against. I find that most votes have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30157	Moving to second point: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30158	Thank you, Vice President. If you don't mind, I'd like all three reports and then possibly if there was some debate afterwards. Thank you. At the 12th session held on 2 February 2017, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament addressed the request of the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Nikola Grumoje of MPs in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Nikola Grmoja is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall, after the hearing has been held, take the view of Article 160. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes, for the duration of the parliamentary term of office, shall be denied the authorisation to continue the conduct of the criminal proceedings before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb, against MP Nikola Grumoje under the suit of private prosecutor Ranko Ostojsic for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. A brief explanation. A principled position is taken to grant, upon request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, an authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings, and also a court which conducts the criminal proceedings in order to enable the Constitution and the law to exercise its jurisdiction independently and independently. However, in the case of private prosecutors, we will retain the practice we have so far had not to remove immunity from the MPs. Report number two. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 12th session held on 2 February 2017 the request of the damagees as the subsidiary prosecutor Joza Ostojic of Dubrovnik sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Mara Christic of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for criminal offences against personal freedom, the threat referred to in Article 129(3). Criminal law in connection with Article 38 of the same law. On 19 October 2016, Maro Kristic began acting as deputy representative of Ivan Kovačić and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has been terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. The commission found that the municipal state attorney's office in Dubrovnik had ruled out criminal charges against Mara Kristic, and the damage to the prosecutor, Jozo Ostojic, took over the prosecution without discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 6 votes to propose a next decision to the Croatian Parliament. During the term of office, authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against representative Mara Kristic shall be denied at the request of the damageor as subsidiary prosecutor Joza Ostojic in the case before the Municipal Court of Dubrovnik for the offence against personal freedom, the threat referred to in Article 129(3). Criminal law in connection with Article 38 of the same law. The commission has taken a principled view that at the request of the State's Attorney's Office as an independent and independent not to repeat it, I think the situation is quite clear to all. So even in this case, when it comes to a subsidiary prosecutor, the position of the commission is not to remove immunity. Report under regular number 3. At the 12th session held on 2 February 2017, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Zoran Milanovic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 14. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament puts its parliamentary mandate to rest on 1st March 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed that the MP has the right once during the term of office by submitting a written request to the President of the Parliament to put his mandate on hold, and the commission has found that the conditions laid down for the start of the term of office of representative Zoran Milanovic have been met. Following the debate, the Commission shall be based on Article 14(1). The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has reached a unanimous decision and proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision to begin the stay of MP Zoran Milanovic with the day of 1 March 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30159	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I propose a united debate on all three points sent by the commission. First individual discussion of colleague Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30160	Thank you very much. Vice President! About the first two points of the Reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission I think it is clear that there is a situation as we have already had several times in this Croatian Assembly. In fact, in this debate, I would like to refer to the third report relating to the appointment of Mr Milanovic, and I would like to use one famous illustration of Delic's commentator: "People of mine, is it possible!" is it possible that we have welcomed and since my memory is served by MP Milanovic in this Assembly for the first and last time on the day of the establishment of the Parliament when he took the oath even to this day more than once. It would have been expected if he had already known that he would not participate in parliament's work nor come here to Parliament that he had put his mandate on hold until at least the end of October, however, he submitted a request to put his mandate on hold with March 1st. Today is the beginning of February, so it is still expected to pay for the month of February. So it's really his right to use the law that way and I'm just wondering if it's moral. For me, it was scandalous precisely because he already knew in the 14th 10th century that he would no longer come as a representative and take part in the work of this Assembly and that he was always exercising his right to pay by forgetting that he had obligations. Of course, it goes to honor Mr Milanovic and your colleagues from the SDP who are his party colleagues and, of course, I assume your court will give its citizens the same opinion as I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30161	Thank you. We have replicas. First up, he's a colleague of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30162	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President! My colleague Jelkovac came to me completely wrong in a place where she thought she would get sympathy from someone because she accused one of coming or not to a session for a few months of which we were all out of the Assembly while forgetting another thing, which is that it was quite a practice in her party that the party president showed up three times in four years here, and most often on the current clock, Mr. Karamarko, probably at that time Mrs. Jelkovac clapped at the Karamark meetings in Karlovac when he came and when thousands of people there gathered but then she didn't mind if someone came or didn't come. We have warned, voters have assessed it and will assess both this action or the activity or inactivity of the parliamentary representative. But you must be consistent, if you objected because you are now objecting to Milanovic, then you should also object to Karamark. I am not going to take a stand on it now, as you have taken it, only asking the MPs for consistency in their views, and the difference between, for example, MP Milanovic and you and what he represents in this House or does not represent 1:50, so the man has received 51 thousand preferential votes to be in parliament and you have received a thousand. So there's this analogy and that difference and probably that now it's being re-chosen between him and you would be 1/50 again so try to keep it I'd say consistency and don't if someone decided to try to collect two points on his departure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30163	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30164	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I'm just being consistent. I want to tell you that I have expressed my position here, and mine is also in relation to what you said about former HDZ President Mr. Karamark, and I also don't think it's as good as I've said here that I find it scandalous that Mr. Milanovic was not in the Assembly from 14.10 to today. Please, you have challenged my mandate here by comparing the number of votes I received from Mr Milanovic, I do not think it is correct. I wonder if Mr. Milanovic would get that number of votes in the next election, given what he did, that four and a half months would receive a salary without any day being here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30165	Thank you. The next replica of Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelkovac, to be clear at first, I am an absolute opponent of the practice of every one who does not come to work and receives undeserved salary, not only in the case of Zoran Milanovic but also other colleagues and colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament and has them, he is not the only one, he may be one of the most prominent and most attractive cases at the moment. But let's apply the same criteria for everything and be credible. You asked my people if it was possible for Zoran Milanovic to finally leave the Parliament after a few months, as he announced. It is possible that he also announced that he will be in the Croatian Parliament for a while and that he will freeze his mandate after electing a new president and new SDP leadership. And instead of these verses, actually which you have applied, "My people, is that possible?""Mice Dusanović seems to me Young Delic, I apologize. [[Intruder: Mladen Delic.]] Young Delic, I think the better lyrics that would suit you would be the Bebeks: "What did I need this for?" because you from HDZ are the last ones to ask the question of how responsible or irresponsible it is to receive wages and not to come to work. If he had mentioned the Bridge, the Living Wall, anyone in this Assembly, I wouldn't have said a word, but you who were active when your President Karamarko received his salary for four years and didn't show up here in the Croatian Parliament any, here I am now Googled, no media statement from you to fence yourself from it and to scrutinize it I didn't find. So you kept your mouth shut and now you're trying to score at it. And I repeat again, they are the same for me in this case both Karamarko and Milanovic, but you are the last of the HDZ to have the right to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30167	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30168	Comrade Voter, it's absolutely clear to me that you're defending your president this morning, but I must warn you, obviously you've replaced me with someone. I didn't sit in this House when Mr Karamarko was a representative, I was in HDZ, I said for a while that I was judging and that it was my personal position and the lack of Mr Karamark and also Mr Milanovic's failure, but you can't compare them to the same extent. Mr. Karamarko came to this Assembly and Mr. Milanovic came here, took an oath and never showed up again. So he intended to never show up here again in the 14th 10th, and then he still filed for a term of office to stand still with March 1st. What's the date today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30169	Thank you very much. Don't throw it away. The next replica of counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30170	Thank you, Vice President. To calm your tensions down a little bit, my colleagues, I'm not going to attack you, but I just want to point out that your debate really isn't correct, it's not in place, and I don't think you even needed it. As for counterpart Milanovic that he announced that he would leave and now he's gone and you say you weren't. I was in the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament with Mr Karamark who was here seven times in four years, in this Assembly seven times. He spoke three times. It didn't bother you at the time. You've been a HDZ official, you don't have to be an agent in order to say one of your opinions. I did not notice that in Karlovac you called a press conference to express your disagreement with your president, even your then President Plenkovic had the courage when it was seen that Karamarko in a knock down on your Assembly pointed to his irregularities despite anemia, he had courage. You almost beat him there, then after 15 days you chose him president, but brave of him. He's pulling from it today, Benefit. You didn't have that courage in four years to tell me once it's embarrassing as a member of a party whose president doesn't come to work and gets paid every month. But on the other hand, I see your debate suggests that you lack Mr. Milanovic, you miss him. Well, that's how much you all mention him there. I don't know who you're going to mention behind 1.3 more, nonstop. I just want to tell you, it's not right, always look at yourself, sweep first in front of your door and then call someone else. You didn't need this, and you didn't need these things in the 7th session, and you never had a discussion before. This is the first time in the 9th session that we are discussing reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, putting someone's mandate on hold, activating someone's term of office, it's a practice that has never been done because it's a technical issue. But this whole Parliament must have started this assembly wrong, so it has to end that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30171	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30172	Dear colleague, I really can't agree with you that I didn't need this debate. Look, at least here I publicly said that I was condemning our former president here in the Parliament as much as he was but he was, at the time he was president of the party who had other duties and was on the ground but he was here in the Assembly, taking part in the debates. The difference with this situation is that Mr Milanovic has already made a decision on 14-10 that he will not be coming to this Assembly and has put his mandate to rest until March 1st. I really don't want to do the controversy of this, I just expect you to be consistent, as you then called Mr. Karamark to condemn today this act of your former president. As far as I know, Mr Bernardic has been elected and Mr Milanovic puts his mandate on hold until March 1st. I don't see why that is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30173	Thank you very much. The next replica of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I really want to bring down a little passion on this issue because this is a subject that has retreated to the media many times and not only on your part but also on our side. The fact is that Mr Milanovic did not come in this session of parliament, but it is also the fact that he was elected four times in this House, twice won the highest number of votes preferential, that he was once Croatian prime minister. So, I think we should all respect that for a little bit, man's been in public life for ten years. So, I think he's given this country enough to work enough for this country to allow and tolerate something that could in principle be completely common to, say, not immediately activate the mandate or resign and activate 6 plus 6, so he would have the right 6 months on full salary and 6 months on half salary. And he'd have all the health care rights and I don't know what kind. So now that 1.3, he's gone, he's frozen, he's probably never going to freeze his mandate again, and he's not going to get out of the budget anymore. So he could have left, he could have activated, and no one could have objected to him. I'm just saying, let's have a little respect for the people who gave a lot for this country. You don't have to agree with him or me, we're on opposite political sides. The man was the prime minister, he was the leader of the opposition, twice elected to the Parliament with the highest number of preferential votes, and I guess he deserved to carry out what, i.e. to get what each of us would have to leave Parliament tomorrow. Let's not, let's lower our tensions, give people some honor. Let's have, let's hear ourselves at the end. Here, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30175	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30176	Comrade Sauch, I must say that your debate in this area has impressed me most among all of your colleagues because it is the most real and the best for you. So I wasn't talking about rights, I know what the rights of all MPs are, I was talking about the other dimension, the moral dimension. I just think that all of us here as advocates have rights but also obligations. And on this act Mr Milanovic will be tried by citizens, my court does not matter. So, I'd just like to say, of course, what you said about him having certain merits because he's been acting on the duties he has I'm not at all contesting, I've been talking about something else, and you've been very well aware of what I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30177	Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas. The next individual debate is a representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30178	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I wouldn't answer for this debate, here's what my colleagues said that until now, there's been no debate about these reports at all, but I think that's exactly what my colleague Maras has contributed to, who has made a certain show out of every session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so on the last one where my colleague Maru Christic and I have discussed the immunity of me and my colleague, he said that here he wants to protect Nikola Grmoi and even his irresponsible statements. You don't need me to protect my colleague Maras from anything, I've already been to several hearings as far as this case is concerned, and I'm going to get that trial because he's got this trial of a man who brought up the first piece of information and through which I came up with that information. So I can't lose that process. You have nothing to protect me from, from every session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to do a show where you're talking about some kind of Metkovic's Rules of Procedure, it's not even Metkovicic, it's methodical, it's against you, you're hurting your colleagues of the SDPs in Metkovic and they're doing well, so if you don't do a show at these sessions there won't be a lot of these discussions that aren't necessary because this really isn't necessary. And as for Mr Milanovic, I think that the man has left politics and that there is no point in dragging him around here in this Assembly, if there is anything controversial about these diaries, let the competent institutions investigate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30179	We have two replicas. A fellow Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30180	Thank you very much. Mr. Grumoja, I don't do MP sessions anything unusual compared to what you do in government behavior. Has it ever happened that partners in the coalition are accusing each other of crime? It's not. If it's a new situation, if it's something that's not normal, and you normally provoke such a debate, you provoke a debate if you say Karamarko is a criminal and he's been removed because of it, so how come you don't discuss it at the MIP? If someone's got the verdict this same as you say you're being sued by Mr. Ostojić, I wonder if he's got a fee. It means because he was obviously wrongly sued. And you are slandered when Mr. Ostojić said that you slandered him, or that someone was following you for something he shouldn't have. So the state's gonna need to damage you, right? We'll see if you get that fee from the state and whether it really was and whether it was an over-rule of power, etc. I expect you to seek compensation from the state for being unfoundedly followed if you are found in a court of law to be followed, which I'm sure is not true. And whether you've said something legally or legally, or not you've proven it, I'm less interested in it. So I'm wondering if someone followed you or didn't, if he wasn't following you or following you, and he shouldn't have, then you have the right to compensation. We'll see if you get that fee. As for Metkovic, I apologize to all the residents this way because I really shouldn't have identified them, or I shouldn't have identified the Bridge with the beautiful town of Metkovic and its hardworking residents, that way I offended them and I apologize to them, so it's not the meth business or the bridge is equal to Metkovic. Thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30181	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30182	Well, again, I don't know how you came to some topic that has nothing to do with this case. You're in last session, not about Karamark, but about the particular process I have with your party colleague, so you did the show and said that you wanted to protect me from my irresponsible statements. You're on your way to that show, not related to Karamark, and every time you do that, that's what I'm talking about, but you obviously don't get it. And as for this follow-up and everything that was happening, everything that Most claimed about Milanovic's schemes and attempts to break the Bridge proved to be correct, and that's why now that all the media is trampling Milanovic, I said I would never say more about Zoran Milanovic and I have no intention of slapping a dead donkey and I won't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30183	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30184	I'm surprised to see you. So you have the protector of the greatest in the Parliament, the best minister in Mr. Maras' history. Well, you must be proud. If he were such a protector to me, I'd be proud to walk with Metkovic and he must have hit a man. I don't know now you're rebelling that Metkovic's statute to be transmitted Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Rules of Procedure.]] He says "MOST" now. Of course the MOST is no longer just in Metkovic. That's why Mr. Maras is in opposition now. And be proud of it when you, when Maras is the most important minister, i.e. The best since the 1990s, your protector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30185	Thank you very much. Is there an answer? There isn't. We'll stay depriving. This concludes the debate. No, we still have, excuse me, another individual debate from fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30186	Thank you, Vice President. So there's nothing lower for me, nothing poorer, nothing poorer than when the Mandate-Immunity Commission report is used for political debates. We have a constitution. This Constitution and this article the Constitution was adopted at a time when actually the greatest influence on the appearance of this constitution had by President Tudjman. The Constitution says that MPs do not have an imperative mandate, they do not. A representative may be elected, may never come to the session within four years, may not say a word and you have no right to object to him if you respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You can think about him whatever you want as badly as I think about agents who don't come to work, I mean bad. Not just the representatives of your club, but the representatives of your club. I've been here a long time, and I'm known as one of the more active. But it would never occur to me, not even to those who are from your club in your former mandates, to object to them for principled reasons, because I respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It's an important thing. Someone said, Milanovic could have used 6+6. He could have, many MPs used it, and the prime ministers used it. So shall We blame them? Well, you can't blame someone if they use their rights, because it's deeply immoral, deeply immoral. You can use your right not to come here. It would be immoral of me to attack you why you're using your right. As for immunity, immunity exists absolute for the spoken word in the Parliament, there is one relative outside the Parliament. I've always advocated that immunity be respected absolutely. Last time I spoke against the opinion of my club, I didn't need to take off immunity even when it was wanted by the State's Attorney's office. Why? Because a state's attorney is elected to the Parliament on a proposal from the government. So who guarantees me that this man will be objective. I have great respect for this state's attorney, so that someone doesn't accidentally think that I'm thinking about him or that I have any opinion about him. But theoretically, this man can act politically in his office, and that's why I'm not for even removing immunity, but for expanding immunity. Because a representative can't be prosecuted for a spoken word, but it can be material. And it's being abused. He was sued by HRT for saying that some shows were being bought. Cain got that dispute, but they bullied him, he had to go to court. I'm here to say that if we once agreed to change the Constitution to make that correction and we say a representative can't be punished, he can't be prosecuted, he can't be prosecuted, he can't be materialized because of the spoken word because it's the meaning of a representative. The point of a representative is to speak. It's a job to warn. He can speak wrong, he can speak wrong. But here they are, I'm only talking about principles here. And let's not be surprised if we're the last institution citizens respect. We're in the last place, because this is how we talk about each other. If you think the MP can't or shouldn't receive salary and not come here, suggest changing the Constitution, and we'll introduce an imperative mandate, but then we won't be MPs anymore, but MPs, and that's a very different matter for you. Because you represent the citizens who elected you, and you cannot be removed from this place by your party, or by God's father. He's the only one who can call you. But no one else. And the important thing is, it's important, that immunity is important. And that's why I called in to discuss speaking in principle. I don't care if it is, what happened between Grmoya and Ostojić. When the mandates are over, nothing will happen, then a court case will be conducted. But it can't be a court case, it can't be an instrument of political struggle. We can't, we can't let that happen in the interest of protecting this institution. As I ask you, I believe you made a mistake today, think about it. Do not report to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, because they are principled, they are written according to the law and according to the Constitution to use for political accounts. Find any other area, so there's as many as you want. So attack, never mind. But this is what he thinks, don't be angry, my dear colleague, I find this unworthy and I attribute it to your inexperience, not badness, but just inexperience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30187	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Honorable representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30188	Dear colleague Stazic. As far as your immunity hearing is concerned, I really agree with you most of the time. As for the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commissions and the debate on them, I believe you will agree with me because you were present in this assembly as well as I have that we have had them every time in this assembly. So I didn't make any precedent today. And as for my debate, so I know what our mandate is under the Constitution and I didn't talk about Mr. Milanovic breaking anything, I was talking about another dimension, and I think you've figured it out. Now you've told me in your debate that I've actually pollemized about it for some political points, so I wouldn't agree with you really wasn't my intention. You can see there's no media or anyone here. I really wanted to point out that I believe that we all have rights here, obligations and that what I find unacceptable is only in this case that Mr Milanović already knew that he would no longer come and participate in the work of the Parliament. However, it is his decision and I have the right to my position on it, I said it. You challenged me, you condemned me for it, and you didn't judge your colleagues from your club when they also condemned Mr. Karamark in the last term for not coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30189	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30190	For the first time in this assembly, I have been here since 2000, only in this assembly has it begun to discuss the reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and I consider it a bad precedent, I find it a bad precedent. I call on all the representatives from my club and your club not to do it, not to use it for political struggle. You say you're aware of the Constitution, that you're aware of the law, but that you have moral grudges, but why do you think you have the right to be a moral arbiter, why, who gave you the right to have you fellow arbitration? I will never be your moral arbiter, you have your beliefs and you spend them, you live them however you know, but that right you took over a little bit, you took a little too much right. I'm telling you again, I'm not telling you this out of malice, this advice of mine is friendly to you, and I repeat, I believe you've done it out of obnoxiousness, out of inexperience, you're here for the first time, so you don't know what it's been like in the past. So this is something our Mandate-Immunity Commission is a commission that we must protect all, all without distinction, and respect all their proposals because they are not meaningless. And they were never politically motivated, ever. I've been here a long time, never had a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission aimed at political reckoning. There's always a parliamentary majority in it, there's a majority now. Therefore, we intend to make my call, kind.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30191	Thank you very much. The next replica of his colleague, Nicole Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30192	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Stazic, I didn't answer to replicate you because I agree with one part of your presentation, I answered because I protested that you had the right to speak at all because I had to go there for a piece of paper, Mr. Bukarica directed me, and he gave you a paper that he pulled under the table. I understand your state of health, but I think when we talk about the rights and obligations of the MPs that we all need to be in the same position.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30193	Thank you very much. This is a pain alive. You want to answer what you want to do about this? Oh, come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30194	And I call on you to enable you now as parliamentary majority, and you also have the President of the Parliament that MPs can finally start reporting for the debate by electronic means, with the pills that the president has promised, so I don't know if we're going to get them because this outdated way of reporting for discussion, I don't know where there is. And now to insist that this note has to be exactly the form that's in there... And he sent you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I think while we're there, I think the Secretary of Parliament should have several copies of the application for the current agenda. He can send a guard to bring it to him, he doesn't have to go anywhere, get him 20 copies and be there. But to make sure that as soon as possible by cell phone, I come to Parliament's site and sign up for a debate and get out there on the screen, that I can do it from home when I see that there's a point on the agenda to read and sign up for debate. Therefore, you invite me to go out and I invite you to take advantage of your authority with President of the Parliament and to introduce it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30195	Thank you very much. And until then, you've only heard from tomorrow that there's enough paper at your place. We're going to another replica of our colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30196	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazic, I was pleased to listen to you because we have been crying out since the start of this House's mandate that you have abused some of the practices so far and have gone in the wrong direction. Both you and your colleagues in the Living Wall and all those who were concerned with all these removals of immunity or not stripping, we listened to daily Bible readings, all that was related to certain cases, and no one was bothered. And it recently hurt me when my colleague Bauk came out here, says when we discussed Mr. Bulj's immunity, I also feel sorry for Mr. Petrov, says you threw the ball at us, and we'll knock, remember, and then it was allowed. Now we've caught up and we've gone really to the extreme, this is the extreme to discuss someone's freezing mandate. That's never done before. . /. And really maybe a colleague wanted to say something. You said it was good to speak even wrong, that it was the task of a parliamentary representative. I don't think it's wrong, we just wanted to show if we're going to continue to insist on new practices, on discussions that happen on the Mandate-Immunity Commission upstairs, on some plays, if we're going to transfer it here to the Assembly, and then there's going to be a lot of injured and it's normal. Then it'll come to a political struggle and then it'll look like this. And if you have already begun to defend Mr Milanovic with the number of preferential votes, don't do it because he received 51,000 preferential votes. His absence here, his reluctantness means 51,000 disappointed voters who precisely wanted him to sit here, to fight for them, to be in the Parliament, to speak, to protect their interests, but he didn't do it. So you're going the wrong way, now we're just showing that we can do it. And we're already warning a lot of things. You've begun to tear down the quorums. We said maybe your laws will come, maybe we'll take that practice too. So be what we were in the last term. We've been a little bit more alive, but we've never done these things before. Here's just to be clear. [[Intruder Vrdoljak: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30197	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30198	Now I don't know, to start with this last one. Quarum, the collapse of the quorum is a legitimate means of parliamentary struggle used in all parliaments of the world. Why? Because the quorum is in charge of the parliamentary majority. The collapse of the quorum is an indication that the government has no support in Parliament. So don't mess with this. So, they're complaining to me that I'm theater in the debates, maybe I am. But I would never be theatral, and I never wanted to be, I never wanted to talk like that when it came to the Mandate-Immunity Commission. It began in this term with Cule, because he insisted on talking about his case, because he expressed it dramatically, completely unnecessary. And even when it comes to Culei, even when it comes to it, I've spoken in principle here when it comes to my colleague Pernar, even when it comes to the State's Attorney's Office. There is time, Culeu's term will expire, the term of office will expire. He broke records there, actually committed vandalism. Vandalism is common, nothing else, far worse than spraying on facades. But in principle, if we speak, then we protect all MPs because it's important. That's important. There'll be another state attorney tomorrow. The question is whether they'll behave as principledly as this and the past, I don't know, maybe they won't. I knew them who didn't behave like that. I knew those who were fulfilling party orders, party orders, orders from the party that chose them, and that's why protecting this is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30199	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the second item of the agenda – Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We'll vote of course when the conditions are met. One more day we are enriched with our work in the Parliament. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 with the Proposal for a Decision to appoint 8 members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 1928 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30200	Thank you, Agent Panenic. We're continuing the plenary session. First point - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission I hope you will have understanding regardless of what is announced the second point due to the new circumstances have happened. I would like to ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30201	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 13th session held on the day of today the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime from 9 February 2017 by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia also by act of 9 February 2017 with the President of the Croatian Parliament, with the authorisation for the deprivement of liberty, determination of detention, investigative prison and the launch of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Saucha of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(2) in connection with paragraph 1. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Penalty law. Tomislav Saucha is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament shall not be detained or a criminal procedure can be initiated. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 7 votes in favour and 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of the following decision: The Office for the Dispensation of Freedom, the establishment of the detention of an investigative prison against Tomislav Sauche of representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the DORH, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime of 9 February 2017, has been sent through the DORH Act of 9 February 2017 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that it has committed a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(2) in connection with paragraph 1. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Penalty law. Also after the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 7 votes in favour, 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament also provides the following decision: Approval is granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Saucha of representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the DORH, the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime from 9 February 2017 by means of an act of 9 February 2017 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(2) in conjunction with paragraph 1. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Penalty law. A brief explanation, the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided to propose an authorisation for the deprivation of liberty, the establishment of the detention of the investigating prison, as well as the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Saucha of representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the DORH as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duties uninterruptedly on the basis of which the Republic of Croatia is given jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30202	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, who volunteered for participation in the debate, I apologize. I apologize to my esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Representative Zeljko Glasnovic has applied for individual participation in the debate. As there is no representative of Glasnović, we move on. Representative Ivan Pernar also applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30203	Thank you, Chairman. So here we are today. Yesterday it happened to you let's say the shocking details that the government's money evaporated, allegedly half a million kuna. For many, it's big money and I agree, it's really a relatively large amount for ordinary citizens, for the state itself, and for the banks that make billions, it's actually small money. But what you'd like to say, that is. Why did I even sign up, so there are cases of huge withdrawals of money from state-owned companies where millions have evaporated. No one's ever answered for that. And there were so-called. black funds where certain HDZ members signed that they were taking money from them, none of them were processed for it. I suppose it was because of a lack of political will, that it was simply not the will to process it. And then we serve Tomislav Saucha as some kind of capital, a huge beast, here he even came to the cover of the Morning List, I think he never had it at least not in such a large format and it creates an illusion that the DORH is working to achieve something, etc. I think this process itself is pointless until a much more serious process with powerful convictions is over, like. The trial of Sanader, Vidosevic, etc. And for those big fish, unfortunately, there's no will in the DORH, and we see for one member of the opposition for a much smaller amount not only to find time, not only was the investigation, let's say fast and what is effective is said in the people, but it's being sought for our fellow council attorney in custody. This means that on the moment after our debate is over, and after the vote the students gathered at the gallery can testify, let's say that the police now enter here among the constituency benches and take the man out, etc. Such processes, unlike so many other processes where people have defended themselves with freedom, I find it sad and there is no need to determine the detention team any more than man has already been, gave a statement to DORH, the experts have already found that the signatures were real and eventually all already questioned who spoke to these advisers Milanovics said they had not traveled, that they had not seen the money. So it says in that DORH request to remove immunity that these office employees also said that Saucha allegedly told them that they were giving it, etc., etc., which will say that I do not see the point of determining for him an investigative prison because the matter was more or less related to the past time. Saucha is no longer, does not work in the government, Saucha no longer has any power to, to say, write some journals again. So there's no fear of repeating the crime, things have already been investigated, so eventually they're looking for an investigation. And I think that the measure of an investigative prison for him is essentially the wrong team as far as the Constitution makes everyone innocent until proven otherwise, and that is, in some way, prejudges guilt, or going to prison, is somehow condemned in advance and, and also media, you know when the Morning Paper writes the cover, when you come to it, you watch out for being taken to prison, and even if it's not the man who's going to believe him anymore. So that's one, I'd say the Stalinist process, but this time not directed by the party, this time it's one, as I would say, I think it's also intended to divert the debate from the trust of the Secretary of the Navy. Because just when we were supposed to vote on it, Barisic, excuse me, Minister Barisic, just arrived at 8.30 a.m. Well, I'm proposing to my colleagues that they don't give consent, say, okay, we can investigate, we can do anything, but don't take a man to jail right now. 'Cause look, if we vote now, now it is, here I have three minutes left, then there will be a gentleman from HDZ Yeah, yeah. [[Breaking president: 3 minutes and 40 seconds.]] There's just a good chance the police might be waiting outside his apartment. You sign him now, I won't give him a death sentence, but if you know what it means to go to prison in Remetic, how you're being searched, etc., and there was a colleague of ours sitting here with us. That could happen to one of you tomorrow. Have, have consideration for your colleagues. Well, I remember him, he was always cultural and nice, and I don't think he's some kind of dangerous person I should be holding up right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30204	Agent Pernar, thank you. I'd single out one thing. I don't know if you have any knowledge of the council's representatives that the same could happen to them, if you do, it would be your duty to report it, or yourself or them. And as for your struggle and everyone's fight against false media inscriptions, you said you'd fight as we fight. Also, we don't see a problem, let them beat but we know how to get back. Relativisation on the third side of any action is not good. Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30205	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues. Sir, colleague Pernar, whose chicken egg are you in this Croatian Assembly, who are you representing, who are you representing? Who are the ones who see you as an idol from high school. Go to kindergarten, maybe find some people out there who'll understand your stories? What story did you come out of? In what way are we all here? I ask you, is this the same colleague of ours who insulted Mr. Barisic's Croatian Parliament yesterday, demeaning as many others here? [[/The Incursion President: Representative Culey, I would ask without disrespecting the parliamentary deputies! With all due respect to everyone.]] In what way, for what, in the name of what? And now you're looking for mercy for someone or something who didn't deserve it at all as well as others. Is there a big crime or a little crime? How can everything be destroyed? How many ways is there to kill a man? So you have a rifle, a pen, a word and a deed. And what method did we apply here yesterday over Mr. Barisic of the four? Are we or aren't we? Have you asked for mercy today, for whom? We talk about thieves every day, especially you, accuse the entire half of the Croatian Parliament. We're all in the same package in your mouth, so we're all thieves, and in some cases fascists when it's necessary to achieve an effect when some kids come up to the gallery. And what's this about? And everyone's voting to take away immunity and you're not. Why not you? Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30206	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30207	Thank you, Chairman. So here's Mr. Culey when there was a debate on the abolition of your immunity just the Live Wall representatives were against removing your immunity and HDZ and SDP were in favour. Why were we against it? Well, here's Mr. Culey, whose chicken egg we were then, here you go. Likewise, Mr. Sauchi is now likely to be singled out by HDZ and the SDP. So this isn't about me being biased or us, our colleagues towards you or Mr. Sauchi, but we're simply trying to point out that institutions are dealing with petty crime and that big crime, crime of giant proportions, crime of privatisation, which is why we're all on our knees. And this CNB policy just doesn't touch it, that's not a question. And as one saying goes, "little thieves are hanged, and the big hat is taken off," and that is one policy of continuity. So my goal is just to point out that instead of us rotting heads, instead of big fish, we're actually dealing with tails and we're trying to say cut them off. However, as long as the big heads are free, as long as the big heads have friends in the Supreme Court and what's called the Constitutional Court has no right and justice for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30208	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30209	My colleague Pernar, I wouldn't talk about our colleague, when he says judicial bodies. However, Parliamentarians, I am not gods like you. I personally asked for my immunity to be removed and you respected it. While your case was different, you begged not to remove your immunity. What does this card mean? I'm sorry you called on these upstairs students to know who has this card that has immunity. And you're calling as well as you know that a colleague would be among us. I don't judge him, I don't accuse him, it'll be the relevant bodies. But the fact is that in Croatian prisons should be made, i.e. enlargement of Croatian prisons. Surely in Croatian prisons there are people who did not want to be because of two feta prosciuttos are in prisons, and those who have taken billions are now walking. Those who are INA's sister companies, such as Jozo Petrovic, are free. I personally believe that you said one lapus, that we must be protected by this card. This card to protect us. That's embarrassing for me. How do Croatian defenders feel now that chapter 23 has been opened, while you are personally going on tour with these Chetniks. That you were in Banja Luka and you were with this party The Beast, which is a large-serb Chetnik organization supported directly by Seselj's ranks. That's not good. You protect these people, and I agree that the Croatian National Bank is a problem. I agree that there are a number of criminals at large, and I agree that we are losing our arbitration because our judicial authorities are not working, from the DORH, the USOK. They don't work in the interest of the citizens, but to protect us from what you've been calling here to vote is not fair for you to tell the students. We're citizens like others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30210	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30211	Mr. Bull, I don't think the Chetniks have anything to do with this debate right now, but okay. I just wanted to say that nobody argues that the guilty should be punished. However, we are in a paradoxical social situation, that those great culprits are protected not only in the sense that they are waiting in the Kalmeta case for five years to press charges or that in Vidosevic's case for three years at all at the beginning of the trial but even in those rare cases, watch this. Protect them and in a way that they just say to me he said, "Let's say Ivo Sanader," and whatever anyone was doing, he's suddenly a free man. So everything he did was nothing. And in the end, and the only one everyone incriminates, who they're talking about, he's the one, he's telling us that we're giving money, we're pulling it out, and so on. In the end, he's convicted, too. And you have a situation that a man who took 14 million kunas from the state register so what's his punishment? It's potato peeling. There. A settlement, a peel of potatoes. And Tomislav Sauch, he, for him, is wanted for custody to watch out if that 14th, this is half a million kuna, so that's 28 times less. So, it's more likely that Tomislav Saucha will go to prison for disappearance, if he's guilty, I'm not saying he is for half a million kuna, but Cobankovic's for 28 times the amount. Why? For that reason, it was for political reasons that the blame would be passed on to one man, and then the only man would be condemned. And that's the way the judiciary works is what I want to point out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30212	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30213	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Pernar, I cannot take the impression that you are here today solely in the role of the SDP lawyer, or lawyer Tomislav Sauche, and you are trying in every way to distract yourself from what is today the subject of the debate, which is the request of the DORH to remove Mr. Sauchi's immunity so that he can proceed further and determine whether he has kept to himself how he writes here the property benefit of 540532 kuna and 1360 euros. You say it's small money. Well, I don't know about Croatian citizens if it's small money, for me it's not small money, and I think it's a big crime if it's true. We're not here in court, nor can you be anyone's lawyer to judge what's the big blame, which is a small guilt. But somehow you're always itchy by the HDZ, you don't mention anyone else. You don't even remember those yellow envelopes you're still looking into. Maybe that's why you're afraid if we take off an immunity agent now that maybe you won't get in line. Therefore, stir up a little bit in front of your door, don't be every pot lid, vote like this once, twice as your colleague Bulj told you, whine when a request comes to remove your immunity and pray don't vote to remove my immunity. Be consistent once. That card doesn't give any of us the right to commit criminal acts. Everyone defend themselves where they need to be, and that's the court, if they're looking here and some stricter measures unfortunately our colleague Saucha will have to bear it, and I hope to be honest that he will ultimately prove his innocence. But don't represent anyone's aggrieved interests, let some things work out the bodies that need to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30214	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30215	Respect. Well, look, every time politicians are in the game, then it's kind of a political process. You'll tell your colleague Sauch what he can't stand. Look, when it came to the crime of Eve Sanader, at the time of his term, Mr. Sanader didn't have to endure, then he was protected by all the institutions for years. And the decision to process him came only when he fell into the grip of the party's leadership. Such a course of action was also similar to the case of Glavas the same thing, the moment he resented Sanader at the moment the investigations were launched, the charges arrived, the real and false witnesses who charged him, etc., which will say that there are many, many issues that should be raised. And why is that? Because if this problem is not solved, the fact that large fish pass without punishment, and small fish are pushed into custody simply the problems in society will not be solved. It means people's trust in institutions is growing because I don't know her as a convicted colleague of Sach. No, trust would grow if, for example, Sanader, Kalmeta or Vidosevic were convicted. But they'll never be convicted, that's what Dinko Cvitan told me. He told me Ivan Sanader would never be convicted. So what? We can tell Sauch to be sentenced to life imprisonment, and what have we done with it? What good is it for society, what message did we send? You know what message we sent him, Mr. Saucha, if you'd stolen 14 million kunas, you'd have peeled potatoes, Mr. Saucha, if you'd taken 10 million or 5 million euros, you'd be a free man, your verdict would have fallen, you didn't steal Mr. Saucha. It's a message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30216	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the next reported the honourable representative Petar Škorić, a pardon. An individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30217	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the topic today, and this case that took place in the SDP encourages us to discuss how politics was conducted during the previous government, during the term of office of Prime Minister Milanovic. We are witnesses here yesterday with which ease, and also in recent days and years, SDP's are being thrown in mud and calling HDZ a criminal organisation, and all of this is practically by those who are being stripped of immunity today due to suspected crime. It was not pleasant to listen all day until late to the night of discredition and toss mud at our minister, the prime minister on members of the government. Trying to justify this act of counterfeiting, plagiarizing 532 diaries trying to justify this responsibility trying to transfer to a common little man to people who work in the administration to justify their shameful politics. So I ask all of you here, so who would dare to do so by an ordinary civil servant who lives on his salary, out of $4.5.6 thousand, resort to signing a 532 fake travel order, toss out a mockery of his government, all the advisors, the dignitaries for whom someone took false travel expenses. It certainly is not pleasant to listen to those advisers who have advised Milanovic's government, especially Mr. Budak, who spent more than 180 days on the road, and by all this, which turns out to be a very large charge. Yesterday, hypocritically on our right, they warned and called our minister of education that he was a plagiarist, and this case only confirms that they had plagiarized all their mandates. The shame with which ease is passed, with which ease is moralized, with which the light points to others. We are not going to do mud in advance here today, we appreciate Croatian institutions, their independence and we believe that they will do their job with extreme responsibility and professionalism. No SDP spins as false accusations against our government and our ministers that you have spent for days here will be able to hide the shame that occurred in the heart of the Kukuriku coalition. It is a shame that you once again pointed out this mockery as well as all your advisors who after all this is a message to everyone else as much as it is worth consulting at all. To talk about the government's report and which has been submitted to the DORH since 19 October, therefore the audit has identified irregularities and failures relating to expenditure in the section relating to work contracts and official travel contracts. As part of these expenditures for official travel, expenditure on official travel expenses for three special advisers to the Prime Minister amounting to 307,000 kuna are recorded abroad. Special advisers for science, for European law and culture were appointed as early as 2012, were not employees of the president's office and, according to a press release, they did the consulting work without any compensation. The expenditure for the journals 3 special advisers are recorded on the basis of 57 official travel orders abroad, according to which a total of 532 journals were paid in 2015. For two advisors, 186 daily journals were paid and one 160 daily journals. No travel orders shall be accompanied by either a road report or any other credible documentation to confirm that this is a journey and carried out. As of 16 September 2016, in connection with the expenditure on official travel expenditure, the General Affairs Office states that it has received the following information from the Office of the Prime Minister. The official travels of special advisers have been agreed and approved by the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister with a prior consultation with the Prime Minister himself. So here's the channel, it's this way of communication and today, the one who tries to transfer responsibility to someone else is clouding the Croatian public, hiding his usual mode of action. This isn't about failure or warrant one or two. and so on, it's an organized system. If they did this with travel orders, we can only imagine what was done in other areas. So let the rule of law work, and let the competent institutions do their job to the end, and let those who ply themselves with mud and point fingers at others first look at themselves in their own mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30218	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30219	Dear counterpart Skoric, you mentioned in your introduction the case in the SDP. I wouldn't exactly say there's a case being handled in the SDP, but the most important thing you mentioned, you mentioned last night's session and all the things we had the opportunity to hear, where the dignity of a man was insulted. All the things we've been listening to all these years where more than 200 thousand members of our party have been insulted. And last night about six o'clock when we got the mail, we members of the Mandate Commission, last night about six o'clock, all of us on this side of the assembly knew about this case. And I must say I was extremely proud of all these colleagues. And in no word did we mention to Sauch, nor to the SDP, nor to the detention, nor to what will happen. Nor do I want to call SDP as a party this is about people's names. And we don't know what's behind the hill yet. What Milanovic said, they were pushing the fox, King Kong will come out. Maybe he will, maybe he won't. But the crime scene carries the name and last name of the person who committed it, not the party, not the HDZ, not the SDP, what was being burdened on all of us. And to my children who are members of that party and my mother, my friends, my relatives, all of Croatia and 200 thousand of our members. And today it's happening again. I don't want you and I talking about SDP crime here. I want to finally start talking about the names of the people who did something about it. And the question is, what's been going on for all these four years is that these warrants are now coming out, it's been a lot more than just now that it's come out. We'll see what's going on. But those who did it have a name and a last name. And let's clear that up once more with a name and a last name. Who did what, who he worked for and how he worked. And get on with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30220	Thank you. The honourable representative Petar Škorić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30221	Dear colleague Klaric, you're absolutely right. There is also a fundamental difference between us and the SDP, which for individuals we do not suspect or accuse a collective, we do not suspect parties, we do not suspect Croatian society. Well, we can see, on the other hand, that because of the failure, because of the irresponsibility, the individual's crime in any segment of social life has only one direction and that's HDZ. That's inadmissible. That makes us different. We believe in the institutions of this state, we encourage the institutions to work independently, not to be subject to any pressures as it is certain in the past either to do their job correctly, to the end, and to make all those who have done anything wrong dishonest to sanction them because this is the only way and way to restore trust in political and public life in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30222	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30223	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Škorić, in a quiet tone I will tell you, Croatian defenders who are like... peeling his skin off his back, digging through his wounds to get to this Croatia after so many years, hundreds of years of darkness,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , injustices, to come and realize the Croatian dream and get their own Homeland of Croatia, punish themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In what way? That they kept quiet and kept quiet about everything that's been happening to them for all these 20s and a few years because we don't know when the injustice has exactly started with us, so we're going from 20s to a few years old. When we allow ourselves to be represented, those who are not, who have not earned nothing, nor have they earned any of their blood, sweat, sweat, work, they have not earned anything to insult us from this highest House, the Croatian people. They dragged us through the mud, crucified us, from Sava to Mark's Square. Who did this to us? Why did he do this to us? Who were our presidents? Who were their advisors? Who were our ministers? Who were our leaders? What have you been doing with us all these years since '91? So far? On whose behalf did you work for? With what intention? Why did you do this to us? Where were you taking us? Where were you going to take us? For who? Why? How many Croatian defenders are here? So raise your hands? Raise your voice more! I see little of you here fighting for the interests of Croatian defenders and Croatian state. Shut up, you're looking in front of your cell phones or blanks, and you all have war routes. Honor the exceptions here, the honorable men who fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30224	Thank you. Thank you. [[Don't hit Glavasevic little while I'm talking!]] The honourable representative Petar Škorić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30225	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Culej, even on this case, we are witnessing this particular story of yours about the discrediting of people, the institutions that work for this country, and it is specifically about cops, Croatian defenders, people who ensure public order and peace, who fought for this country. Well, in particular, Mr. Saucha had one case a few years ago in Sljemen where he savaged and insulted police officers. So this isn't the first time the judicial authorities have dealt with Mr. Sauchom. There was an incident, in which Saucha was insulted by intervention officers, threatened with Minister Ranko Ostovic and Principal Dominic. The story ended in court. The order of the Criminal Court in Zapresic Sauch was punished. He was complaining to a senior court. The Supreme Court also punished him. They didn't believe Sauchi. They believed the police. So the government that was there was information about what kind of behavior and actions were involved. She closed it in front of those eyes, but that's why they're willing to point a finger at others for procedures that aren't even running, let alone being processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30226	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30227	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Škorić, back only to the point, actually the starting point that someone has wet their fingers. Travel orders, journals, I'll tell you that here in my term I saw it. And if we were to return only to the actual living room as such, why, for example, do you receive a full diary if you have paid food? How many people I've met, and I wouldn't even want to go in there if there were any who went on the road, they were all paid. Here I personally feel like a politician since in some position I was also a minister, as well as a parliamentary representative, where I come usually to have food served already. Why didn't I take a diary at the ministry? It's just that I've been doing it before trying to get money out of the state budget, and it's that cash register, and it's the way it's the easiest way to get there. Then where people who have a certain position, where they have a certain power, where they represent people get into trouble because they break the law and do it consciously. And until we solve a problem that we actually know for ourselves which is the starting point, and often we find ourselves tempted and these opportunities open up to anyone, so when we see that up to 300 thousand kunas, then it's clear that the system doesn't work. And that's why I'm going to run on behalf of my colleagues at the Most Initiative too, and I don't need to go cash. The clear stand can also go to the current account, increasingly clean, increasingly clear and will not happen even if there is such evidence of Sauch or anyone else. And I'll remind you that in this House, we've already been removing immunity from agents who have just been engaged in fraud on travel orders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30228	The answer of the respected representative Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30229	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Panenic, with the majority of your exposure, I agree only that abuses will not solve any technical regulations or payment to accounts, not cash or the like. It's a question of consciousness, a question of morality, a question of what people have in them or don't have. However, we are concerned when in such high positions, where people have high wages, where they are members of the supervisory board, where they sit in the chairs, when you boast like this, when they send a message of mistrust. Especially when those same people used to brag in the past. Here's an example for which a person is not sanctioned or politically or morally. So she's been sanctioned. It's a bad message to society, and of course that's why we came to divisions like this. That is why we have come to a great mistrust and aversion of our people towards all political options in Croatia. And that is why we should all be concerned that in our ranks all those who work in any way and in a moral sense harm the Croatian political scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30230	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30231	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Škorić, I agree that these journals should be cleared of the issue. And please clear up this issue of governor of the CNB's diaries along the way. He spends about 500 grand a year on his own. He's only on the Committee for Conflict of Interest. So what's the DORH waiting for? Give him some consistency, and ask him for these journals and travel expenses. Ask your director for the State Agency for Deposit Insurance, she goes to Trinidad and Tobago. It's a road that costs 20, 30 thousand kuna and her mandate expired almost a year ago. Ask the Minister of Finance to look at some of that travel expenses. And when you mention attacks on Minister Barisic, who was initiated by Vlatko Silobrcic, who is a member of the party's chairmanship, has been smart. Tell me how it is possible for your Deputy Prime Minister Dalic to finance a SMETNO party in which the presidency of Silobrcic is therefore being attacked by Minister Barisic. So do you say whether Minister Barisic attacks Vlatko Silobrčić or Minister Dalic? Because if she's funding Minister Silobrčić, she's basically in charge of him, which means you attacked yourself. So you asked Zagar, your prime minister, whether he is power or opposition, so now you answer whether Minister Dalic is ruling or opposition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30232	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30233	Thank you very much. Well, here's a well-respected colleague of Bunjac, he would point out that HDZ isn't a BOOK or an investigative body, we didn't set up Cvitan or anyone, we know who set it up. Let them do their job. However, please do not cloud this topic today and put yourself in the context of defence of something that cannot be defended. We understand your position, perhaps the Croatian public is not. You've settled in, you've chosen a side, and that's why you're performing from the position of a lawyer, including events like this that can't be defended.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30234	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Škorić, first of all, made it very clear to the SDP that he or she is in the interest that this case is clear to all the representatives here and to all the parties and to the public, of course, and the public is most interested in what happened here and we are absolutely into it. What we're not is that you're standing here like you know everything about this case, and you don't know anything, you don't know anything. Let a man tell his defense there to defend himself, a lot of your colleagues today gave such statements both by the Parliament and by the Mandate-Immunity Commission that people believe him to be innocent, not to use and vulture here over that situation and try to say something about something you don't know. Let this situation be resolved, let's see what happened here, and then we'll be able to talk about it in a metric and relevant way. On the other hand, I can say once again that the SDP is in the interest of the situation being examined as soon as possible, to get rid of it, to finally all the facts of the institution and to know after that what really happened. This way to inform the public and say things you don't know, which you can only assume and take a stand, I think it's at least incorrect, and I said something more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30236	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30237	Dear Mr. Maras, you obviously know what I don't. If you know that you should say it where you should say it. But you obviously know about the trip, you used the journals, you went to America. On the other hand, we have not used these trips, and we have no reason to account for anyone in this regard. And you've had plenty of time to fight, stop and put yourself in a position not to discuss it today. You haven't denied anything in any part of it that I've brought out here. And I'm not judging anyone in advance, I'm not calling anyone in advance, I'm just talking about what the competent state institutions have done. So here's what you can tell the institutions and make their jobs easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30238	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Škorić. Are you witnessing the last two months of HDZ ratings growth or do you know why? I'll tell you, the very successful work of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government, but it's not just that. A prominent local leader of the SDP tells me something like this, let's let my Maras speak when he tells you the ratings are growing. And I think I'm voting for you. You know why I said this? Mr. Maras, yesterday you were so burned up here, so it was here with gestures of hands, and today so humble and humble. Men of the virtues of man, the quality of man is not exalted in good, and in evil he is not humbled. Always be a man. Oh, yeah, one more thing, I got a minute. "Nothing will force me to stop loving justice, nothing will force me to stop hating injustice, and in love with my Croatian people I will not give myself up from anyone" blessed Aloysia Stepinac. Good luck, Stepinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30240	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative, Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30241	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boban. So I believe that is also one of the elements why we suffered yesterday's attacks precisely the growth of the Croatian government's ratings, the growth of HDZ ratings and the terrible fall of the SDP. In this case, however, it is not alarming that this was done by Tomislav Saucha as parliamentary representative today, but by the former head of the Croatian Prime Minister's Office. Well, it's not 500 thousand kunas, it's a bag of money, it's black funds. You accused us of black funds, what did you do with that money? Is it possible that this money was financed by Alex Brown?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30242	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30243	My colleague Škorić, first of all, must not be liquefied, this is the first, as colleagues on the other hand do in principle. But the fact that in Croatia, the state is here on this example can be seen, at local levels, at the top of the government, so according to local levels, how much money leaks through the fingers is not transparent. And the fact is that we have a case that's also going through our fingers, my colleague Panenic was talking today, $40 million sister company, INA's sister company. And now we still have Jozo Petrovic, who was on the board of directors, later he was at MOL on the loose. I don't like it, but the fact is that the numerous were supposed to be in jail. So today we have halls built that serve no one. We have state audits and state audit reports, billions, we're all the same, no crime, no party, no religion, no nation. It's a crime. The workers of the smuggling from your Split or the workers of the Dalmatian girl from my Sinj certainly argue about how much the HDZ government, the SDPs took, they don't care. They want to know where the criminals are, where's the money from the '91 guns. The year that was meant for the defense of the Cetin area. The system's not working. What's going on? When someone falls out of power, only then are questions raised. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] The system must function, not in principle, on the principles of various consultants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30244	Thank you. Responsible representative Petar Škorić answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30245	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bull. You are known as a crime fighter, as a person who points to numerous deviations in Croatian society, but we are all responsible for a publicly spoken word here. This isn't about any liquefying, it's about the findings, the competent state body, the state's attorney's office has filed a request to this high-level house for the removal of immunity. We discuss it, we do not engage in mud and we cannot banish in the same way, every crime is a crime and reduce it when we have an event here and here that comes from the highest level of government, from the level of the Office of the President of the Croatian Government. We can imagine what is just happening, or what is happening at lower levels when it happens at that level. And also when you mention it, I see that you are returning to some events related to HDZ, then it would be correct for you to open up examples from the case of Saba, Mercelica, Vlahusic further that I do not list.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30246	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30247	Thank you, Your Honor. As the debate goes on, we all get a wider picture, and I agree with the HDZ gentleman that he said that Tomislav Sauche's position was 'let's say in a way spectacular, says the head of the Government's Office. And yes, he was strong, let's say relatively high in that government hierarchy. However, the amount for which he is transferred is not spectacular in his nature. You have, for example, a spectacular amount of 500 million euros, which is clouded by a wastewater purifier in Zagreb. So the state audit itself said that it was financed in any way except by this certain contract of the city of Zagreb with that German firm. This purifier would come 500m euros less, 500m euros compared to 500 000 kuna, that's the difference between the sky and the country, it means approximately 4.5m euros. billions of kuna, i.e. 600 million euros, respectively. That amount on the purifier is clouded. So these big cases don't touch, and as far as I'm concerned, there's no indication that they'll be touched. It's always done, so it's trying to show something as a spectacle and basically it's done for me, unfortunately it presents for the public because people aren't even going to condemn Mr. Sauch to getting trust in the institutions. I suppose if Mr. Saucha took 500 million he wouldn't be able to remove his immunity today, he took 500 grand and that's his fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30248	Thank you. The next replica is an esteemed representative. I'm sorry about Peter Skoric's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30249	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pernar, it's very worrying that today everything is relative to you, not today, but yesterday. You are, on the other hand, demeaning 500 thousand kuna, and on the other hand, you mention hypocritical people who dig through buckets, who collect PVC packaging, who live from it. I'd like to remind you that 500 thousand kuna is 120 and some cashier's pay in Konzum, 145 salaries, so it's 12 years of life, 12 years of remuneration for someone's workers' wages. Therefore, do not deceive the Croatian public in this way especially when you do not hesitate to touch the poorest who care about every kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30250	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Felak will have the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30251	Dear colleague Škorić, my replica goes one way, you mentioned the figures from the audit findings that speak of 308 thousand kunas suspected by Mr Sauch, but from the request of the State's Attorney's Office, it is much greater. It is said of 540 thousand, 522 kuna and 1360 euros. It's almost double the amount and they're still doing reconnaissances, investigations for some periods earlier, so the question is whether that's the final amount. Mr. Saucha is suspected of having done so as the head of the Office of the Prime Minister which is an even worse thing. So I'm not going to say that in any function of alienating that money, I'm speaking conditionally, and I don't want to judge anyone, and I don't want to gloat on anyone. But that also points to one more thing. As Prime Minister, did the Prime Minister himself know of such work or did he not know? And that should be determined by me in these investigative actions. Also, you stated yourself that Mr. Saucha had mentioned that it was not pleasant to come to the front page of the newspaper. Well, Mr. Saucha was already on the front page of the newspaper when the ski queen went into conflict with the cops. You yourself said that he was punished for it. So here's this dead-end atmosphere here in the House is talking about how very, that this is a very unpleasant topic especially for the one that has so far called all of us for this and that, and today we're called not to vulture and that of the man who, by quote, is actually building his political career in this House. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30252	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Peter Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30253	You are right, I have not read the report and the request of the State Attorney's Office that came, but I have used the report, the official report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has been delivered to the DORH since 19 October 2016, where the end of that report says: "After the trip, advisers reported to the Office of the Prime Minister on the official travels carried out in order to inform and advise the Prime Minister." Therefore, the Prime Minister knew all this. If anything was done behind his back, I can't talk about it. Of course the amount is far greater, and basically an investigation that will be launched will determine what it is at last, because the question is whether it will remain on only 540 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30254	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30255	Thank you very much. I did not speak here yesterday about the party's ethical court in the Croatian Parliament, which today decided not to work, although many yesterday offered to join them in the party court. I haven't said here many times that I don't care about those who get caught by the judiciary, because their fate is certainly not difficult and is not equal to those who don't reach it. And I've always been worried about talking about a lot of affairs, but that these affairs never end. You just found them interesting. The fact is that the SDP hit the floor with its honest nose this morning, and that's how we see it from the next facts because yesterday, all day, they called MOST that he hadn't gone public about the labels imposed by one minister. Look at the light, from what voice you hear it isn't. Out of a hundred votes, there's no vote today. Why? Because they always chose morale for themselves as something that was their own, and the mistakes of the individuals were overpouring to the party, and today they realized that only humans were wrong and that the mistake was only human and it doesn't suit them to spill over to their party. He says once, our colleague in the Parliament, it's our turn to knock. We don't have to knock today at HDZ. Gentlemen of the SDP, you nailed yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30256	The answer of the respected representative Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30257	So, respected counterpart Boris, of course, that the institutions of the rule of law, the courts, all the bodies who prosecute him are primarily in their jurisdiction and that this is not about a party court, and I think that a party court in a moral sense should exist in every political party in Croatia. And then these cases wouldn't even come to the State's Attorney's Office and the competent institutions, and I'm going to confirm that by any other event. The scandal in the Croatian government, the wife of Milanovic's cabinet, received a job from PLINACRO. So we all know who it's about. After that, the chief of staff offered to resign. But Milanovic said I won't accept it. She was given not to harm the government's reputation, but the government's reputation was neither touched nor touched. Can you imagine? He said the disputed contract signed between PLINACRO and his chairman's wife's company was specifically sought by the chairman of the PLINACRO Supervisory Board, Ivo Smrić. And Ivo Smocic is a former member of the Croatian Communist Union at the end of the 1980s, and he was also an opponent of Ivica Racanu as chairman of the Central Committee of the Communists, a professor at the Faculty of Economics and a member of the SDP. Of course, nothing is disputed for Milanovic. He says my conscience is as clean as my colleague. He noted that Ivo Smrić was his choice as director and that it was still his choice. If he wanted a simple person with experience, age, credibility that he could do that job, that there were no objections, they're gone now. He is my choice, I take responsibility for it and also for him, Milanovic says. And of course, when a party court like this determines the course of course, there is a process. If in the beginning, if things like this had been sanctioned then we wouldn't have gotten to the courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30258	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this report, and we will vote when the conditions are met, i.e. 12 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30259	The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant the authorisation for the deprivation of liberty, the determination of detention of the investigating prison and the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Sauche of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. First of all, I am voting on the motion for a decision which reads: "Acquittal for the deprivation of freedom, the determination of detention of an investigative prison against Tomislav Saucha is granted to representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. CUS48/17 of 9 February 2017 sent by DORH Act No. CRDO192/2017 of 9 February 2017 on grounds of suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed to abuse of positions and powers referred to in Article 291(2) in connection with paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penal Code." Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the 135 votes are in favour, without abstentions and 1 against decisions made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Secondly, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to be approved for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Saucha in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. CUS48/17 of 9 February 2017 sent by DORH Act No. CRDO192/2017 of 9 February 2017 on grounds of suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed to abuse of positions and powers referred to in Article 291(2) in connection with paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penal Code." Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, most of the 134 votes voted in favour, without abstention and with one against, we have made a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the continuation of criminal proceedings against Nikola Grumoje of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision which reads: "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to proceed with the criminal proceedings pending before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb is denied, business number 20K69/16-26 against MP Nikola Grumoje on the case of private prosecutor Ranko Ostojsic for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penal Code/11." Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that by the majority of the votes of 130 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and no votes, we have decided that it was proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Mare Kristic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision, which reads: "In the course of the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against the representative, Mara Christic, at the request of the injured, as the subsidiary prosecutor, Joza Ostojic, in the case of K50/2015, is denied. which is led before the Municipal Court of Dubrovnik for the offence against personal freedom, the threat referred to in Article 129(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Criminal law in connection with Article 38 of the same law." Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that a unanimous decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission with 132 votes in favour. The next item is the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report on the start of the term of office of MP Zoran Milanovic. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the stay of the representative's term of office, which reads: "On 1 March 2017, the stay of MP Zoran Milanovic's seat begins." Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, by a majority of 134 votes, we have voted in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next item is the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30261	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 14th session held on 17 February 2017, colleagues and colleagues of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief Draženko Pandek to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ranko Ostojić, representative in the Croatian Parliament for the crime of libel referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Ranko Ostojić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: during the term of its term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against Representative Rank Ostojić, by the representative of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Drazenko Pandek of Sesveda on 6 February 2017 in the Municipal Court of Sesvet, for the criminal offence referred to in Article 149(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Penalty law. The explanation is clear, it's a private lawsuit and we've taken the same attitude as boredom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30262	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 102 votes in favour, with no abstentions and 2 against decisions taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. That's what we do today's work. The session continues on Wednesday 1 March at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act with the final draft law. Thank you. Session adjourned at 16.35 p.m. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30264	Thank you, Mr. President. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 15th session held on 10 March 2017 the proposal of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia for the appointment of deputy representative Zoran Milanovic, who was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 7 March 2017. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate was the basis of Article 14 of Representative Zoran Milanovic. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 1 March 2017, that there are no candidates with won preferential votes and that the Social Democratic Party of Croatia is in line with Article 42(3). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Allen Prelec as deputy representative. This meets the law lays down the conditions for the start of acting as deputy deputy representative of Allen Prelec. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the start of acting as deputy representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30265	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the esteemed MPs to vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 116 votes are in favour, with no abstentions and one against decisions made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Since MPs Arsen Bauk and MP Branko Bačić requested the opportunity to speak for five minutes, what I must ask since you have the opportunity to request a break in order to get it. Representative Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30266	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30267	Congratulations to the representative. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30268	Now, we'd like to move to the Mandate-Immunity Commission Report, so I'd like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Zarko Tušek, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 16th session held on 15 March 2017, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief Ante Kulusic to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Klarin, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Ivan Klarin is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and is based on articles 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. Without discussion, the committee is based on Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the following decision be denied, during the term of its term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Klarin, at the request of the attorney of private prosecutor Ante Kulusic, following an action brought on 29 June 2015 to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal offence referred to in Article 149(2). The Penal Code and I remain in my practice so far that in the case of private lawsuits, no immunity can be lifted from the representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30270	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30271	I'll be very brief. Dear Mr Vice President, we will vote for this report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. However, we have met the Mandate Commission and I would like to meet the plenary session that we demand a change of practice regarding the removal of immunity at the request of the State's Attorney's Office. That's what this report says, so that's why we're saying it now. Here's what we want to introduce you to, and we're going to vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30272	Okay, thank you very much. That concludes the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in favour of that decision? 114 votes for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a unanimous decision has been made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. That's what we're gonna end up with today... Dear colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30273	Mr. Vice President, please from you or from professional services one explanation. You mentioned the name of a club that has 4 representatives of which 2 are independent, and you mentioned 3 parties, i.e. it is specifically called the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club. There are no more members of the Rada Party and solidarity in that club, so I would ask that the name of the club be established in a business manner by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30274	Okay. That's what we're going to check, professional services are going to check it out. We will continue with the work of this session on Wednesday 22 March with the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 78. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 12.40 hours. The following is the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 17th session held on 23 March 2017 the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Marija Hrebac from Karlovac, Nancy Marin from Samobor, Vedarana Sharec from Sibenik, and Jadranska banka d.d. Sibenik sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against the doctor of science Branimir Bunjc, representative in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. Mr Branimir Bunjac is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and is based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it cannot be initiated, nor a criminal procedure can be conducted. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 6 votes for and 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament proposes the adoption of the following decision: During the term of the parliamentary term, the approval for the launch of the criminal proceedings against Representative Vladimir Bunjc is denied at the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Marija Hrebac, Nensi Marin, Vedrana Sarić, and Jadranska Banka d.d. On 17 and 20 March 2017, Sibenik filed a complaint to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal offence of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Explanation. The Commission took a principled position that, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, it is necessary to propose, at the request of the Croatian Parliament, an authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings as well as a court which conducts the procedure in order to enable the Constitution and the law to carry out the judicial, or judicial authority independently under the Constitution and law. However, in the case of private prosecutors, the Commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament, as so far, to deny the authorisation to launch, or conduct, a criminal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30277	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. He appeared on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. I don't see him here. He's losing his word. There are no other applications. I therefore conclude the debate and vote on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Please vote. 116 votes for, no abstentions and 1 against, I find that the majority of the votes have been decided by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30278	And we're moving on to the next point. It is - A report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mr. Žarko Tušek to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30279	At the 18th session held on 13 April 2017, the Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime from 10 April 2017 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia from 10 April 2017 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Tomislav Sauche of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed two crimes of abuse of the position of power referred to in Article 291(1). The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Penalty law. Tomislav Saucha is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 5 votes in favour of and 3 votes against the Croatian Parliament's proposal for the adoption of the next decision "Approving for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Saucha of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the DORH on 10 April 2017, shall be sent through the DORH of 10 April 2017 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed two crimes of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(1) of the Treaty of 10 April 2017. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Penalty law. In this case, but most of the votes, not unanimously the Mandate-Immunity Commission has stuck to the practice so far that, in the case of a request by the DORH or a court, it is authorised to initiate a criminal proceedings against a representative who has representative immunity in this case, the representative of Tomislav Saucha. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30280	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Living Wall and the SNAGA representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30281	Honorable MPs, fellow respected. For the first time, I suspected the DORH independence of the DORH when the famous graphite charge arrived, so that was what the pattern of this size was supposed to be, two such graphite whose total damage is supposed to be 30 kuna if you're looking at the services of some work, so that's not even an hour but let's just say that eight hours at the student center is the minimum hour for one day's work, that's 160 kuna in essence and a little color and water. And I wondered then if the lady who works at the MIP who's employed who's an employee of the Parliament had ever seen such an indictment in her life. I didn't. And I'm telling her the whole of Dalmatia graphics by HDZ is never a single HDZ man that's why he hasn't been processed. And all of this later came to my official meeting with the Ambassador of Belarus in Vienna and is also a representative of the OSCE and we touched on the issues of human rights and freedoms in Croatia, I said I was being prosecuted for graphite in Croatia. And she told me about the graphite, I say yes, and the sentence is up to two years in prison for it. She tells me, Ivana, she tells me in Belarus if someone writes graphite, say, against Lukashenko for vandalism as damages to other people's property go to court, judge them there, and the press comes. These are trials because of graphite are a spectacle, an attraction, and then the EU to which Croatia belongs says it is wrong to judge people because of graphite, they say it is a pressure on freedom of opinion, expression, limited art, etc. But she says to me at the same time in the EU in the parliament of a member is being tried by a representative for graphitery, imagine what hypocrisy it is. So Croatia, for example, condemns the persecution of someone in Syria who goes to prison for, say, writing graphs against Bashar al-Assad, and at the same time the Croatian state processes its own representative and threatens to punish him for up to two years in prison. It's scary. And she says I can't believe it. It's possible, I swear to you, I've experienced it. She didn't believe me at first, so she asked me three times if I was sure. And then Mr. Sauch came along with his story and team of journals, and now the first thing that got into my eye was a match for the moment of debate about Minister Barisic and a request for his detention. I, as a representative in the Assembly, got the impression that the aim of the indictment was to draw attention from the debate on Barisic. And it really happened, the next day no one was interested in Barisic Pavo but was interested in Saucha Tomislav. And that the indictment was strange to testify at what speed everything was going on. So let's say for some let's say a relatively small amount for the state half a million kuna, within a few days literally a man from the moment he signed the art of art until the moment he ended up in prison everything happened. And more interestingly, Prime Minister Plenkovic is calling at the government of State's Attorney Cvitan at the time. Be careful when the affair with Agrokora broke, when it was discovered that the boss was issuing bonds without cover, that he had 50 billion kunas and more, it was almost half of the Croatian budget that had no place to go back, that he had been cheating on anyone who could cheat, then Prime Minister Plenkovic did not invite Mr. Cvitan to the government and said what you were doing on this issue. Don't just tell me it's some clerk in Agrokor who's responsible for the bonds without covering that it's not like Ivica Todoric. And so in the case of Agrokor where it was a minimum of 50 billion kuna, there is no Prime Minister calling Dinka Cvitana on Mark's square, but in the case of Mr. Sauche for 500 thousand kuna coming Mr. Cvitan making statements and be careful what Plenkovic says, don't just happen to think that some secretary is responsible, alleging that he is guilty of exactly Tomislav Sach. Still as the investigation took place, there were more details that hadn't been seen by the state's attorney's office than I should've done when I went to investigate, he realized, hey, so these were stealing on the diaries and after I wasn't there anymore. And today, the crown witness against him, the secretary and herself under investigation, and one step away from the indictment and has been transferred from the government for that very reason. And remember, the prime minister was saying, don't just say that by chance the secretary is responsible for all of this. So what happens next? What's going on next? It's very simple for Mr. Sauche to sign, but it's two printed letters. And says the expert, yesterday was a huge headline, all the media reported it. Be careful which detail, that all of Sauch's signatures are identical to each other. And the natural variation is in the signature, each of us when it's signed, each of our signatures is going to be a little different. Now, you all know, every time it's signed, it's hard for someone to tell you to copy the signature you signed a week ago, the question is, would you be able to copy it and all of Sauch's signatures are identical to each other? And the expert says, the expert says it's obvious that those signatures, if they hadn't been written, were signed by Tomislav Souch. And now what's going on? The DORH instead of realizing that it entered a cloudy political game, and it is clearly a cloudy political game, the DORH means admits that it has not thoroughly conducted the investigation, be careful in which way, by suddenly saying, and there are some more controversial diaries. If the investigation had been thoroughly conducted, would the DORH suddenly see all the controversial diaries? I would. It would simply take the whole material, studioically, mind the thought, studioically analyze it all, and then make one request for an investigation. However, the investigation was politically motivated, ad hoc on haste and therefore there are still those diaries that were not included in the first request. And the DORH instead of seeing that it's a strange game, or they know it's a strange game, but instead of overlapping their ears, they say we're looking for a new removal of immunity for Sauch. My colleagues from SDP, I told them back then, this Saucho thing, this pace, the speed, the search for detention, I said this isn't a legal process, this is political surgery. And I called on the DORH to deal with real crime in Agrokor. And the investigation would probably never have started if Bozo Petrov hadn't filed a criminal complaint. Imagine what a sad fact it was that the president of the parliament had to file criminal charges to let him know, be careful to let the DORHU know that Mr Todorovic no longer has political protection. So it wasn't until that moment that the DORH went into investigation. And what happened to me? Says the Pernar investigation takes pictures with children by schools, says DORH, says Cvitan we are conducting an investigation. And there's a situation of corporation with 60,000 employees collapsing like a map tower. Cvitan didn't show up in front of the press right now, and he said we're conducting an investigation. No, he was waiting. And why was he waiting? Because his son is the manager of the consummation. Well, this Todoric has captured whoever he can. And the former Governor of Rohatinski has been incarcerated. Our minister, Maric, was also his manager after all. And that's the team. And now what's going on? It is obvious that there are certain companies such as Agrokor that are outside the law, which operate on the edge or outside the law, which are protected from all state institutions. And instead of the state's attorney's office dealing with this type of crime, it means serious crime that's going to get thousands of people killed, the state's attorney's office expeditively, lightningly, ad hoc, sent to a colleague named Sauch. You know, when you get to jail, the first thing they do, or in custody, is they take your shoelaces off like you don't hang yourself. And when I led the protests against HDZ, they took my shoelaces off every time. And I've been interned so often in that Oran detention facility that in the end, I bought a pair of shoes on my chin that I don't have to take off and take back my shoelaces. And now not only that, but when you go to Remetinec you see an anal opening, it's the whole procedure, it's like that Rambo movie in America when in the police, when they shower it, like that. And now what's going on, I knew what Sauchu was waiting for, I told the people not your own colleague, don't do it to him, because tomorrow you could take your shoelaces off. However, my appeals did not bear fruit. And I was the only one who voted against his removal of immunity. And I am very pleased that the SDP has opened its eyes and now realizes that the purpose of this subsequent slide investigation that the DORH is doing is not really knowing the actual state of play but rather the continuation of the political games that Cvitan is involved in just to continue his mandate. And I'll tell you one more thing, I've asked Cvitana, O.K., here, we have one criminal record against Sauche, one object, and now a quick man is going to jail. I ask how it has not yet begun any trial for Milan Bandic, who has over 200 criminal charges, etc. And that, cases are over 20 years old, since 2000, when he signed a harmful contract to build water purifiers. You know what Cvitan said to me? He says, listen, Ivane the Great, Bandic is a supernatural creature, a supernatural creature. And my colleague Sauch is not a supernatural creature, so come on, old man, take your bag and bye bye bye. And what do I mean by that? Unfortunately, the DORH doesn't deal with large-scale crime, but catch one detail, catch someone as a suspect, like here we have him, now we're gonna catch them and end up a dead end. Turns out it wasn't the man's fault in the end. And for this reason, as I did last time, I will oppose the request to remove the immunity of my colleague, Sauchi, and I urge all my colleagues from my representative's club not to participate in this pre-election circus directed by the attorney general. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30282	You're all a little late for the replicas, but I'll take it. So, the first replica representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30283	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pernar, you have now essentially said one very important fact, which is that the laws in Croatia apply selectively, that one man is subject to one law, one rule, another man is subject to other laws, other rules. As recently mentioned well for 16000 kuna, a poor woman is thrown out of her apartment. For 16 billion kuna, the tycoon is left to live in a castle. And it's really not a good message, because I can really wonder if your life is worth more than mine, or if my life is worth more than yours? Did we in the 21st century when we live in some highly developed technology society come to a level that we don't really know humanity anymore, that we don't know some sort of elemental natural legality anymore? Mr. Dinko Cvitan has lost all credibility and for this reason I support your opposition to his findings. Indeed, there is no man in Croatia, and most regrettable among the lawyers who have a good opinion of the state's attorney. They are almost in agreement that the previous state attorney was very weak in his work, and that his successor is currently only his pale copy. Is there therefore a higher score than that which for someone to express his own profession. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30284	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30285	Thank you. Well, yes, sir. The observations are obvious, but what's interesting, there's that page on Facebook... HDZ's fighting corruption, that weird moment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I remember as today when Prime Minister Plenkovic brought in a state attorney at the first request and as we will fight corruption, and he is the president of a political party who is rightly sentenced to get out of the state budget, i.e. Unauthorizedly, she was sentenced to draw 22 million kuna. And then, of course, constitutionally, the Supreme Court falls all judgments against both Sanader and HDZ. And to them, Mr. Sanader was innocent until proven otherwise. So it's only the moment when it's really let's say it's inadmissiblely found guilty. Only then did he actually find himself in trouble. Until in Mr. Sauche's case, legal practice changed, and suddenly a man is guilty until he proves he's innocent. And how will they prove he's innocent? Hold all the institutions, hold the media. I used to get the same at first what I was wondering, what so is that possible? Is that possible? Because when I asked a colleague of Saucha's over there Fred Matic, I asked him, so is it possible that he wasn't really guilty? You know what Fred Matic told me? Veli Ivane prisons are full of innocent people. That's what he told me. Because I was wondering how it was possible for a man to be in custody without being guilty? Veli Ivane prisons are full of innocent people. It's our judiciary, and many of the culprits are at large and laughing, and the worst of them is the one who has the address on Himper 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30286	Representative Zarko Tušek reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30287	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Pernar, I am indeed having this debate in the case of my colleague Saucha, for the second time here, truly human and in the context of some kind of leadership, i.e. I have tried to exclude myself from any political evaluations, especially some personal qualifications towards a colleague who has found himself in a very complex, legal and human and personal situation. And indeed, I want to believe that he is innocent and I really want to believe that institutions are judicial, i.e. that he will be able to prove his innocence to the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia. What I would like to say is that, unfortunately, at the last session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, we have changed our practice, i.e. The position of the SDP club went to the point that the practice that was so far no longer exists. Of course there will be room and time to discuss it too, but I would like to refer to this part of you where you are actually giving a political assessment of the work of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia which I actually have no knowledge of. These are your personal assessments and where you put this whole case in line with the party I belong, and that doesn't seem particularly correct from your position. Because if you have now articulated that the price of the current remainder of the state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia, this process, and in some way you have tried to communicate through this debate, then I could ask you as incorrectly what was the price of his arrival as the chief state attorney since he was appointed by the parliamentary majority who today is a parliamentary minority? I ask you not to use such qualifications so simply, because in a way, you are in fact fully derivating the position of the attorney general, and in this case, You tie her to the work of the party that I belong to, and we have absolutely nothing to do with his arrival and his work. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] That's all I wanted to say. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30288	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30289	Here's Mr. Dear Tusek, I'm asking you honestly that the state's attorney was really impartial and correct in the Sauch case, if he were, let's start assuming he was, would you immediately see all the issues or would you find out later because you know what might happen tomorrow? He can tell the DORH tomorrow we found another warrant, we're asking that the MIP session meet again because that's what happened right now. They had no idea a hundred warrants then five more we have a disputed warrant. What, and how come they didn't see all those warrants right away? So the investigation was conducted, or pre-examinations were conducted very sloppyly. And if they had been thoroughly conducted, we would have taken off our immunity first in a set for all the warrants, not for them to pull new ones out of the hat afterwards. The other thing is, if the chief state attorney hadn't politicised the DORH Institute and privatised it for himself, would the request to send one agent to prison on the day of Barisic's request for his shift and debate. And ask yourself one more question, who are the people of the Croatian Parliament who, immediately after the removal of immunity, ended up in custody or in prison? You know who? Branimir Glavas, who was convicted and eventually convicted, was again convicted of torture and murder of civilians and Ivo Sanader, who was the one for millions of embezzlements. So we pushed our colleague Sauch together into this elite circle of people. Ask yourself if he's even guilty, if he really belongs to such a team, even if he's guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30290	Thank you. Representative Nenad Stazic reported for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30291	I thank the President of the Parliament. I will begin, and I hope to continue in principle, which is representative immunity, when it is introduced and why it exists. The parliamentary immunity was introduced long ago to protect parliamentarians from their will to the king. And later he was detained to protect parliamentarian from his will to the executive authority. Is he the privilege of a representative, the privilege of a representative? No, I don't. Does he protect counsel from prosecution? Not at all, persecution will be carried out when parliamentary immunity passes, or when his term of office expires. Therefore, no one protects anyone and no one is privileged. But is there reasonable doubt that political persecution, purely theoretically, can be carried out over the representative? It's possible. Why is she possible? Because of the choice of the attorney general. He is elected in parliament on the government's proposal, which means he is elected by the parliamentary majority. And we can assume that such a chosen chief state attorney will carry out the will of such a parliamentary majority. To be clear right now, I'm here to say I don't mean Mr. Cwitan, I don't. Finally, Mr Cvitan was elected by the will of the HDZ and the will of the SDP of the main parties, and when Mr Bajic was elected by the Reverend, Mr Cvitan was his first deputy. So I speak here in principle, abstracting from names and last names. Is it our duty to see that fact, and I think it is, and when we face a case like this, to consider our practice so far. And our practice so far I realized was wrong. It was a custom and it was such a practice that immunity was never taken off at the request of a private person on a private suit but that it was always not critically removed at the request of the State's Attorney's office. I think we should reconsider that practice. Nothing will happen if the prosecution is carried out after the term of office, but nothing. We've had the process for 20 years, so what happens? Nothing. So what happens here if it starts four years later? And if the first day of the term of office requires the removal of immunity, nothing will happen, but we will reject one possibility, and in the end, if you want to protect the attorney-in-law to make such demands and bring his position or his objectivity into question. The state's attorney must know he can make a request and will be rejected, as long as the term of office is held except for criminal offences for which the representative has been found in the execution and for which a sentence of more than five years is foreseen. And that means if the MP killed him, they found him with a gun in his smoking hand. I mean, then. But for this second thing, we have to do our own practice so far, I think we're thinking about it again, and we've discussed it at the SDP club and why we've first allowed the persecution of Sauche, the prosecution and detention for the first time. Saucha was detained because the argument was either that he would influence or that he could influence witnesses. After Saucha's knowledge that the practice was continued and when he had already left, the state's attorney did not request detention for a person the same state's attorney's office claims to have worked with Saucho together. And who could have affected the witnesses, Sach, who was no longer in the system or the secretary who remained in the system, so what's more logical? I, we can't judge here, I don't know what happened and I don't want to judge about it. But I don't want to expose Sauch as my colleague to a possible chic executive or to those who would like to see the executive authority. I think we made a mistake in the Pernar case, and that's what I was saying. That's where I was talking from. Because the state's attorney's office, not under Cwitan, not under Bajic, under some others, long ago made such a failure to persecute people who, criminals who have confessed, Alexander Rabbit's murder because they were questioned without a lawyer's presence, so the court had to let them go later. Twice you can't be tried in the same court and people are free. I'd dare say a deliberate mistake by the state's attorney's office because I can't believe they were so ignorant back then. Well, now the 11-year-old girl's killer is free and the Pernar who wrote the graphite in front of him is being prosecuted. I wasn't up for it, I was talking like that, I'm talking again today. I think we made a mistake in the case of fellow Culei, we made the same mistake. And we shouldn't have removed his immunity, and I'm aware of that today. Mr. Culey was breaking a bilingual record, it's vandalism which, I'm sick of but slowly, but slowly, so there will be opportunities for Culeu to be tried for it. Is that why we had to take off his immunity? Culej doesn't break now, these records are still there, Culej doesn't break them, he broke them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, they didn't break them, because they broke them out because the government was Zoran Milanovic, so it's clear, and they wanted their favorites to come, and that's why Culej broke it. And he would have broken it all until HDZ put it on the list and come to the Parliament. And now that he's in the Parliament what he's about to break, it's stupid to kick his ass. Well, then I'm up for us to see it as an intelligent person to see it and not to let our fellow Culei go now, be patient, be patient with that state's attorney's office for another three years. The HDZ will certainly not put it on the list anymore, so it will be, he will not win the term of office, so there will be opportunities for him to be tried as well. So let me get this straight. I call on you all to be completely principled, completely principled, I know this may seem very antipathic if one SDP is held up for another SDP and not for someone from another party. But I assure you, I realize we've made a mistake and we've been wrong so far. And I invite you to consider this practice so far, bad and to change it, all together, all together. Yeah, and the state's attorney also knows the state's attorney's office is in vain to ask them to do anything except for crimes for which the sentence has been prevented for over five years. And so we move away from every thought and assume that the state's attorney is working in the political interest of the ruling. He doesn't need that either. He doesn't need that either. It hurts him, it hurts society as a whole. Here, that's my call.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30292	Representative Milanka Opačić asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30293	Thank you, Mr. President. You spoke to Mr. Stazic about the practice, that if the DORH asked, we should review the mandate. Well, I'm just going to remind myself of some names, exclusively politicians we've been removing immunity from, who have been arrested, they've been brought in in handcuffs very theatrically, obviously that the people would be impressed, but we've actually destroyed people's lives. So, for example. We had three court disputes with Polancec, a man was tried for only one, two fell into the water, so the man was innocent, 10 years of his life we destroyed, or rather those who persecuted him at that moment. Berislav Roncevic was also in court for 10 years, freed of all charges. Milan Bandic, you have been speaking here in custody, the trial has not even begun. Marina Lovric Merzel, also a politician who was brought into hand in handcuffs, very theatrically, still has no first court hearing after 3 years. Bojan Sobol, husband of Gordana Sobol political, was released after all the charges, but also for 10 years in court. Ivan Herak, also a former politician who was also led in handcuffs, was also released after court proceedings. And I'm going to remember a doctor who unfortunately died thanks to the persecutions, that's dr. Fired Simic in Rijeka, which was also detained for corruption with handcuffs. And my question is, where's the problem? Does the DORH really do a dirty job? Who is here in the service of politics or the judiciary is so corrupt and so influenced by politics that it is able to behave like this? This is just a small number of people's names and last names that both DORH and the judiciary certainly had a profound impact on their lives and on the lives of their families. And that's why those who do it, maybe this debate of mine is much more for the state of the DORHU, when the report comes, I'm going to do this again, maybe it's really time to think about how and how people are dealing with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30294	Thank you. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30295	All the names you listed, they come from different political groups and from different parties. And that's just proof that what I said was right. Because it's not about protecting one political option. But these theatre detentions and we're asking ourselves, so how do the press know someone's gonna be in custody at 5:00 in the morning? How do they know that without being notified that they're putting cameras in good places in time and they're on duty there? Destroy someone's life, so his kids are watching these theater arrests and his kids are asking him, so dad you're really a thief, so is that true that I have to listen to it on TV? Because you know, because when an anonymous thief is brought in, there's no such thing on TV, it's not on TV, but when a representative is brought in, then all the TVs are there. So, with all our arguments and this human, let's add this human. Why would a representative be more exposed than anyone else? Why? Because then he's not equal to the law, and even if he's a criminal because criminals don't have it, they don't come to the public. So here's my colleague, and I'm using this answer to your replica to really invite everyone to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30296	Representative Gordan Maras has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30297	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, you have touched certain things in your debate and I would say the politicization of certain processes and I will tell you that the DORH is also because people do there, too, are not super mani insensitive to the incentives and the media and the objections and the praises and everything. In a situation where they make a mistake and when that mistake is exposed to a wide circle of people, the public, sometimes condemnation is harder to admit a mistake in this situation. Who will now admit the error and tell Sauche's fault, we haven't examined everything, we should have seen all the travel orders, we should have examined all the circumstances and reached certain conclusions. Who's going to admit a mistake? Well, they're the same there, people. It's hard for them to admit it and it's hard for them to say it. Now will be called of course on the profession, on professionalism and on etc. That works. And that's why you should also see how to deal with situations like this, because now with Sauche with these acts that are speculative, which have continued we have some works that have just been put in place like this to improve the impression of attorneyship towards the public. Here's my impression of the whole situation now. And that's because it's harder to admit a mistake, so I guess everyone sees if all the acts haven't been examined that there's been some mistake. Well, wouldn't it be normal if someone from the D.A.'s office said we didn't examine everything, we didn't check everything, it was wrong, and so on. But we didn't hear that. And that's why we need to discuss certain things. on the following requests and make certain decisions which are not in the [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]] In accordance with the practice so far. [[Mr. Maras!]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30298	Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30299	If that's how fellow Maras says it is, it's worse. If the State's Attorney's Office insists on continuing persecution or even expanding persecution just to justify itself for sloppy work at the beginning and for Saucha's persecution from the very beginning. Because look, from the moment we first removed Sauchi's immunity, we learned different new elements. That's where Saucha was looking for a new graphological art, then from an authorized graphologist. He was found completely indistinguishable from what the State's Attorney's Department obtained at 48 hours, at 24 hours in as many Sacha 180 signatures. In 24 hours. Well, that's the genius. Well, he should be proposed somewhere to be president of the World Witch Association, because it's a shame to camp here if he's so capable of in 24 hours but without a doubt reporting 180 signatures. But we have a different finding now. We have a polygraph that Saucha himself went to because the state's attorney wouldn't put it on a polygraph, and he asked for it. The polygraph isn't proof, but it's an indication, but it's an indication of whether someone's lying or telling the truth. And we've had these two new elements since DORH's last permission to carry out Sauch's persecution, and we don't have the State's Attorney's Office's testimony about it. We don't! So if colleague Maras is still in the game that the State's Attorney's office is just trying to protect itself and justify itself and he won't say if you look at the people, we were wrong, we were working a little fast, we're retreating. We'll see if we can slow the team down. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30300	Thank you. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30301	Thank you. I remember when I asked Mr. Cwitan why the charges against Bozidar Calmeta were filed only now if they knew the same things they knew for five years now. So why wait five years if the knowledge hasn't changed. He had no answer to my question. So in the Calmeta case where the indictment is much more serious and much more difficult, at no point in the investigation or the prosecution was sought by Calmet's incarceration to influence witnesses. And that crew around him weren't harmless people, they were serious numbers and I'd say serious crime puts him on the line. And in the case of Sauche, what we find out today is that there are some warrants, two, three days. I'm looking at Sauche no more between us. How, man? As in one case DORH is expedient, and in the other, nothing, it's been stretching for years, etc. And you know what I'm sorry about? I'm sorry that Mr. Cvitan in the future when he asks for immunity to the MPs, he should sit here as well as the legislators when they are discussing and answering the questions of the MPs. I believe that citizens would have a lot of that to ask him and many answers to hear from him, to see what, how he justifies his sloppy work. And I repeat that the investigation was conducted immediately would have made it clear that it had been messing with these findings all along, not just during the Sauche. And I remember when I said the only problem with Sauchin was that he wasn't the head of the office at Eve Sanader's time because then you'd just tell him that Ivo Sanader told you that and he'd save himself. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30302	Thank you. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30303	My colleague Pernar shouldn't have absolute confidence in our judiciary, but our judiciary didn't deserve anything, but nothing at all. The HDZ youth in Karlovac was savaged, broke half of the Carlovec there, conducted a procedure, you know how it ended? They've gone out of date, they won't be punished, it's HDZ youth, though, so it's neither Saucha nor Ivan Pernar, it's HDZ youth. We'll never know the name of the judge and the judge who conducted this procedure by taking them into oblivion, we won't. But that it had something to do with it being a youth of the HDZ, and that's not what I'm going to be convinced of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30304	Representative Zarko Tušek reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30305	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Stazić, regardless of the ethicality of all these situations and in relation to the representatives of colleagues who have been or have been in a previous assembly or have today been the subject of the Mandate-Immunity Commission only now especially from your position since the Sach case is on the agenda, I still can't say that I disagree with much of your debate. I think she had a head and a tail and she opened up in the metrics of an important topic about the overall operational work of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and we've discussed this and we've already been to the meetings of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. From the position of me as chairman, he went to the appeal not to change the practice of not voting until we agree on a new practice together. I would really like to believe that it is possible to achieve this, perhaps it is one of the directions that you said was to raise the threshold in some way the tolerance of a level of crime that would possibly be, although it is in the jurisdiction of the DORH for which immunity would not be lifted, and for some serious crime, it would automatically remove immunity and allow the DORH to process the whole case at the same time. Perhaps that is the direction in which our debate should go, but it would appeal that if we change practice to change it unanimously and jointly and not to bring the Mandate-Immunity Commission into the situation that it must arbitration and revote the case to the occasion because it really would not be correct. And I would like to believe that we have reached such democratic standards and principles that this would be possible, but noticeing some other cases of particularly individual lawsuits that were not within the authority of the DORH, I did not quite get the impression that we had developed to this extent by democratic standards. There were all kinds of debates until midnight unnecessary even about those people who weren't here who couldn't discuss themselves at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30306	Thank you. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30307	I thank you for this replica. I'm glad you saw the principle of my debate because it really was. I had no intention of objecting to you as chairman of the commission for what you've been doing so far as it's been practice, because it's been practice until now, and if you went to change it on your own, you'd probably have made a mistake. But by Friday, by the time we hold a vote at the plenary session on this issue, we have time to reach a consensus on this. And thank you for the praises you've given me and I truly accept them with gratitude and hope that you will, as chairman of this committee within your club, achieve this practice to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30308	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30309	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. My fellow Striker, if a lie were gold, you'd be the richest man here. As for his young colleague, Sauch, I trust him to be innocent, but let him go to court, and let him prove his innocence there, as many before him, we will be there together. I agree with you when you talk about justice and the DORH because in Croatia we even have published the book "Court and Police Mafia" examples from Croatian courts and court practices that show that organised crime in the judiciary destroys individuals, families, the economy and the state. There are examples of people who complain about their actions in Croatia, but there you talked about by Saucha next to the judiciary and the other one, you talked about me a little bit. You were talking about a charge against me where I'm also falsely accused of breaking Cyrillic plates and you, in that case, when you confirm that lie, lie again. So I wasn't breaking Cyrillic plates, it was performed by some other friends of mine, it was one performance of their form not agreeing with the setting of the same plates. I spoke there, I didn't speak there to enter the Parliament because at that moment it was neither intention nor I knew nor planned nor wanted. You know me very well from Borov Selo when you almost fainted after 45 minutes of my speech, of course from my head, not as some reading pamphlets or repeating one of those same things. The fact that I got 11 thousand votes in my neighborhood tells you about me I'd like you to turn around and find that you can collect so many votes. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Did you all get that much together?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30310	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30311	And HDZ put in no put I'll be here with you or without you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30312	Agent Culey, thank you. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30313	If you're going to be here then you'll certainly be without me and without my vote, but whether you'll be it will be decided by the voters. I don't know what you were doing there, I really don't know. I don't know your indictment I haven't read. I doubt you just said that because there is no verbal delinquent in Croatia and certainly no one would press charges against you if you were just saying and nothing else, you probably did a little something. But I'm not going to get into the measure of things, I'm not concerned with the measure of things. I was here mentioning you, confessing that I was personally wrong because I voted in favour of removing immunity from you. And that's all to be left until your term is up, so when it runs out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30314	Representative Ivan Pernar has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30315	Thank you. I'd like to say that there's one, let's say hypocritical little practice in the House that when you vote on someone's immunity, then the MPs who are saying that Sauch is being sent into custody, say we don't prejudge whether you're guilty or not, like some other fortifications and we're just letting you go into custody, like we're actually not the ones who are actually taking part in the whole farce. This reminded me of Matthew 27.24. "When Pilate saw that he had achieved nothing and that there was an ever greater turmoil, he took water and washed his hands before the people." So Pontius Pilate was essentially going to say, I had nothing to do with this man, that's your Jewish business, you calculate each other. But I remember when I invited my colleagues from the SDP, don't wash your hands of me and let me in on that judiciary, because what if that judiciary gets me, I don't believe in, like Sanader in a positive outcome for myself, etc. Because I know that the indictment is a political structure, and I know that those who judge me are HDZ people, and I know that the blame is in advance, as I would say, decided and that the trial is a reform, that it's only a matter of formalities. That's what I remember when it was Saddam Hussein's trial, when he asked me why, during the trial, why don't you just hang me, why all this. And the judge says, we need to conduct the procedure. And I would like to say that unlike you from the SDP, I will not wash my hands from my colleague Tomislav Saucha, I did not last time, I will not stand by him in this carved process, in this play for the public where the public is entertained by the belief that a war against crime is under way, etc., and in reality, the greatest crime of cheating on suppliers in terms of billions, pushing these regress bonds into their hands, 2,000 businesses, 2,000 suppliers is now at a dive, one foot ahead of the sink. The DORH I see does not seek arrest and investigation for Mr. Ivica Todorovic at all. There's a question of why. So they could grab hold of something right away, arrest him immediately and immediately add some evidence as they did in the Sauche case. So it was ad hoc, first you go into custody, here's a couple of things, then they add up later. Why don't they treat Todorovic like that? And because what they're going to say is for sure, listen, it's a very complex object, there's been a lot of things here, and we, as long as we analyzed it, wanted to create one, to say it, in order to express, one thorough investigation to do and so on. If such a serious measure as detention is required, isn't it the minimum that should be done in thorough pre-examination actions so that they can go to the BOLO, at the time of detention? But as we can see, this Parliament was last time with only one vote against, against mine, for the man who sits on my right to fly into custody, and then in custody, explain to your cellmates that you're not guilty, that they set you up, etc. What I'm afraid of is that we haven't learned from this, and I want to thank my colleague, Nenada Stazic, because he's very good and picturesque in his 9.5-minute presentation, in fact, explained the measure of things. I'm afraid even if all the HDZ people have heard what we're talking about here today, they'll vote unanimously for the expansion of the investigation tomorrow, even though it's a dispute and first investigation and detention, and that's why the second one loses every credibility. Unfortunately, the Croatian judiciary releases the highest level of crime and destroys judgments such as in the case of Ivo Sanader or in the case of Cobankovic, condemns him to a symbolic penalty for peeling potatoes for the damage of 16 million kuna. Imagine the damage of 16 million kuna. A fellow Sauch, assuming he was guilty of half a million kunas. It is simple mathematics, 32 times less damage is placed on the burden of Sauchi than is placed on Mr. Cobankovic. But what happened, Cobankovic as soon as he found himself in a ticklish position that he raised the money he started talking about how he was wearing, i.e. How Fiolić I don't know he wore in a carousel box and money to Sanader, etc., they all started messing around and saying what the DORH wanted to hear. And finally, how did the process end for Evey Sanader? This is a very important detail. Everyone from HDZ caught in any crime he just said so to me, Ivo Sanader. That's what DORH's instructions were. And what happened? All of them were released and all of a sudden all of the defendants became witnesses and all of the guilt, all of the guilt came down to one man, and then this one man was finally freed from guilt, and today he's at large. And what's going on? What's going on? We have a HDZ case convicted together with Sanader and released together with Sanader. It's about making these billions, i.e. Millions of large to go into the curtain, so that none of it will be like a colleague for HDZ youth in Karlovac, and here in the case of the Sauche investigation is expedient. And you know Mr. Sauch that you're not the only man with an expeditional investigation and indictment? I got it, I allegedly committed a crime on a guy in 12 months, and I got the charges already in the second one. So about two months ago, it took them two months to press charges against me for the graphite. I asked Mr. Cwitan why this indictment? What exactly does he want to show that indictment? And he told me saying Ivane told her that if I hadn't asked her to process you, they'd say like Cvitan is afraid of Pernar. And I'm thinking, are you going to be brave on me? Let's process Hansel Todorovic and show him you're brave. Here's if you're so much a man who has balls and who has that manhood in him, etc. However, Mr. Cwitan has no courage and does not have what a man should have to deal with crime. Because if he had our country and our people, they wouldn't be victims of this kind of systematic robbery and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30316	Representative Gordan Maras has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30317	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, you mentioned your case in your debate, and then I had doubts if you remember I was restrained. But if everyone had been restrained, you wouldn't have got your immunity off. So already around your case, I noticed what my colleague Stazic said, and that's what's the rush. So, you're because of political activation, but you said that in some countries, graphites are valued as art. I believe that wasn't the case with you, because two letters, however you write them or draw them, are not. But what's the rush? So that's how you were able to carry out your mandate, and after that mandate, you could also respond. He could have written you a misdemeanor, a punishment or something. I don't believe there's a prison sentence here, although it's crazy that we have such a severe penalty for graphics in the Penal Code. And I'm sure in the future the Parliament will no longer react in this way, although I disagree with Mr. Culei's situation is a little different. There is also political activity in the game, but much more dangerous towards human freedoms, the rights of national minorities. So, it's political activation you can tell from what you said about the fact that there's no breaking boards when HDZ's in power. The plates only break when the SDP is in power. But what is being attacked there is much more valuable and these are the values of human freedoms, or the protection of national minorities. So I wouldn't agree with that if it were Same thing as painting Mr. Pernar. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30318	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30319	Well, Mr. Maras, there's this whole absurd thing about serious crime that's a lot harder and more serious than in the case of Calmeta, like in the case of Cobankovic. And let's say that if Cobankovic got that charity job for what he was being burdened with, then let's say, and in my case, he didn't ask the DORH for me charity work. Maybe I'm not working with the DORH? Maybe I'm not one of those penitent ones that favors their crime personally in a way that accuses others etc. Unfortunately, the DORH does not seem to be an institution whose primary crime-breaking service is the highest level, but unfortunately one institution whose indictments fall even in courts. You had a case to paint the tunnel. The court dropped the charges. He just told the D.R.R.H. this indictment, this we can't do, this isn't even for trial. And in cases where even based on these charges, the question is again, what is the quality of theirs. And when a verdict is reached, the higher courts bring those charges down, or they break the verdicts, and they say it's all sloppy, etc. And I think this is a classic example of a mounted political process. Thank you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30320	Representative Arsen Bauk has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30321	Comrade Pernar, I have already told the Mandate-Immunity Commission that if we were now in a position to vote on your immunity to vote against the removal of immunity and the removal of immunity to Mr Culei. But you started your presentation with one scripture from the Bible, so I will answer another scripture from the Bible. "Until I see on his hands the signs of nails, and put my finger in a place of nails, and put my hands in his side I will not believe." This is the Gospel of John, and then three below says, "Blessed are those who did not see and believed." What shall I say after this? Clearly, therefore, the method of our own skin is one good method to change practice. We are to remind you, remove immunity and vote for custody unanimously with your abstention against good and without great debate. We discussed one thing, two HDZ representatives, something we exchanged the replica, but for the incendiary of the topic that was at the moment it was almost as if there was no debate because the whole day on TV was Big Brother around Sauchi's walking down the Mesnička and away. Now the situation has changed a little bit, not because of it, so not because of what Big Brother was, but because a few days after or a few weeks after we learned the facts that shed an important different light on the work of the state's attorney's office in this case. And that is why we have reduced confidence in their demands, and this is the result of this debate and our vote, as well as the review of previous decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30322	Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30323	My colleague Pernar now that you mentioned Mr. Cobankovic, you put a bug in my ear, ah very blasphemy, Cobankovic received a work for the common good as a penitent. He participated in the execution of the crime, confessed to the execution of that crime, a huge sum, but then agreed with the DORH to take all the blame on Sanader and to pull himself out. I wouldn't have thought of that, but now I'm afraid that's possible in the case of Sach and the secretary. And I don't... this lady or Mrs. Zeljko's secretary, allegedly close to HDZ, I don't know if she's close or not as a penitent to drown Sach, not to establish the truth and not to punish the guilty, but to repeat the case of Cobankovic and Sanader. If that's how it is, if it's going in that direction, and then it's even worse than what Maras was saying, then it's a composite, then it's a perfidual game that we especially mustn't allow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30324	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30325	Thank you. I remember when former Prime Minister Milanovic said about the case, this is about the drug modus operandia, so the man literally goes to the end until he gets caught. And why am I saying that? Because happiness in the accident was that the secretary continued to steal after Sauch's departure because the secretary at Saucha said she only forged his signatures and that that's where we left off today we'd have this secretary as a crown witness, and Mr. Sauch as the worst bogeyman and the greatest thief. It's unfortunate that the secretary kept stealing, if she hadn't stopped with Saucho, because the question is, how would this whole farce end in the end? Mr. Saucha can thank her for that. She can thank her for not stopping. And unfortunately, the DORH realizes that it is the same modus operandia and that the time period is manifested indicates in which this modus operandi occurred on one person the DORH performs that person as a crown witness, and the man she testified against is drawn as the main culprit. And apparently, she was switching blame on him to save herself, not because she wanted to cooperate with the DORH so she could say that, that I was stealing because she said that I and I were stealing, so we were stealing together, no. She said she was the only one who was stealing, and I didn't steal anything. It was later seen that the story was completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30326	Time. Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, MP Orsat Milenic reported. Here's my apology. It's not written down, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for giving me your word because I answered the line, but obviously you didn't see me. My colleague Pernar wasn't the SDP who washed my hands the other day. I was asked then to remove my immunity as soon as possible, I was praying and I prayed to a colleague named Bauk to talk to the other club presidents to allow me. You know why I asked that? Because I wanted to end up in Remetic as soon as possible that night because I knew it was just inevitable. And I wanted to save myself at that moment, so I'll admit, I wanted to save myself 48 hours on the Oranics, I wanted to get my hands on those cells. At that moment, that cell was a dream to me. That day for three hours, I was taking my defenses out on UskoK, because I wanted to cooperate because I believed that if I said what was true, they would realize that I wasn't guilty, that they would go on looking for the culprit. But not only has it not been realized, but every effort I've made and every effort I've made later has made it worse for me. Every time I talk, I work in favor of my damage. And now I'm going to have to start keeping my mouth shut and act as sorry as any other defendant. And unfortunately my life will be ruined, my life has been ruined and I have a long-standing battle waiting for me through the courts. That's right. Why? 'Cause those people who do it who point fingers and you're automatically guilty, they don't answer to anyone. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] And that's why this system needs to be changed, it needs to be introduced. Some kind of control. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30328	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30329	I'd like to say, in your case, Mr. Culey, let Sacha prove he's innocent. However, when it comes to Calmeta, then his lady who ran his finances says, there is with us a colleague in the Zadar Parliament, she says, until the court finds him guilty, he is not guilty and that these institutions must prove that he is guilty. So it seems to me that when it comes to HDZ, then everyone is innocent until proven guilty, then they are, then they defend themselves all. But when it comes to you, then all of a sudden they all say, let him, if he's not guilty, let him prove it. So he's not in criminal proceedings on the defendant to prove he's not guilty, he's at the prosecution, or the D.O.R.H. to prove guilty. And that fundamental principle that everyone is innocent until proven guilty was also completely ousted during your procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30330	Representative Orsat Milenic has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30331	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is certainly a pain in the ass, at least for me, I believe for most of you when we need to talk about a fellow sitting there. First of all, I'm convinced that there's not all the politicization here and all that's been said and I'm sure it's not, especially not from us who are in politics, because we're all aware that once we're in power, we're going to be again, so it's turning round and I'm sure no one would ever get into this kind of thing. These days if they existed in Croatia, I am convinced that they are far behind us and that there is no such thing here. And that any insinuation that goes to a fellow sitting there just doesn't stand. I say, before, at the end of the line, we're all too smart together to deal with it. But I have a problem here, and I'm not going to vote to take off my immunity because I kind of feel cheated. So the first time the request came, I not only voted for it, but I also spoke with a very hearty voice and discussed with my colleagues at the club that I should support it because I believed in the principle that when something comes from an authorised prosecutor that we as a Parliament should stand behind it and that we should not engage in the debate and in any way discuss any guilt. And that's something I've been holding on to. I've stuck to the previous cases, and I thought it was a good practice for the Parliament. However, what is happening in this case and, of course, maybe because my colleague Saucha is closer to me, so I got into it more, as one of you would have come in maybe if it was someone else, you're actually questioning what's really going on. And I don't have an answer for that right now. We now if we say yes, if we say yes, we'll actually confirm the thesis that's completely illogical to me and impossible for Saucha to keep the first 100 and something warrant for himself, the money from it and that those, I don't know, 8 or something shared with the secretary. It's in those documents that I can't believe, it's life-long illogical, I'm not going to raise my hand for it, because it's life-long illogical. And I can't pick up after the first one where we're shown the thing in one way and then you see that the art was done in a hurry, that there's now another art that says the other. You see there is a wanted and received detention, please nice detention is a deprivement of freedom due to influence on witnesses. And then suddenly there's no danger of anyone else affecting the witnesses. Because there hasn't been any other arrest warrants in months. So in this case someone who isn't at all, who's ex, who can't even access that building across the street could affect witnesses and we've raised our hand to arrest him, we and then the state's attorney tells me no one else can influence witnesses anymore. That doesn't make sense. I'm just talking about some kind of common sense that needs to exist. We found out later that the police hadn't been involved since the beginning. You know what that means? No search was made, no money was investigated, no polygraph was made. Polygraph is not evidence, but it's an elimination tool in research. Nothing was done but we agents were put in a position to be served to raise our hand because it is our practice. And so I'm never going to say that something bad was done, I'm just saying that now looking at that first request, I wouldn't raise my hand to him. And that's why I can't get up for this one. And that's why I think we should discuss this practice in the future. Nothing will happen if the prosecution is conducted later, following the end of the parliamentary term. It won't get old. But we won't be in a position to feel uncomfortable. I feel uncomfortable here because of that first request. Like I'd feel uncomfortable if anyone else was in the same situation. Because I feel like the job wasn't done at that point in a way that had the right to seek custody. And I have the biggest problem with that detention, with the deprivement of freedom. Not so much with an investigative request, although this is just about an investigative request. But when we were led to raise our hand for detention because he would influence witnesses, that's completely illogical. And after that, it's undeniable that someone still did the same thing in the government. And after that from the famous press, as long as it's been a month and something, we don't have any other arrest warrants until today. So there was no one to influence the witnesses and he was supposed to be escorted to Remetinec very quickly because of the influence on the witnesses. It doesn't make sense. And those indifferences in acting speak, at least to me, but of course each of us will decide for himself. And when the time comes to vote that we should sit down, that we should sit between clubs and talk really about future practice as we set ourselves up according to these requirements and what we're going to look for. Because if we're gonna raise our hands every time, then we can wipe out the immunity. He doesn't really make any sense anymore. So every time the request comes, you raise your hand, it's automation. Then let's write when a request for immunity is granted. We can say that, but then let's change. And if we're not going to argue, if we're going to be in a position to believe everything, it's not good for me. And this item with exactly what's going on, I'm telling you, when we raise this hand, we said that 117 orders were stolen, such is the starting point, and that 8 divided by someone else. That's impossible. Whoever's telling me is making a fool out of me. I can't raise my hand for that. So, I'm not going to go into any of these previous cases that have been going on why you're looking for detention or not. Let's just say that this time is behind us, that these were some mistakes, because you really can't explain to yourself why in a case where it's a million-dollar damage, where the whole chain of people is never wanted in custody, and here you're looking for it after three days. But let's just say, it was a bad practice, maybe this is better. But then she has to be consistent, too. She has to be based on something. And that's what my basic problem is with this. So no one but themselves can know whether he's guilty or innocent and I have no ambition at all. I don't know if a colleague did anything or didn't. He's the only one who knows that. And in the end, they'll determine the court. But we're here to say whether we agree with this kind of treatment or this practice or not. And we need to promote it in the context of what that means for all other actions. Is this the largest item in Croatia that had to be solved within 72 hours? It's not. But he got rid of it. Namely, he got rid of us taking off here and there was a detention. It may be the first time that property like this has been done. Okay. After that, we have this right now and it tells you from this it's being pushed out first. And we will have two existential requests for an investigation that are contradictory to each other. And it's not good and I can't raise my hand for it. I'm not gonna invite anyone to vote one way or another, that's everybody's thing. I am in favour of talking at Parliament level in principle about future practice. And I think that's where Parliament needs us, and we're here as a club, and we're out of what's happened so far. We think we have reasons. We're ready to talk about it with our colleagues not publicly, we can talk in public here right now. But in the future, let's see how we stand. Let's work out some rules. Because the rules aren't here this is now an example. But they must apply to each and every one of them. We had one practice. We think we should talk about her to be different. This can't be turned on anyway. It may be in this case, but in the future it will be in excess, because there will always be danger of who most of them are not playing theirs and letting out those minorities, etc. That's not good, then. That's why, that's my appeal. Everyone in their conscience, but let's talk about this because it's an extremely, extremely important question. We can't go into who's guilty of who's not, it's not our job and I really don't know. But we can and we have the right to from this place to demand that work is done well. And what we see and what we decide that we can calm hands, calm souls raised hands for it. Here's what I'm saying. That's my attitude. He's got his own, and that's how we're gonna vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30332	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30333	Your Honor. Mr Orsate Milenic, you were the Minister of Justice, as I recall. You know, now that I've figured out just as healthy a peasant as you would say, because we're born in the country with some little prom, someone bigger, someone smaller. But since you can't influence the DORH now, or the judiciary, you're trying to influence Mr. Sauch at all, not to the DORH, not to the judiciary. It used to be that way. I know that people can be taken, detained, imprisoned and sentenced. Hello, DORH. Lock down, hello, court order. So I asked you 20 days ago here in the assembly why you moved from the Vinkovci court to Vukovar? You're the one who told me about the possible match of judges, the godmothering, the recognition, the rest. Isn't that what you said? And I told you then, and you brought me to court in Vukovar, that I should be judged by those who did not judge those who were to be judged during the province. I hope you understand. I've filed 57 people. I've filed a war crime charge against 57 people. We almost caught 57 of them. One's done. He was given three and a half years for war crimes, for the most serious form of war crimes he received three and a half years in prison, Milan Marinkovic from Borov Sela, because of the difficult financial situation and the sick old mother. Two of these were wiped out who were still with him. Of them 57 means only one and he got 3 years after 25 years. So what do we have to wait for Mr. Saucha to grow old, not to be beautiful, blue and tall, or witnesses to die as they have died in all cases when it comes to Croatian defenders and victims of the Croatian people? [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30334	Thank you. Replication response, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30335	Mr. President. So a fellow of several things. First, in this case, the prosecution will take place because we did remove immunity and that investigation and if it comes to the charge, it goes away. So by voting against it, no one will prevent any prosecution. So that's clear. Well, we voted a while ago for him to go. So he's going. And that's where it's going to be determined, it's really going to be determined what it was. And when it's established then I think we can talk further. Is this justifiable now or not? So when it's determined. That's something I think we should go for because it comes from the logic of this act. After all, DORH put us in that logic. They went first with that in 72 hours, we voted. Now they're looking for this. Let's go! You went fast with that, you finish quickly. So when you're done, we'll move on, no problem. I never, I don't know, I guess you know about those items, but I've never done any influence on the judiciary in my day and nobody's gonna be able to tell you because it's just not true, I'm telling you in my day. If there was anything sooner or later, I'm not getting into it. I'm convinced that all my predecessors and heirs are in that place where I've worked honestly and those things haven't worked, I'm sure. But I can vouch for myself, so it wasn't. And that's the way it is. In our time, they started reading a series of proceedings against our prominent members if you speak at the time of that government. Well, if this was exactly what you're talking about, then I guess it'd be a phone call, if it wasn't. But people are tried and convicted. Why? Because the basic... message, to everyone alike, is what this country must have. Everyone's equal to the law, everyone, and that's a standard that you and I and everyone here have to stand up for, and on this case, we have to stand up for it. And think of who it was going against in ours. Time and then you'll understand that there was no influence. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30336	Representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30337	Comrade Milenić, you have spoken a sentence that I have heard here in the Assembly on the board of directors at least 100, 200 times lately. You said it's always been automatism, that's the practice. If it was a private lawsuit it wasn't... if the DORH was being taken off. I am as a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission but here in the Assembly, in certain cases, I voted in the way I personally thought it was fair. In the sense of applying certain weights of a portion, I felt that it was something that could be judged by the end of the term and that there was no weight to strip him for it. For a private lawsuit with my colleague Pernar, I voted to get rid of him because I think he personally insulted a person by his name and name, publicly stood before it, and this one has no opportunity. And now I don't want to talk about Tomislav Sauchi at all, and I want to talk about what's been going on here the whole time. Right in that sentence you said I'd heard a few hundred times. Do we want to change that practice or do we not want to change that? But then you need to make it clear that you're on that side that you're going with this particular proposal, whether or not we trust the DORH. Because according to everything we heard tonight, it turns out that the DORH is doing something that doesn't deserve trust. I personally believe that Tomislav will prove his innocence and that he will succeed in that part and what always angered me when it was tried in advance, and that is the practice, unfortunately, that is the practice. And here we heard here in the introduction to today's assembly after a break that a man is named for a loan. Already in advance in the media will be someone called, convicted later I don't know what... I think we're the big culprits in this whole trial in advance and we forget that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30338	Replicate reply, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30339	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with you. In my debate, I didn't propose, and I didn't speak for the club, so I just made my point like you said you had before, and of course everyone here will decide when we vote. I was just complaining that it was awkward for me because it was our member, so it's breaking up on it. It would be easier to talk about if it were yours, you know as it is easier for you in some things right now, but I think we should talk about it internally and let's say so at Parliament level and about the meaning of immunity and how we're going to set ourselves up because I would feel more comfortable if we had some kind of unique practice. I've had to say myself sometimes and hard and I haven't done what you've been doing, I've been going that way, that's the practice we're going to do because I've taken that principle, now I'm thinking that we need to reconsider, if most of it will be in another case, in this, we need to talk about it. But it's again something that this assembly should really serve for. I think if we're gonna be handlifters, we're gonna question things. When you talk about trust, is this about principle trust? Look at them working there I think we have some 600 prosecutors or state attorneys as well as everywhere, there are great people and I believe that most of them, maybe there are some who make mistakes sometimes, so mistakes are possible everywhere. Do you need to sanction them? We don't need to, but we need to talk about it. I think it's Parliament's duty to speak, so someone's gonna hear maybe something won't do if it was bad before, maybe it'll fix it, maybe it won't, you understand. It is also so we will have this debate and we will discuss it and trust, mistrust, etc. But here I had a need to say and point out certain illogicalities which, as a council representative, prevent me from raising my hand, as you had before that one. Let's say you voted differently. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30340	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30341	Thank you very much. Mr Milenić, in your debate, you have basically asked me to not raise a bianko hand, especially after this much illogicality that you have counted in the debate and that one of them had a certain treatment, that others did not, while I mean the express arrest because of the influence on witnesses, and after that the same person who is, say, an incredible paradox, that person was working, now the suspect was also, working in front of Croatian Prime Minister Plenkovic's office, then de facto introduced Cvitana to that press conference that they held together to enter his office. She couldn't influence witnesses, and she worked there all the time and I'm still saying as prime minister's secretary she had some authority. On the other hand, Sach, who had no work, who no longer had any formal authority over the people who were in the office and who were potential witnesses, could have influenced the witnesses by law. So as soon as these things are put together, it's normal for you to question your decisions and it's normal for us to all question our decisions. Because if automaticism were a removal of immunity, then it would say in the law that the automatism of the Parliament removes the immunity of the agent for these and those cases. However, this is where the Assembly, or representatives, should make a decision. And when all of this is put into context and compared, it's normal for you to reconsider your decision and your decisions and that's how you'll do it in the future. And I believe so, but so do all the other MPs in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30342	Replicate reply, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30343	Thank you very much. So I'm really and what I said first, I'm convinced that there's no politicization here, especially from political parties, so no politicians. And that's something I think we should keep on the sidelines. And if this was about me investigating investigations, I probably wouldn't even be discussing today because that's something that when you're looking logically, OK, so let's investigate and see what's real. But we had an investigation there and a request for a prison investigation. It's a deprivement of freedom. Saucha was there for seven days, it could have been longer. If there were 50 witnesses, it would've been six months. After that, we get this second request that's contradictory to the first one. So what are we gonna believe? The first one is based on the secretary's statement, if we're talking about it and the second one turns out she's a co-criminal. Well, it's a badly done job because we have representatives who have made a request that has not been completed. That's my problem. I want to know when I decide what her role is, which is his. I know that's why there's an investigation to determine. But if you're suggesting that I give you authority to investigate then at least tell me what it's about and don't send me a message, he did it all by himself and this is a great witness. I want him in custody so he doesn't affect the witnesses and I let her keep doing it until the end. I mean, that was illogical from the beginning. Okay, I raised my hand then, I did, because I believed OK, there's got to be something else. Then I realized that there was something else, the opposite of finding a witch, a polygraph, a secretary who became something else and so on. And that's what's wrong. Let's let it go, let it finish the first procedure, let it go, and then we'll go later, there's no statute of limitations. I mean, she's got it, but she's so long, she's sure she won't get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30344	Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30345	When it comes to the state's attorney's office and the state's attorney, let me have one parallel. There is a Law on State officials, a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, which says that a state official must not only find himself in a conflict of interest but must do everything to avoid a potential conflict of interest, in a potential conflict of interest. Let's put, let's promote this thing, this thing from this point of view. The state's attorney acts on the line of public interest and the public's interest is to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts. But he also has a private interest in being re-elected, it's a human interest, it's a normal interest so that it acts on one line of liking to those who might or should rename it. Let's get him out of this situation as the law requires officials not to enter into a potential conflict of interest. Let's make a law that neither the state's attorney can enter a potential conflict of interest but act solely in the public interest, that no one can ever suspect that this man acts as if he wishes to please the ruling, we'll do him a favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30346	Representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Milenić, I think we should not only change the practice here in the Croatian Parliament, among us parliamentary representatives and regarding our immunity, I think we should change the practice in the entire system of the operation of the DORH, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the powers of the DORH in the investigation. Because you know, once you're pointed at the DORH finger, so either the Attorney General or the Director-General of BUSKOK, so when you hear from your lawyer, when you consult, when you hear a score like this when he tells you, look, you now need to get back together with the process ahead of you, and it'll take years, believe me, it's worse than the prison sentence itself. So, the powers the DORH has in the investigation, i.e. In the investigations before the trial, the defendant has absolutely no right. So the presummation of innocence, the principle of equality of arms, no longer exists in Croatia. And I'm going to tell you one more thing, I think we need to put some kind of surveillance on the DORH's work and we need to stop hiding, i.e. We need to stop hiding from the flossula about some top-level profession. We are here once a year to discuss the report on the operation of the DORH, which is not quite enough. It is necessary to introduce some kind of civil surveillance, continuous and systematic over the work of the DORH that would constantly question whether their accusations were, i.e. not the charges but their investigations justified or not because otherwise people spend 500 days in Remitinc and no one else's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30348	Replicate reply, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30349	Thank you very much, sir...../The speaker went off and then turned on./... and the controller is the court and it's the only way. So the court has to play an even stronger role, and that is exactly what they can advocate in labour control. Many countries have a solution where the state's attorney's office is part of the executive government. They have and they are highly developed and democratic countries. Why? Because you have a court of impartials who will eventually make a decision and that may also be the way, that should be discussed. But we need to be in a position to remove the estradation of this one. What's happening in your case and many others is estradisation, is a situation where you actually are being tried on the street instead of in court. That's bad. One of the reasons I'm going to be against is that after the request for immunity came, the details began to leak that you didn't even have. So they could only come from one side and it's not good. This item must not be conducted in public. And that defendant doesn't have the same weapon and that's not good. But I say there is a court in democratic countries that will punish both sides if they do. A court that will ensure that your human rights are not violated. And that's something we have to strive for. And I'm sure we'll all work together. I'm not gonna talk about bad work here, and that's what I said. It's just that when you do things quickly, you can make a mistake. So what? What's the problem? The problem is, we've been seduced here in some way, and that's my problem. I still don't know if you did it or not, and it's really none of my business. But I want you to be tried in one correct procedure and if you're guilty of going to jail or wherever, if you're not like any other. If I'm involved in some way, and I'm involved when I raise my hand. Thank you very much. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30350	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30351	Thank you. I'd like to say there are two suspects in this case. One's a secretary, one's a Sauch. By law let's say reality at a time when Sauch was not in the government he couldn't do it. So it's undeniable that after he left, the secretary is 100% the one who did it. So there are no other suspects. Now, since Saucha had previously been in the government then it was suggested that this illogicality observed by Orsat Milenić, that he had 117 warrants himself was stealing for himself, then a couple together with her, and then she herself continued to do so without him. However, the logic of the matter states that this second indictment was amended precisely because it was found that the secretary was indisputably stealing that money, and therefore suddenly puts it as an accomplice, and in the previous request not because it was not known then that the secretary was actually the indisputable culprit. And it's much more logical to say that the secretary was always stealing money than only Sauch in 117 cases, and then in them a dozen Sauchs and she together, and then just her. This DORH proposal is very, very strange. And it's strange what was said in the art of signing that all signatures on 117 warrants are identical to each other. It means that although there are variations in human signature, there is always a little different from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30352	Replication response, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd only appeal here if we didn't go and try not to be judges. So, not taking anyone into defense, etc. I don't think it's a good idea to call a secretary or anyone, because we don't know who did what, like we don't even know what Tomislav Sauch did. So I think here in the debate and I hope that I've stuck to it we should limit to the quality of the material we've got because that's what it is. We decide only one formal and we have no authority and we must not go into the depths of it. But if this form results in contradiction, if we are not satisfied with it, then we should say and talk and therefore take a stand whether or not we are in favour. But it's not good that we use here to enter, we use the opportunity to enter the metrics, to discuss this or that. In the end it's a matter for the court, it's a matter for the parties that will be brought before the court. I've only been here to express what I've done as a council representative is disturbing in relation to what I first raised my hand. And I said for the first time I raised my hand because I believed blindly in it. Later when I have two things and I compare them, which is my job to compare them, then I have a problem and that's why I won't raise my hand another time. But here everyone will decide for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30354	Representative Aresen Bauk. He's giving up, thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, MP Arsen Bauk will speak for the closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30355	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. To express myself in the language of the experts, the Club of Representatives of the SDP is very likely, almost certainly not to vote for this report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, i.e. it will be against the removal of immunity, the additional removal of immunity to Agent Tomislav Sauchi, as in any other case, regardless of the party membership of the representatives, would be similar because we announced this immediately after we learned of the new circumstances that followed after the Croatian Parliament gave permission to deprive MPs Tomislav Sauche of his freedom in this case. The result is our reduced trust in the work of the State's Attorney's Office in this case after the knowledge we had. We believe that the practice that has been so far needs to be reconsidered and changed. In fact, this practice is no longer available, because if it remains with the representative's statement as it was on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, then the ruling majority will remove immunity from the opposition's representative in one process that we are no longer convinced is not affected by what Milenic's colleague said about estradisation. Otherwise, for a long time in two meetings of the Croatian Assembly in the agenda somewhere in the two-digit regular number of points of acidification report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2015. In one comment, counterpart Bacic said we would discuss him when we are not hot from the Dnevnica affair. I don't know what that temperature is now, but it's certainly bigger than just discussing the journal's affair. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think this is much of a discussion either. I have sent a letter to the President of the Parliament on behalf of the SDP club asking that an immunity meeting be organised and that we agree on a new practice. We would like the meeting to be held before voting on this point, if possible, to review the practice not only of removing immunity at the request of the DORH but also of private lawsuits and civil litigation against MPs for spoken words in the Croatian Parliament. Also, the criteria by which we will be guided in the decision-making process and voting will be one, whether it is necessary, is socially necessary to say that the case against the MPs is being conducted as long as his term of office is or will be without any damage to society and the state can do so even after the term of office. And secondly, whether the MP or MPs will have a fairer process when they are MPs or when they withdraw from politics and they stop. In this case, the two questions that we have asked ourselves are no, the answer is such that the vote is voted when the vote is against. I also want to say that this is not an administrative procedure. The Croatian Parliament, whatever decision it makes to vote in this case, will make a decision that is constitutional, legally it can be good or bad, but it is constitutional or legal. The Constitution has given us the right to vote on this and in this case we have decided to use this right or to say it in a slightly different way, in this case, the right to decide we did not give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30356	Representative Blaženko Boban answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30357	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Bauk. Yes, I have only one sentence to refer to the debate of my colleague Orsat Milenić, and I absolutely agree and support this debate, unfortunately one part of the MPs here today has been put at the very least as jurors, judges of jurors and one part, and you are really very correct on this matter and as regards fellow Sauche and as far as the secretary and anyone else is concerned. But colleagues in Bauku would be replicating any parliamentary immunity. Personally, to be honest, I don't think any parliamentary immunity should exist, I think. Why should the parliamentary representative of the point earlier have had one where we have the parliamentary representatives here who work for good or have not, but in the previous pair of calls we have abolished the empty powers, the laws, we worry about how many diaries they will have, what this, what it is, and here we protect them unlike other citizens for immunity and for some works. But I agree, too, if it is, but it is an inappropriate practice so far, that I agree in each other's segments, which is when a private lawsuit against a parliamentary representative goes against a private representative if a private representative has damaged a private person for millions of dollars, we generally did not remove immunity because it is not fair. Maybe this private company there was shut down because of some parliamentary representative we were protecting here with immunity, maybe his company and his whole family there was destroyed, and we were protecting him here with immunity. This should also be discussed and such a model of future practice should be really discussed because it is not fair that we also treat colleagues who have done real damage to someone in private suits. The parliamentary representative can be his party's parliamentary representative for 15, 20 years, and the company can indeed come and the man who sued him in big trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30358	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30359	As for what you said, I fully agree with you, even about what you said about immunity, that's exactly why we didn't have any de facto immunity from the state. So in the last 15, 17 years, no one has remained immune at the request of the State's Attorney's Office. Exceptions were there about a month before the 2011 elections, MP Chehok was three weeks ahead of the elections or even perhaps the last week of his term did not meet and his immunity was not lifted, so he lost his term after the election, so after a few weeks. So that's one thing. And my colleague Stazic spoke in his debate about how immunity arose, so that parliament was protected from the king, I did quote it well, Mr. Stazic. As for immunity to say anything else, he's not protecting you from any persecution, he's just putting off that possible persecution until your term is over. So if someone is sued for a private lawsuit, he will, when his term of office is suspended, have no statute of limitations, so he will respond eventually. That goes for this case, though, this is to be honest with you, this request doesn't matter that much to this case. So we've got immunosupply for 117 travel orders and we're looking for another 8 and another contract. I mean without being accused of being a judge, it's very logical if he's guilty of 117 he's also guilty of 8, if he's not guilty of 117 not even for 8. So voting against this immunity is just a message that we think about the work of the State's Attorney's Office in this case, not about protecting someone for this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30360	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30361	Your Honor. Comrade Bauk, it looks like we all have the same attitude about the operation of the DORH. So we all doubt the work of the DORH and I have reasonable doubts that I doubt their work. Like this, I wouldn't want to be a colleague of Saucci's in the skin. So a young man who's in politics who walks this city that has to look at the views of the accusing whether he's turning, whether he's not turning, I'm not getting into it. I'd be very embarrassed. I live in space, someone calls it rural, some call it wartime, some call it Slavonia, someone calls my part of the country. I can walk up there no matter how much anyone looks at me. Why? Because I'm proud of everything I've done. And even those who accuse me, and then I'm proud. Why am I saying all this? We here need to defend the integrity of parliamentary deputies. That's what we've been discussing all day. In what way? So things like this don't happen to us. And if this kind of thing happens to us, this kind of suspicion, this sort of thing. This should be dealt with urgently if he did not commit or prove it if he is, as urgent as possible and disposed of by this Damocle sword that hangs over his head because the great burden is upon him. That's what I'm talking about. And as for the DORH, since we've all established that he's not consistent, he's not transparent or what he's usually done in his work, so I guess it would be our turn to come here more and report to us for the year 2015 when he was, was doing what wasn't supposed to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30362	The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30363	Well, it's interesting to ask if it's better if we're all dissatisfied or if we're satisfied with each other and not satisfied with each other. It's always in such institutions a double sword. But whoever accepts that duty must be aware that in general everyone will be dissatisfied. We're particularly unhappy with this case. We don't have the possibility of having an impact on work for what's been removed from immunity. So this procedure can go on as normal as possible. We also gave support in a request that was a little too harsh in our opinion but we remained shocked when we saw him that we didn't get along. Malten, here's a colleague of Sach said he asked us to do it as soon as possible. And that's where we put our trust. So the witness interview was completed, a colleague of Sach came out of Remetinco, came here for the first time in the Parliament, of course all the cameras took pictures of him, somehow it all seemed expensive, I don't know what. And then this knowledge came that it was later and this joint press. And of course we have to look for further explanations here. As for work for 2015, we do not decide when it will come to the agenda. I chaired the Justice Committee twice when I put it on the agenda. You once voted against it on the agenda of that last meeting. Now there was no vote against, and now we have kept that report in mind, and that is how the committee proposed it. What will be the debate, and when it is not up to us, I can agree with you there. And as for what you said should be done as soon as possible and that Damocle's sword should be taken down, so, yes, we have a procedure that is under way for which immunity has been removed and it should be completed. And this is, with these eight, this is one face lift, so to speak Croatian, and we don't want to be the ones that's going to fix the make-up for a little bit. Uh-huh, that's minus, thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30364	Representative Branko Bačić reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30365	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bauk, you quoted me correctly, I said that it might not be the best time to discuss it, so I said in hot conditions when the state's attorney is investigating an affair that is happening at the top of the executive board, i.e. in the Prime Minister's Office, so that the parliamentary deputies would not be charged with under the impression of discussing the work of a state's attorney for 2015. Col. Milenic, I agree with him, that it is not good to reduce the powers of the state's attorney's office, that it is better to strengthen the independence of the Croatian judiciary so that the court does not hesitate to refuse the indictment if it is not justified because we have witnessed that, by a line of minor resistance, the court is missing the indictment and then the evidence procedure determines whether there is really guilt or not. Therefore, I think that we should strengthen and encourage the Croatian judiciary, the courts to also act on charges coming from the state's attorney's office in such a way as to act without being on the other hand, not to decide on the charges coming from the DORH. I am therefore not in favour of reducing their powers but I am in favour of strengthening the independence of the judiciary and, in that sense, we, as part of the legislative authority, contribute to the position of the Croatian judiciary. And the third thing that I wanted to tell you, I think it was during the morning, and that's what you mentioned to me, that it would be good if, in cases where the removal of immunity is requested, the MPs until the term of office allows and removes immunity, when the term of office ends, then goes to it. I mean, I wouldn't agree with that, namely, there's a saying that slow justice is actually an injustice. Therefore, I think that, indeed, when it is time to process, complete and remove immunity if necessary and necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30366	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30367	There are several anthological statements by politicians about the work of state lawyers, I will try and quote them. One thing is, he'd have done it before, he'd have ended up in a pot. That's more of our side. That was a joke. The second is, if he was smarter, he'd send this after the election. I've tried to, so what I've quoted correctly, I've taken as one of the arguments in fact, and I'll use that when and if ever, I don't prejudge, by the law of probability, it's possible that sometimes for one of the representatives from the ruling majority, here I won't say from any party and then we'll have to test our practice. And imagine now the situation that we're against again and you're taking yours off for it. It's possible, but don't change it then, so we can talk in practice now. So I agree partly with you. I'd like to ask ourselves two key questions when we decide and try to get an answer to them. First of all, is it necessary to process it immediately? This graph drawing, and even what Mr. Culey had. And I don't think so, so there will be justice, and if it is later there will be no injustice. The second question is whether the process is escarved or whether it is so politically contaminated that it might be more just for the person it is dealing with when it comes out of politics. So we've actually come into a situation that we've turned the story around, so that public figures have even less chance of a fair trial than these unpublished ones. So maybe. I'm not saying that. I have to further analyze that, but it's one of the options we should discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30368	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30369	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk, I wouldn't go into a trial debate, I believe here that we all have or at least so should all public and non-public persons have the same status in court. But I'm sure in this pre-action of a public person, and as we've seen from the case of the last Mr. Sauche, they have a different status. They're being followed, reported, conclusions are being made, special shows are being made, everyone has their own attitude. And I'm sure, I'm sure that under such conditions neither the attorney's office does as it does in other cases. Under greater pressure, I said it was already harder to admit a mistake, it's harder to say what's obvious to everyone, we haven't done what has to be done because of what is then meant to be a further debate and to follow up on certain political conjectures and on those who have made mistakes. So I absolutely agree with you that certain crimes have no reason to, of course, not be difficult or that a person can't make them do what you said again. If it's graphed in three years, it can be conducted and no one can do anything. And that is why I am once again glad that you have submitted a request to the presidents of clubs in the Croatian Parliament to analyse the practice, to draw some conclusions. Because here we don't raise our hands with automation, but because of some logic. And it's obvious that this logic is not good that we've been applying so far, because otherwise we wouldn't have had these problems and these questions would not be opened. We wouldn't be having this debate at all if the logic that's been left so far was her. which we think is correct. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30370	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30371	I find the construction interesting. I believe or at least that's how it should be, then you don't believe, about. That's me, that's how you started. So, as for the graphics of fellow Pernar, in the opening statement, he unfairly accused HDZ that Dalmatia was full of their graphite, I must. Dalmatia is full of Hajduk's graphite, which is exactly what's not bad at all, but good. And if he were to happen to be like he called for convicted of this charity, then he could draw, keep drawing those graphs down. That could be it. ... Of course, of course. [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah. As far as your thoughts are concerned that someone doesn't want to admit a mistake she's actually, then we should actually file a little harder on a person who doesn't want to admit a mistake, so she's ready for someone she believes isn't guilty of insisting on further persecution. So, it's a very difficult accusation that I can't make, which I don't want to say and which, if I'm a responsible politician, I can't say unless I'm willing to take the next step by asking for the resignation and replacement of that person and even the prosecution for abuse of office. That's it. So let's not, therefore, or let's talk about it in a way, so I choose words very carefully, not about mistrust in work, but about less confidence. Because it can always be the next question and what will you do when you say it? So when you drop an atomic bomb, don't be surprised about the radiation, and I'm trying not to throw myself unless I have this radiation protection suit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30372	I'm closing the argument after philosophical thoughts. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 p.m. with the point Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Thank you. Session interrupted at 18.50 hours. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30374	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 19th session held on 21 April 2017, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief Josip Krajačić to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mladen Madjer in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence against the personal freedom of the threat referred to in Article 139(1). In accordance with Article 14(1) of the Code of Penalty and the Penalty of Penalty against Honor and Reabilities referred to in Article 147(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Court of Justice of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 December 2013 on the protection of personal data relating to the processing of personal data by the European Parliament and the Council and the Council and the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’), and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’), the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’). Penalty law. Mr Mladen Madjer is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted without discussion. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament, shall be suspended during the term of the parliamentary term of office for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Mladen Madjer at the request of the attorney general Josip Krajačić, acting on the appeal brought on 18 July 2013 to the Municipal Court in Koprivnica for the criminal offence against the personal freedom of the threat referred to in Article 139(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 14(1) of the Code of Penalty and the Penalty of Penalty against Honor and Reabilities referred to in Article 147(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Court of Justice of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 December 2013 on the protection of personal data relating to the processing of personal data by the European Parliament and the Council and the Council and the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’), and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’), the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’). Penalty law. The argument is identical, it's a private lawsuit and we stayed in practice that, regardless of the debate we had the other day, we did not remove the immunity of the representative, Madero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30375	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Be my guest, Mr. Bauk. I'm guessing that agent Bauk is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30376	Thank you, Mr. President. The custom has been the rule so far, but not always that you can raise your hand and get in the name of the club, so if it's my fault that I didn't apply, please tolerate it. Thank you. So, my colleague, Tušek, has accurately stated the practice of removing immunity in private lawsuits, and given the scale of m, we will vote in favour of the Mandate-Immunity Commission report in this case. I will not explain in more detail why we believe that this type of immunity is still needed to remain to the greatest extent possible. However, on April 13th of this year as SDP president of the SDP, I have asked the President of the Parliament to call on the presidents of the representatives' clubs to try to agree on a new practice after we announced that due to obvious failures in the work of the State's Attorney's Office in another case, we believe that we need to reconsider the practice so far. After that conversation, we can again conclude that the arguments that we remain in such practice are strong, that the practice should not be changed but I think it is not good to deafen to the legitimate request of a relatively large club and continue with practice without even having a debate on what kind of practice we will have further. That meeting doesn't take much time. We can hold it today, we can hold it on Wednesday and we can vote on all the points that the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Assembly, as regards immunity next Friday. Of course, I took this opportunity so I wouldn't have to ask for a break later and explain my position and I'm trying to keep the subject from taking my word and then I'm talking about the practice that Mr. Tušek mentioned in his report. So, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I suggest that this report, therefore, on the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report on the private suit and on the next report we discussed on Wednesday, so at the request of the state's attorney, we do not hold today's vote, but rather do it next Friday and try to at least try to establish a new practice in removing immunity so that, as in the present case, all such decisions will be taken unanimously. This would not have sent any message to anyone who proposed any removal of the immunity of a private prosecutor, any state attorney's office would have already shown first that Parliament has responsibility for its constitutional obligations and the right of MPs to decide not to be a mailbox to any institution or state independent because Parliament in this country is the main authority and the constitution is a basic document, and if the Constitution gives immunity to someone then the Croatian Parliament is not a mailbox that should just pass it on. Especially if this is about an obvious mistake that someone doesn't want to admit. That's why Mr. President, it's the SDP's appeal that this point and the one we've already discussed after at least trying, I say at least try, I'm not saying that we'll succeed, but I think it's your responsibility to at least try to organise a meeting in which we would try to agree on a new practice. And next Friday, if we manage to vote all together in this practice and if we fail, it will be just as likely today. Here's so much on behalf of the SDP club. I ask that these two points after the debate on this point of removing immunity on a private suit to delay the vote until next Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30377	Is anyone else interested in involving in the debate? If it's not with this, I'm closing the argument. Representative Bauk, I understand all the reasons you have stated and I will be pleased to organise a meeting with everyone, and I hope that all representatives or club presidents will respond to the further treatment of the download, the potential removal of immunity to the MPs. That doesn't include this time. The MPs are not a mailbox, the MPs have their will and the ability to vote as they wish at the time of the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30378	Mr. President, may I request a vote on my proposal to postpone the vote until the club's agreement?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30379	How will you request a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30380	That's what I'm asking you if I can. Usually, when a united debate is sought, it is determined in some ways whether the MPs agree with it and then decide on a united debate. And this way we can determine if the MPs want it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30381	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30382	Thank you, Mr. President. Before the vote, we held talks and consultations with the representatives of the MOST club and with the president of the SDP club. We at the HDZ have no problem with discussing whether this is the way that has so far been addressed in the Croatian Parliament that when the DORH, or the court requires the removal of immunity that we generally approve of it and when removing immunity on a private charge that we do not accept it. And I agree with my colleague, Bauk, that we can discuss this at the Bureau session and we at the HDZ Club support it. The only thing that's removed from what my colleague Bauk said, which is what we believe we should do when there's no request for any parliamentary representative. So that this possible new practice that we would establish in the Croatian Parliament, which I personally do not advocate, but I do not want to reconsider such a decision. I believe that we should, as the Mandate-Immunity Commission has already decided to act both in this case as colleagues of Madero and in the case of a colleague of Sauche, so that the Assembly should declare this when there is no further request from the DORH or the court or no private action to discuss this at the Bureau's session. And I am to argue. But if we were to do it now at a time when the Parliament had to plead for the removal of immunity, I don't think it would be correct for these two colleagues or for all those who have been treated that way so far. Therefore, I support my colleague Bauk's position, but I think we should discuss today's decision and then when there's no request to discuss it so that we don't turn out to be doing it just for one MP. I don't think it would be right for him either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30383	Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30384	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, this request was made by our colleague Bauk, we asked for a joint discussion before the hearing was held on the Mandate-Immunity Commission. It is, and what I would remind you, and I would suggest the same thing, suggest that we make a statement today whether we will vote on it, so according to a certain practice in the Rules of Procedure this is, since the debate is open, we can accept this as a proposal for a conclusion. So I would like to ask you to give our representatives here in the Assembly a statement on our proposal to the joint and club of the HNS and HSU and the SDP club on the proposed conclusion that we have verbally stated to postpone the vote on the removal of immunity and colleagues of Madjero and fellow Sauchi until next week. And before that, it means that clubs are located in an extended presidency and that future practice is discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30385	Since the debate is closed, here I am, Agent Pernar, here you are, but I wish you'd joined the moment of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30386	Thank you. What I'd like to say is that this whole situation has basically come about because the DORH has decided to time certain actions, certain actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30387	Agent Pernar, this has nothing to do with what the SDP Representatives Club has proposed. You'll get a chance to get involved in the debate later. I'd like you to sit down. The mandate-immunity committee is in session, made a decision. Then a meeting was proposed. I would really ask for the reason that we will make a precedent in which absolutely every parliamentary representative will be able to stand up, suggest that something be voted past the agenda and past the vote. I'd really like to ask that we don't do this precedent this time. If we are going to do this, there is a possibility that through the amendments to the Rules of Procedure we should put it in place, because they are now under way, that this time we will not go in such a way, and surely through the session of the Bureau of Parliament we will have a debate on all further actions. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 106 for and 1 abstentioned and without votes against the decisions made, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The next item is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Sauche of the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision which reads: Appropriation is granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Sauche, representatives of the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State Attorney's Office, Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, issue of the KUS: 48/17 of 10 April 2017 by State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by Act No KRDO: 192/2017 of 10 April 2017 on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed two crimes of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(1). In the case of a criminal offence and two offences, the counterfeiting of an official or business document referred to in Article 279(1) and (2) shall be prohibited. Penalty law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that the majority of votes are 66 for, 15 abstentions and 25 against decisions made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. This is what we're done with voting subjects. The following is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30389	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 19th session held on 21 April 2017, colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Branimir Glavas on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duties addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission found that it was based on Article 14. The law on election of representatives in the Croatian Assembly of Representatives, Branimir Glavas, began on 2 November 2016, and that the deputy deputy representative's duties began to act as a master of science, Josip Salapic. Without discussion, the committee decided to suspend the term of office of representative and to suspend the duties of deputy deputies on 11 May of the current year, suspending the term of office of representative Branimir Glavas and representative of the Master of Science Josip Salapic, on the same day, ceases to act as deputy MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30390	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 143 votes for, 1 abstentioned and no votes against decisions made, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30391	At the 20th session held on 4 May 2017, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of the representative Vlaha Orepić on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office of 2 May 2017, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 27 April 2017 the Government of the Republic of Croatia relieved him of the duties of the Minister of Interior, which ceased his duties which was incompatible with the parliamentary duties. The Commission has established that the stay of the parliamentary term of office of Vlahi Orepic is due to the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 14 October 2016, and that Davor Romic began acting as deputy MP in the Croatian Parliament on 19 October 2016. How Vlaho Orepić is in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament has filed a written request for the re-behaving of the office of President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit of the Commission's opinion that the conditions laid down by law have been met, and that Vlah Orepic's term of office ceases on the eighth day of the application. On the same day, the conduct of the parliamentary duties of Deputy Representative Davor Romic ceases. Following that unanimous commission, a decision on the suspension of the term of office of the representative and the termination of the term of office of deputy representative on 10 May was taken by his colleague, Orepic, and thus he becomes a representative, and he is no longer a deputy representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30392	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 146 votes for, one abstention, no votes against a decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30393	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 20th session held on 4 May 2017 the written request of MP Slaven Dobrovic on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office of 2 May 2017, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 27 April 2017, the Government of the Republic of Croatia relieved him of the duties of the Minister of Environmental and Energy protection, thus ending his duties which was incompatible with the parliamentary duties. The Commission found that the stay of the term of office of Slaven Dobrovic was due to the incompatibility of the duty referred to in Article 9. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 14 October 2016 and on the same day Ljubica Ambrusec began acting as deputy deputy MP in the Croatian Parliament. How is Slaven Dobrović in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request for the re-behaving of the office of President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal period of time the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, and the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Slaven Dobrovic ceased on the eighth day of the application. On the same day, the conduct of Deputy Deputy Representative Ljubicu Ambrusec ceases. The commission unanimously reached a decision on the suspension of the term of office of the representative and the termination of the deputy deputy, also with a deadline of 10 May.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30394	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find it unanimous with 148 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30395	Thank you. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 20th session held on 4 May 2017 the written request of MP Ivan Kovačić on the re-behaving of the representative of the office from 3 May 2017, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 28 April 2017, the Government of the Republic of Croatia relieved him of the duties of the minister of the administration, which ceased his duties which was incompatible with the parliamentary duties. The Commission also found that the stay of the parliamentary term of office of Ivan Kovacic was due to the incompatibility referred to in Article 9. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 19 October 2016, and that Maro Kristic started acting as deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament on the same day. How is Ivan Kovacic in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request for the re-behaving of the parliamentary office, the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the commission found that the conditions had been met, and the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Ivan Kovacic ended on 8 days from the day of the application. On the same day, the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Maru Kristic, ceases. Following the above, the panel unanimously decided to suspend the term of office of the representative and to suspend the duties of deputy MPs, but this time with 11 May, since the request was submitted one day later than in two previous cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-20-0.u30396	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 149 votes in favour, 1 abstention and no vote against the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we continue with the work of the plenary session. Representative Lovrinovic answered first.
