ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u46995	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Most Club, I request a break on the subject of the inappropriate conduct of the executive officer in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u46996	Okay. A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u46997	Obstructions to investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u46998	Obstacles to investment. Okay. A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u46999	...related to the announcement of new order, the introduction of new taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47000	You got it. And a colleague of the Bunyan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47001	Dear President of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break to discuss a reduction in VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47002	Okay. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47003	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club regarding the introduction of new taxes and certain others within political matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47004	Here you go, fellow Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47005	Your Honor. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I'm looking for a break on the catastrophic floods that took place at the Ogulin end of this weekend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47006	You got it. Okay, so we have six requests for a break. I'm setting a break to 9.50. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. On behalf of the club, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47008	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Last Friday we witnessed an event unmarked in the Croatian Parliament since the establishment of a sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia. So I'm talking about an unremembered incident in which the government minister and her vice president Martina Dalic, outside of all control, collapsed on the elected parliamentary representative of our colleague, Mira Bulja. Apparently, counterpart Bulj hit the target well and that behind this harmful project he was talking about is also the Deputy Prime Minister. So this aggressive act wasn't random. It is about a person who does not see the problem that her spouse is sitting in the INA Administration while deciding on the fate of the strategic Croatian company, which is why the procedure with the commission was launched. So her reaction is conditioned not only by anxiety over this conflict of interest, but also by opening up questions about her role in this project, which was discussed by fellow Bulj, but also by other harmful actions. I will look back on the essence of what she has sent to all of us MPs, but also to the Croatian public the Deputy Prime Minister. So, mentioning its birth link to the Cetitian region, it attacked a number of scientists, but also 17,000 people who have so far publicly opposed the construction of the Peruch thermal power plant calling for us to stop everyone who opposes the development of this area. And what was not mentioned, nor is there a colleague of Bulj here, he talked more about the ecological aspects of such a thermal power plant would burden every entrepreneur in Croatia because it would sell HROT energy at a regulated, or at an incentive price of 1.26 million kuna per year, while CROTs would sell electricity on the market for 0.9 billion a year. So the difference between 360 million kunas per year of CROAT collects, you know that from the compensation for renewables from consumers and of course the price due to this electricity price project should rise. In 25 years, listen to me well, it is an amount of 9 billion kuna that would be taken up to citizens and entrepreneurs so that the husband of Minister Buric, and perhaps Martina Dalic and the circles associated with her, will earn a lot of money. How many healthy projects of dear colleagues and colleagues can be developed with 25 billion kuna, and Minister Dalic supports an ecologically devastating project because the project will be heated by Peru and Cetina on an annual average of 3 Celsius, and in summer for more than 30. And that through this project will be released into the river Cetina about 280,000 gallons of industrial wastewater. What should also not be ignored is the fact that this thermopower plant will spend 600 million kunas of gas a year, and I'm leaving it to you to think about who it comes to. With such aggressive outbursts, Minister Dalic is exposed, as the economy minister should work to eliminate non-taxable givings, which is also in line with the National Reform Programme, and such projects that will fall exclusively on the back of Croatian entrepreneurs cannot be reduced by any means due to these incentives that I was talking about. Because Minister Coric himself proposed without this thermal power plant because of all those projects that were approved to increase by about a billion kuna. So Minister Dalic would burden the Croatian economy, entrepreneurs and industry, as well as citizens. Because I repeat, in 25 years investors, and that would be paid by all of us to be paid nine billion kunas. I repeat again how much of this money can be subsidized by healthy projects not only in the Cetina region, but throughout Croatia, our Slavonia where young people move from. And to make things worse, so Croatian citizens, all of us through the price of electricity will pay for subsidizing the destruction of the river Cetina. And finally, I have one question for Minister Dalic for which she could have another hysterical attack. How much tax debt did you write off Agrokor while you were Minister of Finance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47009	The second is the esteemed colleague Željko Glasnović, Advocacy Club "Independent for Croatia". Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47010	Dear colleagues, we have some illusion of living in some kind of plural democracy. The proof that this is not so at all is that 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, almost 30 years have not yet resolved fundamental human rights such as private property, the return of confiscated property. In this House, laws were passed in the '90s, '96, 2005, and foreign citizens were involved. I'm sorry there aren't any more of these people who burned the party books. That applies to them, also to what I'm telling them right now. What reason is that? Is that the socialist red tape? You have the Office of Presidents, barriers to investment, administration, etc. That's scary. Who will come to the country where 5% of the land is arranged? These are the consequences of something, which is a confiscation, a robbery committed by ceiling robbers with a five-point '45. Keep going. That's what's going on today. Who is Croatia's biggest threat? In one sentence, an internal threat. These are former personnel networked with criminal groups controlling the construction mafia and other branches of the economy. We have absurd cases here, where people sign up for other people's particles. How is that possible? The land that people have for hundreds of years you have an absurd situation, for example in Tribunj Crikvenica the old Croatian cemetery is leveled, plates cut off, that corrupt judges and local mobsters there enroll in that land. You have decisions made, too, in '86. The year's document has the seal of the Republic of Croatia. What kind of message is that to the returnees who want to return? You have an example of where a man invested money, 10 million he invested in a factory in Lica. He can't get a building permit for three years, how much money he lost. What does that mean, these people aren't wanted here. You have a case where a man invested money in a land, there was a case in the morning list and let it be entered into... I.D., sign up for that land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a man in the hospital today. Someone signed up again. And that construction mob is sending him his judge for negotiations. So what kind of state is that? Is that what those defense attorneys died for? And what happens when the defenders lose their patience, I wonder. It's a question for the MUP, for the Jump, for the judiciary. Finally, I would point out, Mr. Jakovcic, who represents us above, he represents himself above in the European Parliament, let it be asked in the laws on confiscated property implemented by the EU, and the return of property. Who say, if you can't get the property back, you can make... And that these people, get back to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's nothing about that, because 19% of these cases haven't been solved. Finally, another message for Croatian emigrants. You have a man here, from Venezuela, working at three state-owned companies. These people could be the drivers of a modernised Croatian state and there are 300 that would come from South America. Venezuela is de facto in war, he can't get citizenship. These people aren't wanted here. Whoever was wanted here, they're '45 with five-pointers, spoons and six characters, and they're pansies, six characters. In '48 he went to Argentina, it's the present, not the past. Every three Croats had an academic title. So that's where we were led by the state of people with fresco mountain PhDs, false academic titles, and there every Croat who had gone, had, every 3 had an academic title, not a fake that he bought there from Đura Pucara, an old diploma for 500 marks, etc. In the end, let Mr. Jakovcic examine upstairs what about the return of property, you have the city of Zrin, the town that was burned in '43. The years, of those who replaced the five-point gambling, about 200 people killed, the rest driven away. And today, the Croat cannot return to his village and build... Is that the Croatian state? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not for me. If we haven't figured out what the internal threats in Croatia are for development, what are we even doing here? This is just a wonderful addiction, full of democracy. We only have two things that aren't the same, that's this facade of plural democracy, social states and hyperinflation. And this second is, I'm calling this country what it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47011	Thank you. We're moving on. Next debate, distinguished colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, GLAS Club and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47012	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We were the participants of a new tax yesterday, so behind that we were participants, equally the defiance of the Ministry of Finance. What we're talking about. We are talking about that a country that really wants to be a friend of its citizens in its tax policies must be clear, must be more consistent, must be unequivocal and must be in favour of its citizens. Not long ago, about a little less than a year ago, we were in this distinguished House, from Mr. Plenkovic, who at the time represented his government listening to about one tax reform, hearing about the reduction of parafiscal burdens, and the result of what? Not long ago, the same thing was discussed about this House's local taxes, and then the topic of these local taxes was real estate tax. A lot of MPs I was among, warned and said the following, don't do anything crazy. Don't introduce a real estate tax, because our fellow citizens saved up in real estate. The Croats didn't save in diamonds, they didn't save in shares, they didn't save in gold. They were saving up in real estate. And then just as this summer came the first forms. Patterns have come that our citizens have to report and write down their real estate well, so that the state can introduce a tax equally to that property. Of course, frightened, they started to fill. I took the form my mom got, and somewhere on the other side of that form I stopped. I think I know about it relatively well, but it was one unprepared tax. And then we're participants that the diameter said a little bit, that it would delay and a little bit not. So then the minister said he wouldn't postpone. So now we have an announcement from the government that there will be no tax, but look wonders, we'll make up for it, in something called the new municipal economy law, so we'll see what happens there. What I mean. Government, he's not a friend to his citizens. The government puts its citizens in their own properties in a situation where they will have tenants, that there will be taxes, that they will not be able to pay them and, of course, scares their citizens. Just like that, here's a miracle yesterday. Instead of saying, we're going to cut the labour price, we're going to lower this tax, and compared to entrepreneurs, we're going to give up some of the parafiscal burdens. Look at the miracle, all of a sudden, just like the finance minister I often mention in this assembly and for this pay phone, says we're going with a new tax. We're going with a new tax, because we want citizens to buy new cars, so that new tax will be an eco tax to reduce sales of old cars. Likewise, he forgets that, already, there are a number of taxes that are, a series of excise duties that are on cars, even this, were something new. It was a message to all those who buy either a plane ticket or a bus ticket, for Germany, Ireland, continue shopping, hurry up because we will have some new taxes. And then in the afternoon, the finance ministry says, "Defusing," says the minister, something misunderstood him. We didn't get anything wrong. We all understand it well together, we understand what it's all about. It's about really wanting to collect taxes on everything that's possible, to collect taxes on real estate, to collect taxes on cars, to get taxes on everything we can get taxes on. What's from the aspect of the state is the question of which direction we're going and which direction the government wants to go. But I note and repeat every time, the government should be friends with its citizens. When you announce a new tax then parallel to that should be a series of taxes that we reduce. We have a series of parafiscal duties we haven't given up on. We haven't given up any, we've left them still. Therefore, even from this pay phone, it is an appeal to the ruling, think about it, don’t frighten the citizens, don’t be afraid by introducing new taxes, and also before you start to think about it and listen to the path of opposition. It's not just an opposition to shout out loud and yell "boo" and say "wow." Listen to the opposition because the opposition sometimes has constructive proposals, has experience in some things and listen to these experiences and do not introduce new taxes. Start with a reduction of parafiscal duties and I'm sure there are a number of taxes we can cut and we can give up on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47013	Thank you. 4th debate respected representative Branimir Bunjac Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47014	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The VAT is today a key tax in Croatia, but at the same time a tax that has caused us many problems, not on purpose, but often on purpose by government decisions. The VAT was introduced in 1998 and immediately caused a terrible recession of even minus 8%, and the government has introduced zero VAT rates on books, medicines, medical implants, bread, and zero gambling rates, films and tourism in 2000. In 2004, VAT was even reduced to 20% temporarily, but from that moment on, the trend has turned upward, to the harm of the economy and to the harm of the citizens. The VAT was quickly returned to 22%, then VAT was introduced in 2005 to tourism of 10%, then 2007. The VAT per newspaper, then the general VAT rate was increased to 23% on 1 August 2009, then to 30.12.2012, the zero VAT rate was abolished, then increased to 13%, then the VAT increased to 25% this year to have an increased VAT, or full VAT, and to hospitality and sugar. When compared Croatia with other EU members, we see that Hungary is the only one with a higher VAT than Croatia, it is 27%, Sweden has the same rate as we are 25%, and all other members have significantly lower VAT. For example. France, Austria and Slovakia 20%, Great Britain 20%, Romania 19%, Malta 18%, Luxembourg 17%. In July of this year, the state earned 4.5 billion kuna from VAT, which is the largest income since pre-recession 2008 and by a billion kunas more income than in July last year. The same result is expected for August 2017. In the first half, 700 million kuna and 14% more than in the same period last year were collected from the government's profit tax. Changes in the calculation of the special tax payable on cars, half-cars and aircraft have brought to the state budget 140 million kuna or 18% more than last year. After a long time, the Croatian budget achieved a surplus. So if we're ever going to cut the VAT then we have to do it now, so literally now or never. I remind you of the programme that has been written by the HDZ party, and I quote that it would not turn out that something of my own is now being imposed here, page 6 of the program Reliable "We will create a space for reducing too many taxes that choke our economy, and above all by a huge VAT." Page 9 of the program Reliable "We will reduce the overall VAT rate to 24% in the second year, and to 23% in the last year of our mandate". The second year of office has just begun. Keep your promise. Not long ago, HDZ representatives who were in opposition mocked Plan 21, which was written as a dead letter on paper, and now they do the same. The VAT is no longer being talked about, as much as Minister Maric and some other members of the government say it is not possible to implement it at this time. Not only that, but they say that even new taxes will be introduced, real estate taxes were called one way or another an improved communal fee or I don't know what, until a day ago, two were mentioned to be introduced tax on old cars. It's just looking for a place to put extra burden on the citizens, and the pre-election HDZ programme was clear. So if indeed the prime minister who told us this more than once wants to restore confidence in the institutions, if he wants to restore confidence in political life, then the VAT reduction should be the first move. The budget will be in the 12th month would be nice if this pre-election promise were fulfilled and the overall VAT rate would be reduced to 24% with the promise of a 23% reduction not to be forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47015	Thank you. 5th Club, SDP's club and respected colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47016	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Today we will talk about a very important topic because unfortunately, the HDZ government is turning into a government of new taxes, where every month or even more often it comes with the announcements of new taxes exactly the opposite of what was announced at the beginning of the mandate, that we will relieve citizens and entrepreneurs, that there will be no new taxes, etc. In parallel, we boast as a government, or boast as a government that the deficit has never been smaller, or that we have even a surplus in the first 8 months, that trends are good. But this does not prevent HDZ and Mr Plenkovic and Marić from burdening our citizens further. What this is about, and what is explicitly opposed by the SDP is a new tax that is being prepared for cars, namely the idea of Mr. Marić that all cars that do not now pay taxes, meaning those older than 10 years are being burdened, i.e. the introduction of a new tax, etc. green tax. To remind our fellow citizens of cars in the Republic of Croatia is over 10 years old and a million and a half people who have their cars would thus be additionally taxed. That's what needs to be advocated, and that's what needs to be done on the contrary. It is necessary to stimulate and facilitate people who have old road vehicles, to replace them with newer ones in a way that gives them subsidies and incentives. For example, if you have a car older than 10 years sell it outside the Republic of Croatia, the state should have a certain subsidy and thus stimulate people who may not have the full money to buy a new car, to help them, facilitate and not in any way make the new car cheaper for these people and in some way be green tax. So green tax can only be one that replaces an old vehicle for a new vehicle with a subsidy from the state, or not a tax, can be a tax reduction, thus stimulating Croatian citizens to invest in newer cars. On the contrary, HDZ and Mr. Maric, after the failed introduction of real estate taxes, now want to reintroduce a new tax on road vehicles, where a million and a half of our citizens will pay more taxes annually than they have paid so far. And for what? Because they have no money for a new car, because they are in a difficult material condition, and because the state does not know how to help them and stimulate them and enable them to get a new car. That's exactly what we're up against. On the other hand, these days we are witnessing an incredible attack on the media, one part of the media, so here we see today and a daily list that personally called me to lead a gang that is attacking constitutional order because me and the MPs in this House want to discuss Agrokor in the Croatian Parliament. And now we are a gang that wants to attack the constitutional and legal order, and in fact we are only fighting against, at this point away from the eyes of the public placing companies, harming reports and trying to allow someone to take over cheaply outside of Croatia, it should also be said, that they are cheaply taking over certain companies from the concert itself. We want to move the debate and give information to people in the Croatian Parliament. What's so bad about that? Why is HDZ running away from it? What's hiding out there? Which is why the media is attacking MPs, specifically me, to lead a gang that wants to hit the constitutional and legal order, and we are essentially protecting the constitutional and legal order because the Croatian Parliament is the highest instance in the Republic of ladies and gentlemen under the Constitution. Citizens have the right to know through the Parliament whatever they want. And this only stretching and delaying the commission and voting on the commission is saying that there are certain things hiding. On this side here, I strongly reject any insinuations of certain media that are thus trying to hit us in the Croatian Parliament, that we have the right to talk about what we want and to inform our citizens about the topics that are very important to them for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47017	Thank you. And the sixth last debate, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Liposjak, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47018	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the past few days, we have witnessed a great amount of rain and floods that have hit the edges of our beautiful. This weekend, one of the most hit areas was the Oculin region that has hit one of the largest floods in the last ten years. The reason I'm saying this is because there is a solution to the problem that would protect not only the Ogulin area from floods, but also the whole of the Carlova County. The solution to the problem is to build a retention of Ogulin for which the preparations have already been carried out and which are currently in the final phase. What is extremely important is that this process must be brought to an end as soon as possible and that this way I appeal primarily to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to all other institutions and businesses, and units of local self-government to do everything in their power so that we can finally send such rainy periods, which are unfortunately more and more recent. The city of Ogulin itself is situated on the central part of the river Dobra in a place where it dives into the natural phenomenon of the cave system of Djulu Medvednica or simpler said in Gula's sink. Due to the strong lush character of the Good River with the rapid and large variations of the Ogulin stream, it is exposed to frequent and periodical blues. Except for the flood that hit us these days, and in 1999 she had catastrophic proportions. At that time, over 1,000 people were flooded, making economic facilities, numerous roads, and numerous agricultural land. The damage assessment we must say at that time was modest between 30 million and 40 million kuna. The purpose of the construction of this retention is the protection of the city of Ogulin, Ozlja and Karlovac, and indirectly the whole of Karlovac County flooded by large waters. The construction of the procedure in question will ensure the degree of security of defence against 100-year water wave. During the operation of the Gojak hydropower plant, i.e. battery Bukovnik. Prevention will be achieved by building a crowded dam, which will allow the water wave to be accepted, with the release of water through a fundamental discharge in quantities that can be accepted earlier by Julia's pontoon retention Bukovnik. From 2001 until today, from 2006, something more intense, starting with the Idea solution, building into spatial plans and issuing the necessary permits, retention goes its course. It is currently under way to resolve property legal relations that are at some 77% of the solution. This weekend, Ogulin was also visited by the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, along with ministers, Krsticevic, Bozinovic and Coric. Prime Minister Plenkovic announced that he would declare the defence against floods in Karlovac County a strategic project. And from the director-in-chief of Croatian Waters, we received a statement that the retention at Ogulinsko Hreljin will be built in about 2 to 3 years. These words, to the inhabitants of the Ogulinian region, give optimism, but unless all measures are taken to approach the completion of the property's legal relationship, the construction of the retention dam and the closure of the project, I'm afraid they don't just leave an empty letter on paper. I appeal this way, therefore, once again to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to join the declaration of a strategic project, to Croatia's waters and other institutions, as well as to the unit of local self-government. So if we need to include both additional efforts and people in order to close down property legal relations as soon as possible, and this project has brought an end to which we have been waiting so long. The people of the Ogulina region and the carlovina County do not want to wait for a new flood, in order to update the issue. As soon as this disaster is over, we invite you to go together to finish the project. And finally, on behalf of all Ogulinians, I would like to thank both the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for their support, and we hope that we will move on to an accelerated solution to the problem next week, and that we will welcome the next rainy periods with less anxiety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u47019	Thank you. We're done discussing this after the break, and now we're going to our agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue with the work of the 5th session as announced. Here's a proposal I got from my colleagues... everything's going to be fine, just slowly, so I got a proposal from the HDZ Representatives' Club and the SDP's Club to unify the debate on points 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 to discuss them together, all related. It is about reports on the audit carried out of effective specific systems within the State, so if you agree. Does anyone object to such a proposal? If there is no meaning, we would go together with the debate for the following points: 1. The report on the effectiveness of the public procurement system carried out in companies would then be discussed separately. Third point: 3. Report on the audit carried out of the efficiency of the procurement and regularity of the use of the official vehicles of the budgetary users of the state budget, 4. Report on the review of the efficiency of mineral raw materials management, 5. Report on the performance audit carried out by the supervisory boards of companies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government, 6. Report on the effectiveness of the Jaspers programme initiative's impact on the proposals submitted by the Republic of Croatia for co-financing from the European Union funds. Everywhere is the applicant of the State Audit Office. So if we're lying then we'd go from these five points, then we'd have a debate on the report on the financial audit of the independent political parties and members of the representative bodies of the local (regional) unit and the regional self-governments selected from the list of voting groups for 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48216	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. For the period 2016-2016, the The State Audit Office has carried out an audit of the effectiveness of the public procurement system in 20 waiting entities of 17 owned by the Republic of Croatia and 3 owned by local self-government units. The period from 2013-2015 was covered. The audit found among other things, procedures were written, for planning public procurement, not adopted. Internal acts are not an orderly way of collecting needs for procurement. The procurement plans have not been adopted in due time or are not realistic and feasible. There are significant deviations, achievements compared to plans. No justification for procurement has been assessed in view of the actual needs. General acts are not governed by the obligation to report conflicts of interest as well as the mandatory content of the competition documentation. In some cases, there was no public opening of tenders, and some entities applied, a negotiating procurement procedure, without prior publication, without stating the circumstances justifying the use of the procedure. Public procurement contracts do not contain criminal provisions for unlawful delivery, and the additions to contracts for the extension of the deadlines for completion of works have been concluded after the expiry of the agreed deadline. On the basis of the audit of the facts found, the State audit estimated that the public procurement system was effective in 4 companies. In 12 effective, where certain improvements are needed and in 3 societies and one public institution was not effective and significant improvements are needed. As regards the revision of the efficiency, procurement and regularity of the use of official vehicles, budgetary users, the state budget, the subject of the audit were the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the Office for General Affairs of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the State Office for Central Public Procurement in the part of the preparation and implementation of public procurement procedures. The entities covered by the audit shall use 66% of the total number of official vehicles of all budgetary users. At the end of 2015, 6306 official vehicles were owned by 3935, 56% of all vehicles owned by more than ten years of age. The average number of miles per vehicle is already 150 thousand kilometers. The total expenditure on official vehicles for 2014 without the purchase costs for vehicles owned amounted to €272.3 million, and in 2015. 232.9 million kuna. The average cost per vehicle was slightly less than 44,000 kuna in 2014 and in 2015. 37,000 kuna. On the basis of the audit of the facts identified, it was assessed that the purchase and correctness of the use of official vehicles is partly effective. I will only list some of the facts set out in this review below. The users did not establish the indicative number of vehicles needed to carry out their activities, nor did they determine the eligibility of purchases in view of the part-cycle and type of operations for which the official vehicle is supplied, and did not prescribe the methods and conditions for the renewal of the rolling stock. Furthermore, the estimated number of kilometres in the purchase of vehicles through an operational rental is not realistically planned. The method of use of official vehicles is not fully normatively arranged, and in addition, no cost-effectiveness of the purchase via an operational lease has been reconsidered prior to purchase. Registrations of the use of official vehicles are not kept or do not contain all the necessary information. The State Audit Office has drawn attention to the experiences of other countries which apply a centralised model of management and availability to increase efficiency and regularity of use of official vehicles, as well as the system of satellite surveillance of the movement of official vehicles. We also proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to review the July 2009 conclusion, according to which budget users can only purchase vehicles through operational Leasing. According to this recommendation, the government acted and in March this year adopted guidelines for managing the fleet. In addition, we have proposed that the conditions and methods of use of permanently assigned official vehicles be regulated in the light of the tasks carried out and the way in which the procurement procedures are carried out. Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs and advocates, the office also carried out 21 audits of the efficiency of mineral raw materials management. The audit covers business between 2013 and 2015 in the bodies responsible for the management of mineral raw materials, 20 offices of the state administration in the county and in the city of Zagreb, Ministry of Finance, Customs Administration, Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Agriculture. It was estimated that the management of mineral raw materials in nine state administrations in the counties was effective, requiring certain improvements, and in all other bodies it was partially effective. Among other things, the audit found that certain rules and a new Strategy for the management of mineral raw materials were not adopted, the Ministry of Economy did not establish a single information system of mineral raw materials, full records of mining economic operators and of the requested research spaces and fields of exploitation. Some offices in the county do not keep a register of investigative premises and exploitation fields or do not lead them in a prescribed manner. For individual investigative premises and exploitation fields, a fixed part of the fee is not charged or charged, and the authorities do not provide the public administration offices with a report on the research carried out and a request for the identification of the exploitation fields. The economy ministry did not activate the guarantees or take measures to force the collection. State administration offices in the counties did not provide guarantees for rehabilitation costs, and in some cases the resolution was not even implemented. The Republic of Croatia has not passed a new Geological Research Act but has been in force since 1986. It is also not regulated to draw up basic geological maps and their funding which are the basis for the planning and use of natural resources or the award of concessions. I would like to emphasise here that the Ministry of Economy has accepted the recommendations and adopted a plan stating that it will take action to implement them as soon as possible. Furthermore, during 2016 we also audited the effectiveness of the work of supervisory committees in 99 companies owned by local units in 20 counties and in the City of Zagreb. This revision found that no tasks, powers and responsibilities of the Supervisory Board were arranged in certain societies in the internal act. The criteria and rules for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards and members of the Management Boards and the obligations of the Management Boards are not regulated. No members of the board of directors were selected in certain societies through a public tender or by no supervisory committees involved in their selection. In some societies, the level of the remuneration for the work of members of the Supervisory Board was not appropriate in view of the outcome of the company’s business or financial situation. The management of certain companies did not report on the profitability of the business, and the Supervisory Boards did not submit annual reports to the congregations. On the basis of the audit of the facts established, it was assessed that 29 companies effectively supervised the management of operations in 29 companies, 65 companies were effectively monitored but certain improvements were needed. In 4 companies, supervisory committees have not effectively monitored and significant improvements are needed. For one company, it is estimated that the Supervisory Board did not effectively monitor the conduct of the procedure. In all these audits, the office has made a number of recommendations, which would certainly increase the efficiency of public use. The State Audit Office also carried out an audit of the effectiveness of the Jaspers programme initiative on project proposals submitted by the Republic of Croatia for co-financing from EU funds. The audit was carried out in cooperation with the European Court of Auditors and the State Audit Office of the Republic of Poland with a view to transfer of knowledge and experience to the area of audit of public funds and funds from EU funds. Jaspers is an independent and advisory body of the European Commission helping users prepare projects to withdraw funds from EU funds to better prepare projects at all stages, helping to develop strategic documents and strengthen administrative capacity. The Republic of Croatia became a beneficiary of Jaspers in 2011 by signing the Cooperation Agreement with the European Commission and the European Investment Bank. The revision covers 4 ministries of the Croatian Water, CARNET, University of Rijeka, Croatian Roads, Croatian Railways and Infrastructure and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. On the basis of the audit of the established facts, the State Audit Office has assessed that the impact of Jaspers on projects financed by the EU funds is partly effective. Since the audit entities do not fully comply with the required competences and responsibilities, which have affected the effectiveness of the Jaspers recommendation and thus the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. The State Audit Office made the following recommendations among other things: Audit entities should carry out a detailed assessment of the needs before including projects in the action plan, and adopt written procedures to set priorities in the selection of projects to assist Jaspers. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds should regularly update action plans, establish the actual status of Jaspers' tasks, or coordinate the data with all competent authorities, and regularly forward the updated data to Jasper. The audit entities should clearly identify areas where the necessary skills for independent work have been acquired in order to focus Jaspers' assistance on topics which cannot be prepared on their own, and to regularly document the activities carried out, cooperation with Jaspers in order to effectively monitor the impact of Jaspers. All of these recommendations, therefore, are given with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of Jaspers' impact, which should also have an impact on the more successful withdrawal of funds from EU funds in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48217	I thank the Chief State Auditor. We have six replicas. The first one's a respected colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48218	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Klešić, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to commend these reports that you delivered to the Croatian Parliament. You've really done one big job, and I think it's an example of how other institutions in this country should do their job. And I think the State's Attorney's Office can draw some conclusions from this information. What concerns me is that almost 7 out of 10 kuna is an inefficient public procurement for that money, 7 out of 10 kuna, if we take that there is Croatian Road and Croatian Radio and if we add up their public procurement values, then it is one worrying data for the Republic of Croatia. You've detected, you've listed everything that needs to be removed. However, the question is now being asked, I of course, you are not a politician, perhaps you can answer that or not. But I want to ask you now whether it's a matter of expertise, that the problem is that we don't have enough expertise in such companies or that we deliberately don't have enough expertise to do this kind of thing. I understand if in municipalities, small municipalities and you have in this report and stated how you recommend that one person must have a certificate. If you do not have this professional staff in small municipalities, but I cannot believe that in Croatian roads, Croatian broadcasting does not have such a frame because it is simply incomprehensible to me especially because of the large amounts. And finally to conclude this replica. So all we have today and the great problems we have in Croatian society and the departure of young people and everything that happens is also the result of such public procurement. Because to paraphrase Archimedes when he said if you give me a long enough lever and a good foothold, I'll raise the ground. Give me a good contract and see how I get a good contract or concession in public, so you can see how in 10 years that Abramovic yacht will be my lifeboat on my yacht. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48219	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48220	Well, here's what we do with the State Audit. I think you listened very carefully and you said almost everything we pointed out. I'd just say that as far as we're concerned from the State Audit, we think it's one lack of responsibility after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48221	Second replica, MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your esteemed reports are always broadly thorough and suggest in this case, here's the public procurement you always repeat the same story, which is essentially what it is, however, is always a question, which is always a matter of responsibility for those who carry out this procurement and direct it to the State's Attorney's office and other institutions. But the fact is, either you have the information, how far these illegalities have been solved or these criminal acts surrounding public procurement by the judicial authorities. That's it. Has the State's Attorney's office taken any action, do you have any information return to your audits on public procurement? You also mentioned mineral raw materials, here in my Cetin area, it only deals with concessions of mineral raw materials and mining recovery, but not mining, was an attempt to resuscitate mines along the Cetina River, industrial waste from the Long War, which was ecologically unconscious, and of course they wanted to resuscitate that waste into that mine, which caused damage to the immeasurable and drinking water of Cetini and the whole case essentially pro-active from the head, from the ministry and county offices where you cited the fact that in this case the county favours being criminal. That criminals exploit our fields, as they wish. What are those inspections doing? This is what you proved not to do your job. Therefore, the fact is that in this case the county is its own purpose and that it is working to harm our citizens and our resources that should be for the purpose of all of us, and not just a concession for their likes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48223	Thank you. Replication response, Chief State Auditor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48224	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I will try to answer your question as soon as possible. So, as for the criminal acts that you mentioned at the very beginning of your replica, I could only say that the State Audit Office is doing absolutely respecting all legal procedures, that means that I am not now listing everything from the planning of the audit, the work of the audit on the ground, the writing of the report, the submission of the report to the subject of the audit, the publication of the report on our website, the delivery of reports to the Croatian Assembly and the delivery of reports to the State's attorney. So, the further action, absolutely not in the domain of the State Audit, that's how our business ends. So we deliver to the State's Attorney's Office our report, deliver, if there is a suspicion by the State's auditors of the execution of criminal acts, we provide copied documentation, which we also hand over to the State's Attorney's office for the day's conduct. The colleagues from the State's Attorney's Office have their working methodologies and they further decide what to do with these cases. We, they are not obliged to provide us with information, so they are colleagues from the State's Attorney's Office, submitting a report to the High House, where then the High House accepts the report or refuses as much as ours. Furthermore, as regards parts of responsibility, i.e. irresponsibility, in carrying out orders and recommendations of the State Audit, I must stress here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted an analytical reform programme. In this context, at the request of the European Commission, criminal provisions shall also be taken for all those entities which will not implement the recommendations of the State Audit, the Criminal... So that's where the order is introduced, and I believe that then in all segments it will work better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. cress
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48225	Thank you. Three replicas, dear fellow Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48226	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, your reports are truly extensive, with very much detail, one should make an effort to read it, but they are transparent, written, therefore, stylish, grammatically, all well. However, I would like to warn you of some details that seem to have missed in this report. When I audited the use of official cars, I didn't notice the data, and who pays the traffic tickets? So, if the official cars, which in Croatia have a huge number, so 9500 and the driver commits a traffic violation, who pays the offense? Is he paying for the driver or is he paying for it from the state budget? In fact, it has been shown that often these penalties are paid from budgets, budgets, so that this model of payment encourages haughtiness, both drivers and drivers of those driving in cars, so if you could answer that question for me. We also saw that the number of cars is huge, that they are spent annually from the budget, about half a billion kuna, without these cars crossing the estimated mileage. So the number of estimated kilometers is greater than the number of kilometers that were actually made. Could you make some savings there, so it's five or ten percent. It'd probably be a lot. I'm glad this debate is being heard by our President of the Parliament, and we have, in fact, a special item, that drivers are available 24 hours a day. Here, we managed to find out from your report that even the Secretary of Parliament has a driver available 24 hours, so I'd like to hear the arguments for what reason it is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48227	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48228	Your Honor, as far as paying for traffic violations, we don't have this knowledge, I have to admit, but I do know in a way that we operate in the State Audit, anyone who does, means the person who commits a traffic violation, it's the police, or the Ministry of the Interior, the traffic police register and deliver us in a written report. We must then deliver the name and name of the person who operated the car. That person who ran the car pays the fine, not the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48229	Thank you. 4 replicas, esteemed colleague Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48230	Dear President of the Parliament. I will refer to part of the report relating to the business of companies in the Republic of Croatia 20 with the value of public procurement of more than eight billion kuna. So in your report here, you concluded that some companies in the public procurement sector were partially efficient, i.e. in four companies such as the Croatian Roads, which we warned about the public procurement system was not effective and significant improvements were needed. As a representative in the Croatian Parliament, as a whole of the Croatian people, we are interested in how many suspicions there have been in every act of the State Audition and how many billions or millions of Croatian kunas have gone to corruption and potential malversions in companies. That's what we'd like to know here. So people can't paint and throw dust into the eyes of some of the recommendations that you wrote here, which I'm totally agreeing might be good, but the recommendations draw attention from the real problem, which is what corruption is and what crime is going on in the background, who is billions and millions of Croatian kunas disappear and who are stealing. It's perfectly normal today for HDZ's chief to be served with 800,000 kunas from ATMs in a war-torn Shkabrnja while the dust is being thrown into people's eyes here. Why is he hiding the truth? Why is the truth about Agrokor hiding? Why has the Watch Committee of Television been replaced so that the television can write news of how they match the ruling ones? Why is it that people are poisoning themselves with false and irrelevant information to hide the true truth?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48231	Thank you. Here you go, pal Klesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48232	Your Honor, I think we'll agree with that. Orders need to be introduced, and it's perfectly clear to everyone. What we're doing is the State Review, so we have a preventive role, that's the key. I'm sorry, you can't say any recommendations, I know that you may have said this in one way, but these are recommendations that, given this national reform programme that I mentioned, be sure that those who won't implement those recommendations will be severely sanctioned because they will have to identify the persons who will be in charge of implementing these recommendations, and then, of course, will reduce the possibility of carrying out certain criminal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48233	Thank you. Fifth Replicated fellow Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48234	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Klesic. I'd like to join my predecessors' praises for the report you gave us here, and I'm joining it. However, in your presentation and materials I will say slightly that they are worrying about what is written inside, your findings and you have indeed made it the way it is. There's a public procurement mess here, the system doesn't work, there's no necessary analysis, there's a lot to be lost in it, and the estimates I made here last year when there was a public procurement debate is that by introducing automated public procurement, it could save more than two billion kunas without interventions. I would ask you clearly human, how do you feel as one of the few institutions of government in the service of this government and citizens who works well, when your reports that are full of findings, which point to clientelism, corruption, crime, when they don't go without consequence and does it make sense to audit those public companies in the public sector where you've already identified similar and the same mistakes of failures and even corrupt actions? So I know that you can't change things, it's not your job, but how do you feel as experts of people who work in such an institution, and you can't influence it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48235	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48236	Dear Representative Lovrinović. How we from the State Audit feel when we see a lot of things passing by, and we really do our job very honestly and very professionally, respecting the code... of the ethics of the work of the state auditors. What we all have to do, I've said it a few times on boards, and that's that responsibility to this country, which means that every one of us who gets paid has to do his job fairly, that's what I'd say that's beyond that. Everyone needs to do their job, it's the interest of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48237	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48238	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Chief State Auditor with his associates. So you gave an excellent introduction to this job that your colleagues did, who was reading the reports, could see the systematicity, the clear methodological approaches to what was continuity in that I find, so many things can be compared. But from the beginning of these replicas and this debate I think you forgot one key thing, you did write it inside, but you should have pointed out, for which period these findings were made State audits because some colleagues are discussing who someone else was at that time in power. And it's easy to politicize here, but these audit reports refer to a specific period. And for that period, if we are already calling for political responsibilities, then we should call on those rather than invite others to whom this does not apply. So there are some things about negativity that, unfortunately, are in continuity. But given what he wants to show here and because of the Croatian public, I think you missed the key thing to say, which is what time period these audit reports were made for, and I'll talk about some things more when I speak for the club. Because it is not in our interest to politicise around this finding, but simply raised to a higher level of use of property and resources both Croatian states and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48239	Thank you. Not if there's no need, it's not necessary. Yeah, okay. Okay. That's what we came up with at the end of the line. I'm calling now if there are any interested committee rapporteurs I've called, who've held a hearing. If not, then we'll move on to a club debate. The first was the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and counterpart Kreso Beljak. Unfortunately, there's no Kresha Whiteman, so let's move on to another club. It is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and the Honorable Tandem Panenić – Dobrović. The first one goes to fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48240	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected state auditors with associates. Here's a package we should discuss today. Of course the topics are similar, they're the subject of your actions, but when everything goes into the depth of all actually findings, then you can see how wide the subject is and how much we could discuss. And if we were to discuss here not for one day, but for a whole week, maybe only then would we have high-quality, good conclusions we'll try here in this united part to be as concrete as possible. I'll just say about the effectiveness of the public procurement system one statement that has been made here at the county assembly at my place is one council on my proposal, where I said that there is an extremely large number of leniency purchases that occur in trade societies both with me in the county, probably in other regional self-government, even local self-governments and at state level where no one plans to purchase, no one asks for equal purchases, no one really wants to after this statement that these purchases can be more efficient, lower prices by rounding to achieve better conditions, better effects, ultimately to spend less public money. And then the statement was that the combined procurement was illegal, anti-statutory to all statutes which were prescribed powers, and it was questionable how much savings there was at that level. When we start with this fact that someone who's a councilman in the county assembly, and also a director of an institution, then you realize that we have to start starting to seem like we're starting to educate people all over again. Because this way we can discuss here. You'll do quality tests. I've also read to you that that's exactly what's being mentioned and then finally the result is that people don't understand or really don't want to understand, so they're trying to create their own world. And it's actually one fact that by reading all the audit reports we realize that the revision, the State Review comes in, makes a finding in which you really see a lot of certain I would say irregularities that are proposed to be corrected. When they come second, one part, especially those who are the most problematic doesn't change. It just hasn't changed, because they think they can do it because sanctioning wasn't done properly. Tomorrow we will have a debate on the Law on Audit as long as there is a state of mind that the State Audit puts an unfavourable or conditional opinion and that nothing changes, we will always have such discussions. We're gonna have a lot of problems. And then by amending the Public Procurement Act that was made, we're actually not going to achieve anything because we can break the law. Of course, we could go into the depths of all the public procurement findings here, but we've talked so much about public procurement, it's so much in this House that it's already been said that this day stands as a fact, and I'm afraid it's going to be repeated as long as we don't give the State Audit Office the tools that they can carry out certain sanctions. Here I shared with my colleague Dobrovic, and then from this part he would switch to the effectiveness of actually the supervisory boards of companies. This is one problem that I think is even more important, because in the end, if we want to discuss companies as our successes, then not only will we name administrations, board members, management presidents who are professional, who are good, who can run or improve the situation, but they must also have people in the supervisory committees who can first help them with their expertise, and others must have all the necessary knowledge that they can also find irregularities that occur in the management of companies. Unfortunately, it has been appointed to a commercial society primarily a political issue. It seems that it has become an honor to be present locally in a company owned by whether the Republic of Croatia or some lower level is proposed and that at least it takes care of how much that person will have knowledge I would say first financial, second expertise, third legal knowledge. Did we set the criteria, that there should be people on these supervisory boards who can read financial reports. If we were to go here now to the supervisory boards, I'd say let's take a lot of companies to ask a little bit about economic knowledge, about financial knowledge, about reading annual reports, I'd be sure that the result would be devastating. And then why should we even complain here about certain failures and irregularities when we didn't name people there ourselves who should actually be the most professional, take care of the legality of the company's business. And then it happens to us that actually the Supervisory Boards are formal to confirm the decisions made by the administration, and the result is again in a report where the State Audit warns that even the Supervisory Board, which should be led, takes into account the legality of the conduct of the entire company, that they do not act in accordance with the law. Therefore, the resolution of the issue ultimately comes down to both public procurement and the appointment of supervisory authority to people. We can prescribe whatever act we want here, unless it's taken care of that there will be people who have a responsibility, who will enforce the law the way it's written. This will all remain a letter on paper. Therefore, I believe that these two topics should be discussed in both law-making and determining how our own, whether it is now the minister, the resolution minister, whether it is the Minister of State Property, eventually the whole government when it appoints our representatives, that we can really call on a member of the Supervisory Board, when it comes to some company, to audit a company, to ask him, what made the difference between the position of the State Audit and the Supervisory Board that should practically do the same work as the State Audit did. And for this reason, it is disappointing in these reports to read a whole series of remarks that the State Audit has made, and if something is not denied, I fear it will become a key cause why our companies do not function, why our public procurement system is ineffective, because with the best intention, here I have prepared this law, at the end of the term of this government, we will not achieve the effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48241	Now, a respected colleague, Dobrović, will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48242	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament. Dear Mr Klesic with his associates, esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. A united debate for this kind of thing, I mean five big points, which really require attention, is I think something that's not very good, so in this short time, we really need to point out what we're holding the strongest. I will use my time to discuss the revision of mineral raw materials management. What he says in any case all your findings are also, here I join the praises, these are documents very concisely designed and well organized, clear and I think you should use them to the fullest extent. So, what's the report on the audit report, therefore, the management of mineral raw materials. So, first of all, all the regulations and rules, and the new strategy of management of mineral raw materials, have not been adopted at all. Likewise, neither does any regulation within the prescribed time limit. It is interesting to learn that the Ministry of Economy did not form a unique information system for mineral raw materials. Full records in mining economic operators, and search areas and fields of exploitation. Some offices of the state administration, in the counties, in the municipalities, are running a register of research spaces of exploitation fields. There's no complete record in the search for investigative premises. There is no collection of documents, no list of mining operators or such lists is properly managed. Furthermore, the Ministry of Economy has no rules at all, procedures, for drawing up tender documents for the award of concessions. In certain procedures, the bidders did not meet the prescribed conditions and criteria, yet selection decisions were made, which is very interesting. The rules under which points will be assigned within certain criteria are not set again. For individual explored spaces, exploitation fields, the fixed part of the fee is not charged or charged. Some investigative space authorities did not provide, within the prescribed time limit, reports carried out by the state administration’s offices carried out by investigative works, which they were obliged to do. In addition, certain offices did not provide the users with documentation on the basis of which they would establish a claim record in their books. The Ministry of Economy does not check the regular validity of the guarantees provided or provided. These did not send any warnings, take measures, forced charges, or activate guarantees. Nor is the Ministry of Economy, there are enough employees of mining inspectors to carry out quality supervision. And these mining inspectors who work don't keep records in the prescribed way are eyewitnesses in electronic form. According to the data provided, on the other hand, certain units of local self-government have knowledge of the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials in their territory, and have also been reported by the competent ministries, the mining inspection of the State's Attorney's Office. However, during the ban, the exploitation of sand and gravel in the Republic of Croatia since 2009-2013, but after 2013, large quantities of sand and gravel in the riverbeds on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which continue to be unexploded on the basis of the concession agreement, have been imposed. For part of the exploitation fields for which concessions were granted, the county administration’s offices did not obtain guarantees for the costs of recovery. It is interesting to read that in carrying out surveillance from 2013-2015, a mining inspection has not established that mining works are contrary to research approval, which includes the recovery of the investigative space, that there have been no extraordinary rehabilitation works. According to the state administration's office in the county, in part of the research spaces of the exploitation and fields for which the solutions... have been abolished or the execution of mining works has been suspended, the recovery of the space has not been carried out. We also heard the law on geological research in the report, and we can read it, dating back to 1986, and it's absolutely out of line with time. What can be concluded? So the overall score is partly effective, it's actually just the second worst grade. However, this sounds actually not so bad and hides the defeating state in which the management of mineral raw materials is located in the Republic of Croatia. Because what reasons may exist is that the information system is not organised, that there are no clear and well-defined procedures for awarding concessions, that no selection decisions are made, or that there are no conditions, that certain fees are not even accounted for, let alone payments, that there are no concerns about the validity of guarantees, that there are insufficient numbers of mining inspectors, and that there are no measures to do so, that there are no rehabilitations, that there is no permit to exploit gravel and sand on the rivers, this is particularly important for our border rivers where the neighbour is interesting that it does, of course, sand and gravel migrate when it is taken out on one side of the trough and Croatia is persistently buying that material from our neighbours. Therefore, inspections over several years have not established the management of counter-approval, while at the same time individual units of local self-government have been reporting to competent institutions on illegal exploitation. It's obvious that for years there's been massive financial damage to the Republic of Croatia systematically. Of course, some of the participants in this system are doing extremely well. So there is definitely nelado, negligentness, carelessness, irresponsibility here, but there is certainly corruption here, therefore corruption which is the main reason for such long-term maintenance of such a defeated system. I therefore call on all competent institutions to take a good look at this report and take the necessary steps. Inaction, failure, taking steps by competent institutions must indeed not be allowed because, of course, we all advocate responsible and advanced society. However, in addition to avoiding direct financial damages to the state and illegal benefits for individuals, there is another significant effect here, of course, on the environmental and environmental effects. We must all remind ourselves that mineral raw materials are non-renewable resources, once created are now available and exploiting them irretrievably destroys or exhausts them. So today, there is often a reference to the syntagma of sustainable development, sustainable society, and this is exactly the area with great potential to raise the degree of sustainability of society. So if we want to leave this world of ours, this country at least with a similar look and the potential of our children, here is the space for activity. I will also say that in Croatia over two million tonnes of construction waste is produced annually and very little recycling is done in Croatia. The goal that we set for ourselves is 70%, and that's because it's created quite in a separate way, it's now possible to recycle. But it is also a great opportunity for the government to spend so - called. the integrated policy, therefore, with the efficiency of the mineral raw materials management system on one hand visible, recommendations are very well stated in the report. There are also what can be added, which is waste management that is very good at relying on this problem by making a very good picture or opportunity for the development of the Republic of Croatia. Of course the Bridge Club will accept this report. I will now say a few more words about the report of effectiveness of using the Jaspers programme initiative. So it is an instrument of EU assistance to raise the efficiency of the use of European funds. There are also very nice and concise recommendations that can raise that efficiency so that everything that needs to be done follows them. However, I will add a few more words that it is very good that the work of preparing projects is done by professional people, who know what needs to be done because it must not happen to Jaspers employees in their area in their area in their responsibilities of guru and policy making or defining a solution that I personally as a minister could witness when particularly in the field of waste management. So we're the ones who create solutions, we're the ones who do that. we choose responsibly, of course, in the context of the general good for citizens and the Republic of Croatia. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48243	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one's a respected colleague, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48244	Thank you very much. We are talking about mineral raw materials, essentially, about concessions like you said that should be their exploitation of the tribune be exclusively in the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia because it is a non-refundable resource. The fact that we have a number of early miners who have been left behind, and they are not solved by mining projects, and I repeat that again, mainly in areas where people are evicted, is what they're doing to you, and that's what the audit states that the county office is not doing its job, the Ministry of the Environment is not doing, i.e. institutions within the ministry do not do their job. They're dealing with how to dump waste into these mines and make money on waste disposal. I will give you an example when the government was still there, meaning HDZ during Sanader and after Milanovic and Kosoricin. They intended the industrial cost I repeat, you as a man who from the profession are an industrial cost from the Long War, a factory of ferrolegures to decide in the mining industry as a change of sanaci material along the Cetina River where they would receive a ton of 50 euros. They've got a deal for you that's been negotiated, that junk mob. So the alteration of the sanaci material, where it's listed in the recovery lab where there can't be iron, no metal would be damaged by sources at all. They're through changes in the recovery of this, what, that revision triba sees a disposal of the waste into our wounds. So di triba to resuscitate the miner, they delay the most dangerous waste that harms the waters, mostly the groundwaters in the debris. It's uncontrollable. Or who's controlling them, or who's still charging for them. We've been able to stop it because we've organized civil action and that's why... Thirty criminal charges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the ministry gave them both solutions neatly and Mladneo and these others. They did it very well. It means crime within the Ministry itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48245	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48246	Thank you very much, Comrade Bull. Yeah, you got a good shot at the problem. In fact, one of the major problems with mineral raw materials is non-recovery. So part of the exploitation process is definitely the recovery of space. This report clearly shows that individual concessionaries had and still have unusually comfortable operating conditions, i.e. they do not have to fulfil their obligations at all. However, they do not even have an account for what they are obliged to pay, i.e. Croatia is probably losing billions of kuna here. On the other hand, we hear a constant discussion about how another kuna needs to be touched, so taxes are invented, and here individuals are allowed to make unusually high amounts for a long time, so they are actually illegal because they are not fully done. It's a matter of responsibility. First, I would encourage all of us to seek responsible behavior from all officials and to finally change the situation where young people conclude in this country nothing can or can be expected. So, people who haven't issued a concession payment solution are responsible for something. Also, you mentioned the recovery of that, so I don't know about that particular case. Of course, the choice of sanaci material needs to be carefully monitored and that the study that must be associated with this must justify it. The study is signed by people with a name and a last name and can also be called to their responsibility. So, today, people are easily signing things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48247	Thank you. Second replica of the esteemed colleague Andrija Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48248	An esteemed colleague, as far as the proceedings were concerned, and in the ministry you led, certain permits were given for the proceedings. That was a zero step towards the concession. You have a fixed and variable cost. So there's no charge for having to pay for something. You've got a meter of cubic and per-busy surface. As for the strategy, I hope I've read a good report from the state auditor. In 2008, a strategy for the management of mineral raw materials of the Republic of Croatia was adopted and lasted up to two thousand and some years. So I hope those are the same documents. When talking about a mining inspection, then you should know and you're right, a dozen are on average mining inspectors but they have their jurisdiction. When you talk about gravel and sand from the river, it was under the authority of Croatian waters and still is. There's something called a renewable, something called an unrenewable source. We have mining inspectors in charge of these others. Otherwise, the 2013 law said that in early 2016 it was taken over from the county offices, from the county authorities, and you described it nicely because you said Dubrovnik-Neretvaska and Vukovar-Srijemska that the ministry had taken over a number of items. But that's what I'm gonna do when I'm on behalf of the club as well as in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48249	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48250	Thank you very much, dear colleague Mikulić. So, I'm familiar with it, and I've read that there's also a 2008 Strategy. However, this strategy must certainly be renewed, it must be a newer date and must be in the spirit of a new time. I didn't say there were no services, inspectors, offices that didn't do a good job. In addition, it is beautifully stated that there are seven offices, i.e. an effective rating with the possibility of raising, so not the best ones and these other 12 or 13, so the worse ones, so where better improvements are sought. So what I read from the report, that it actually screams in a quiet way for improvement. So we can't cut our hands and read it, put it down and move on. Let things go. So there's a big room for improvement that's in the interest of all of us. I don't mean to point fingers here or there. So, I don't think that's the answer to this or that, but that condition is definitely not allowed and we need to see in a very short time what's going on to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48251	Third replica, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48252	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Dobrović, you mentioned here a very important word that is somehow going through these replicas and discussions. I think the chief state auditor mentioned today, which is expertise, expertise and responsibility. I'm convinced that we have a lot of professional people, and here we see in the State Audit, we see that you as a minister were an expert man, and I have no doubt many others who work on these jobs, and they are also related to the determination of concessions, certain wealth, whether or not mineral, whether oil, gas. However, what seems to me is the same way that we have one systemic error in our system, in general as the people, as well as society. And now it's unclear to me, I remember from one cartoon, one saying, when that main character said, when I get it together, I take it all away. Says the State Audit in its report that a fee should be raised for the amount of hydrocarbons obtained, which is small, 10%. The country's environmental allegations, according to reasons, say some countries have also introduced a profit tax for the activities of hydrocarbon expansion research. But what happens then. The economy ministry is no longer in charge, energy, that part. They say we have nothing to do with it anymore. And then the Ministry of Environmental Protection explains, is, but we signed a contract, a deal to share hydrocarbons, and then it says, "Be careful what's most tragic, that the Ministry of Environmental Protection says that these increases in compensation will detimise the investor." The Ministry of Environmental Protection spoke of detimizing investors. The Ministry of Environment must worry about environmental protection and the increase in compensation if it is excessive, and you have stated here, elementary mathematics, 10% of 50% is 5%, and 12% of 50% is 6%. 6% is more than 5%, and that 1% can be a significant part of the funds that will then be in the state register. This debate is very broad, so I apologize, I'm having a little communication with the State Audit, but the replica was addressed to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48253	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48254	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So professionalism is definitely needed, so people who work in this business must be professional. However, it is very good that they are responsible. It is not necessarily promoted to each person, it is another property, but I think that for the performance, any responsible functions are definitely the heads of these offices, so those in charge of issuing a solution must be both professional and responsible. Of course, there is a strong space for increasing the income of the Republic of Croatia and I do not see a reason why this is thoroughly not audited and that the environment, in the conditions of business, as it exists in local countries, is then raised accordingly, rather than always seeking to raise, increase revenues, always on the burden of citizens that are most easily covered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48255	Thank you. Four replicas, dear fellow Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48256	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, chief state auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Dobrovic, you have devoted most of the debate to the management of mineral raw materials. It's really an interesting and slightly wider subject. Because it's not just about the exploitation of these mineral raw materials. With this exploitation, of course, the lives of people and cattle, the end of the environment, and of course the use of roads. All those exploitation fields aren't on highways or state roads. They're a little on the side. And in order to make use of these mineral exploitations and raw materials at all, the most commonly used are unclassified or local roads. We've seen from the review report, that the new concessionaries are giving off the comms. They allow themselves a lot of things, the inspection is a little on the ground or not responding and that should be a little bit more on the field of inspection surveillance, but certainly should take care of these road crashes. And of course, later and how these fields are rescheduled. Whether or not they have been rescheduled according to the terms of the permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48257	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48258	Thank you very much, dear fellow Uncle. I agree that certainly in defining the conditions of business for concessionaires, questions concerning local communities should be covered, because it is not simple, for some local environment, to accept the fact that through a settlement, therefore, on a road that is not intended at all, a large number of trucks or anything else, no. So, definitely solving the problem of this, so the use of mineral raw materials should be done and including this program that you've been talking about. Of course inspection and all the expensive, therefore, I think we can create opportunities in Croatia to master these mineral raw materials in an effective way, fortunately and gratifying everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48259	Five replicas, dear colleague Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48260	Dear fellow Dobrovic, it may sound strange, but as head of the unit of local self-government, I literally loved it when I had a state audit, unlike the previous discussions, because after each finding of the State Fairs regardless of its condition, conditional or unconditional were some recommendations. And what was most important, in one place I had an accurate overview of everything that was going on in my unit of local self-government in the domain of my responsibility. And this is exactly what the State Audits finds show us here as well. What I've reported for the replica is something that this state's audit has listed in its reports and what you've pointed out. So we have 2 related to the exploitation of mineral raw materials we have 2 completely, in my opinion, unreasonable things, which should certainly be improved. We have a unit of local self-government that uses material from digs in its area, with me, let's say, specifically right now, a case of 400,000 cc's of material that we need for the day-to-day construction and expansion of the business zone and procedure is clear there. It's a mineral raw material we're going towards DUUDI, a request, a contract, the council approves of me signing a value greater than one million kuna. ... The second extreme is exactly the same in my area, but also throughout Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means recovery through exploitation, and we're saying we have too many official cars, we're saying we have too many employees. How many mining inspectors we have who can control it in the way the local self-government unit often criticized does. I also know exactly in every city and municipality if DUUDI has approved 100,000 cc's of material where, when and how it is built and on what location it is. What about such quarrys that are all over Croatia and what about this issue of recovery through exploitation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48261	Thank you. Yeah, but come on, come on, it's not exactly by the book, if you're interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48262	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. I cannot answer your question specifically because it really is not my area, but I agree that all aspects should be seen and that the situation needs to be improved. So a good part of it is written in the audit report, and, of course, part of it can contribute to the head of the local self-government unit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48263	Thank you. And the last replica, dear colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48264	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Dobrović, you have well opened this debate as well as in the report of the State Audit on mineral raw materials and their exploitation from our rivers from Drava, Sava, Danube, Une, and this is a problem that has damaged the Republic of Croatia, and it is being threatened by the Nature Protection Act. Although the Law on Croatian Waters has changed and the possibility of exploiting mineral raw materials of our rivers has been passed in law, the Nature Protection Act prevents them from exploiting and this matter which is so rich that we imported from Republika Srpska, from the Republic of Serbia from the Danube, from the Republic of Hungary to our roads especially to Corrido 5C. The value is total even to Neretva himself where the delta is blocked. I wonder what you've done if you haven't solved the Nature Protection Act to make it possible, and not those bird and butterfly guards conditioned that it couldn't be exploited because the birds nested on some sort of... in our rivers. And that's why it's a huge amount of damage that's been done, and it goes through tens and more years since the depletion of the possibility of exploitation even though the Waterway Agency was obliged and necessary to perform all the exploitations that would clean up the troughs of our rivers that have grown almost two metres away. And that's one of the reasons they happen and flood. So we can't build inscriptions to the sky, and the crusts will grow since they're carried by water and material... Neighbors received consent from the Croatian Waters for exploitation and normally the material migrated. If you dig a hole a meter from the border in the river... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48265	Thank you, colleague Djapic. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48266	Thank you very much. What I've been doing, I've had more meetings where I've tried to gather more resistors and solve the problem, and I have to admit that I wasn't satisfied with the success of such inter-resor work. Part of the reason was lack of interest or perhaps understanding of complex problems. Most of the time, there's an area, so several ministers are here together now to see how long it's gonna take your ministers to sit down at your table and settle it immediately. I was trying and there were more ad hoc positions where they were made. secure local operating permits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48267	Thank you. No more replicas, so let's move on to the next debate. It's a Club of Representatives of the SDP esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. No colleagues, Maras, then he loses his right to speak. I just want to warn you of one thing here, it's similar to what happened to the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. The right to speak, so I read the provision of Rule 233 of the Rules of Procedure. "Right to speak on the subject of daily work for which he applied for losses and a club of representatives whose representative was not present in the hall when he was called to speak on behalf of the club of representatives." So the whole club and two HSS and SDP clubs can no longer participate in this debate. We move on to the next club of representatives, it is the club of HDZ representatives Trio Šuker, Mikulić, Horvat. Here's your friend Shuker first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48268	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. State Auditors with an associate and associate. So there are five reports ahead of us, reports that unfortunately, and in this debate, have obviously not reached out in the way that we should be reached by parliamentary representatives. Thus, in his opening part, the State Auditor explained in a core way what had been established. However, what is very important is to say that the revision of these five findings of the State Audit and the revision of certain processes of the use of state money and state property management. Later on, in my part of the debate, I will look back at every finding in particular, but in principle, any finding can be concluded with two sentences. What I, as a parliamentary representative and a man who was in executive power, constantly expect will happen in this House that after such reports and after such parliamentary discussions we will come to the conclusion whether certain legal provisions are not good and should be changed and whether the process of responsibility in implementing certain laws and the process of spending the state budget and managing state property is not good. That's a key question to me. We can effectively score today as some have tried, so they forgot that this report refers to the period of power when they were. Or it was very interesting to listen to this morning at these press conferences that are now happening in the Parliament, when it comes to tax changes. They forgot that in their four-year term, they had 48 amendments to their legal taxes. The biggest tragedy, however, that these conclusions, the findings of the State Audits, affect all political options. Because when you look at a little bit, you move a little bit of this state segment and come to the report on the work of the supervisory boards of companies owned by units of local self-government, more or less, except for one or two political options all policy options participate in the processes. But when you put on a common denominator then you'll see that more or less everyone does somehow equal mistakes. And that's why I think that in this House of Highs and the HDZ Club, that's how they're going to debate this way, even though they might use a political position, it's not the time when we're in power to score. But I think it is in our interest that some things change, that some things are viewed differently, that we approach each other in such a way that we begin one message of responsibility to Croatian citizens, that we are simply aware that certain processes are not good and that we need to change them. Because when you look at colleagues and colleagues, let's say reviewing the efficiency of public procurement in companies. It all comes down to one sentence. Written procedures for planning public procurement have not been adopted. Internal acts are not a regulated way of collecting and the need to obtain, procurement plans have not been adopted in a timely manner, are not realistic and feasible and are not justified in view of the actual needs. The reading of the Public Procurement Act and all sublegal acts is now being set up. and whether public procurement can be conducted based on them, so that there may be no such anomalies or negativity. But that automatically points us to the fact that those who conduct public procurement do not adhere to the law passed by this High House. There's no third question. Today it's a member of one party, tomorrow it's a member of another political party. But to me as someone who has a certain responsibility for both the spoken word and the citizens, this question is being raised, whether we have to change the laws, whether we have to adopt some new sublegal acts, or simply introduce certain measures for people who carry out public procurement. Because let's make sure that one public procurement minister conducted by another or third in a ministry doesn't have much information about how it was done. But look if, now I'm going to switch a little analogically to companies and to the economy. You there in criminal provisions have a responsibility for a responsible person and for a legal person. If, therefore, state inspectors from various ministries or the State Inspectorate go and establish some responsibility for those who do so in companies, then the same story should be for those who do so with state money and with state property in the state administration. I don't see why it wouldn't be like that. A major review of the efficiency of purchase is the rule of using official cars. I'm impressed, here and today we heard several times not doing this inspection, it doesn't do that inspection, and most of these inspections can't work if there aren't any personal cars to use. And most of these cars and this big number, it seems big, but look at how many supervisory authorities you have across certain ministries, so you'll see how many thousands of people are, how many thousands of Croatian cops are using these cars. So when you divide it and move it out of the whole story that operating lease or operating lease cost, then you'll see that the cost of those cars is what it is. But what it is, it needs to be made more responsible for using those cars. Because if we're looking at some kind of inspection with a craftsman or a small company that has an annual turnover of 400, 500 thousand kuna that has to write that passport, then I think the same rule simply has to be for the use of state property, property units of local self-government. I see it that way. Who looks in a different way let him say it. And it's not fair to someone who's struggling to earn their salary and to secure their employees' wages, to get them to do administrative work, and at the same time, we don't have to do it in the state administration. So I'm saying, any of our findings can come down to two sentences. And we don't need to discuss it politically, but let's discuss it operationally so we can be responsible. The exploitation of mineral raw materials will be more said by my colleague Mikulic I will remain here only in one segment. Exploitation that, only we in the northern part of Croatia, and we can switch to Dalmatia, so we have these pebbles, and in Dalmatia they have quarryes. What about resuscitating those objects when the explosion stops? I think that's a key problem. Audit of the effectiveness of the work of supervisory committees in companies owned by units of local administrations. Now look here, we can discuss this State Audit report as much as we want today. But if the State Audit report didn't discuss the representative body of local self-government owned by that unit of local self-government and made certain conclusions, we can only conclude some things here. Because look, you're practically out of 98 audits, 99 audits, 99 companies supervisory boards are effective and water according to some control rules. At 65, they were effectively monitored, but they did not make all the acts, and certain improvements are needed. In the 4th Supervisory Boards, they neither effectively supervised nor did their job. However, we have the Company Act. Each company clearly defines the management obligations, clearly defines the supervisory board's obligations and clearly defines the owner's obligations. In most of these companies, and that's what I think maybe it's not good is the assembly, the mayor or the mayor or the mayor. And that's what might not be good. And maybe that's the theme when I'm talking about companies to discuss is that okay. or it's not okay. If we agree, most of us agree that's okay. Then it's okay. But when you look at it, that's what the mayor manages and disposes of. It is very interesting to review the use of an independent advisory body of the European Commission, which helps state users to withdraw funds. Now, when you have some kind of free help from someone who can provide you with real information and give you advice on how to do something, and you don't take advantage of it, and we're here to fight over how much someone has withdrawn funds from the EU, then I think we're making ourselves laughs. And let me finish, because colleagues will move on, so the HDZ Club will hold these audits. I think that the State Audit report, I think that colleagues and colleagues, that we should imagine ourselves above that provision, I spoke of it, while I was an opposition representative and while I was a minister, I will speak now, and that is the Law on fiscal responsibility and evaluations of the fiscal effects of legal change. We pay too little attention to it, and then we get the kind of irregularities that happen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48269	Thank you very much. Now the word will be taken by the esteemed MP Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48270	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected chief auditors with associates. Well, you said de facto everything about what you've done is an efficiency review, in terms of, therefore, the management of mineral raw materials in 25 bodies, in charge of management and various concession procedures. So you said nicely that in the 9 offices of the state administration in the county, the management of mineral raw materials was effective, with certain improvements needed, and in contrast, some ministries and administrations were partially effective. So you gave these entities orders and recommendations. I can say from my own experience, but I also want to publicly thank your employees. While I was part of the system, I know how you work, how much you go, I'd say deep and principled, because it's not every time that your employee is simply taught a matter that needs to be written about. Let's be honest. And then you have people on the other side who, so I'll be free to say, maybe in one part I can get around professional attitudes and educate each other to better understand that problem. But what makes me most of all happy is that within 60 days since you delivered those reports, those bodies have been manifested. And I see by what you wrote, that I don't read all of it, if they realized that they might be in steps, I'd say they were making some mistakes, but good. Who's doing this and making mistakes. I will never, but I never agree because I was in that system for 10 years, that situation 10, 12 years ago, and today it's the same. And it's not safe. So the steps are done. We can always talk about having certain situations that can be better and better and better-qualityd in one way or another, but it's about as if we're talking, that someone breaks into a kiosk at night and tells him the police don't do their job. So it's systematically going towards solutions and that's good. There were some things here. So the Ministry of Economy abolished 15 concessions. Well, for the sake of the Croatian public, let it be known. It's wiped out about 60 fields. I'll tell you later what the procedure for eradicating the individual field is. And finally, two things. First of all, I am extremely pleased that in March 2017 there was coordination between the body, at the level of the state of the DORH and various ministries, as well as you. I hope that wasn't the last meeting. And what's important about the audit, the effectiveness, so you've covered the whole process, that's good, the orders and recommendations given to the audit entities should contribute, among other things, to the quality of cooperation of all the participants in the mineral raw materials management process, and I hope that's how it will be. Thank you very much for the report you wrote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48271	Thank you very much. We have the same few replicas on your exhibit, but we will now continue with the next speaker, and that is the distinguished representative Darko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48272	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected chief state auditors with their associates. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So first, at the very beginning, for all those who, with their throats on strawberries or like the geese in the fog, were involved in this debate, one fact or two facts. First, neither is the State Audit, a public procurement obligation, nor is the State Audit Inspectorate. Therefore, respected chief auditors, along with all those allegations that the report or that reports are missing for some, are too wide for some. I am of the opinion that you have done a great job for the period from 2013-2015. So you took a sample of 20 companies, of which, some are majority or 100% owned by the Republic, some are owned by a system or units of local regional self-government. You've done a review. I think it's very good. You covered the audit and you classified these 20 samples into 3 indicative groups. It is one where the public procurement system is implemented without compromise and without any problem, just as the Public Procurement Act requires. You have established some minor irregularities in companies and have recorded that these are companies where the implementation of the public procurement system needs to be improved. And what I would say, I'm not going to congratulate you because it's part of your job, you've found that in four companies there is a system of public procurement that is being implemented in an ineffective, inefficient way, and in these companies, the system needs to be radically improved or improved. And now I'm going back to my first sentence. So, if you had done your job, you would have made a report or handed your findings over and given further action to those who were legally responsible. And now, without all of us being hypocritical to the first Croatian citizens together, and then here hypocritical to each other, I, especially, want to do so, and all of you, when it comes to the 2015 or 2016 State Attorney's Office report, just take a piece of paper numbered by page 16 to read that in the 13th, fourteenth and 15th radically leftover effects of public procurement in Croatian roads in HRT, in Luka Vukovar and at Zadar Airport, I ask the same questions that I am asking myself today. So we would if we had no systemic errors, so a very good term, if we didn't have them in the DORH report, which will also come before this Assembly, find a numbered page where the DORH will deal with these companies in the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth years. If there is no such thing in the report then there are systemic errors, then there is no system of responsibility. And to attack the State Audit System that it is ineffective, and by vertical legislative regulation to give it a tool, and especially to empower it to through criminal provisions and penalties those it finds not to implement a public procurement system is somehow at least so human hypocritical. Dear colleagues from the State Audit, we at the HDZ Club are assessing your report and your job well done and we will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48273	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the replica of the respected representative Ivan Šuker is the first respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48274	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Shuker, you said that these findings of state audits... all the political options that make the same mistakes, alluding to the fact that certain opposition deputies this morning at the state auditor's office thought they were doing a maybe audit of the last eight months or a year of this authority. The fact is also that State audit, along with its recommendations, helps local self-government units, state-owned enterprises, agencies to improve their business and manage state resources better and more transparently. The state auditor, and that is to say, you said that in the end that few people are mentioned in the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, but it should be said that the state auditor and the State Audit work according to a particular methodology for all, although knowing that we have 556 in this case units of local self-government and when we look at Croatia, we cannot only talk about what makes certain units of local self-government and larger cities work better, but we should also think about those smaller units of local self-government that do little or no affect the adoption of laws in the Croatian Parliament and cannot be implemented as such in small units of local self-government, there is a series of laws that prevent good implementation. Also, the fact that the local self-government unit gives your reports to its representative bodies any municipalities, cities or county congregations that are manifested about it. I'm going to pull only one parallel, Mr. Schucker, I remember we were together in the Bundestag when the Germans said that the adoption of a federal law doesn't necessarily have to be implemented at local level precisely because of the lack of funds or certain things that are related to the implementation of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48275	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48276	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić I am therefore and stressed that these five reports are five reports of certain processes still have about ho ho ho. And you've touched most of the local self-government that's been processed by 99 companies where they're headed by local and regional self-governments of various political options. Unfortunately, however, when you read little reports, you will see that many mistakes are repeated or shortcomings, regardless of which political party led by those units of local self-government, so I have and focused my debate on the club's behalf in this direction to see if we have put things or some laws or sub-legal acts in place to correct these inconsistencies. And I think the meaning of our parliamentary representatives should go that way. We can argue with Shime, Jure this, the one who made a mistake, however, if we leave the same law, if we find that the one who passed the law did not make quality sublaws because what it is, sublegal acts are passed above the part of this House of Commons. We pass the law and in this law we adopt that the minister must propose so many sublegal acts by then and then. These sublegal acts, unfortunately, can sometimes go in an unwanted direction. So that's what I was talking about without the intention of calling anyone. I've read all the reports. I could have pulled out segmentally and attacked someone, but the state of Croatia has no use. So we have to prevent phenomena. I don't know if appearance is the right expression, but it seems to me to be the most appropriate. And that's why I somehow tried to focus my debate, given that at this point we are responsible for the Croatian state, to simply send certain messages, not to attack something just because someone else was at the time. And look, it could happen in a few years, so what do we do? Then we can say we've all missed because we haven't changed things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48277	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48278	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you've been here in the Parliament for years, and here I am for two years. The fact that the revision gives its results and the fact is that there is no shift in society or in the system of these results. Because no one is responsible for the failures made for the devastationed companies, for public procurement that are illegal, which are harmful, which have been destroyed by competition, no one is responding. So it's simple for people to do everything they can and even better, to warn institutions, the State's Attorney's office and those who should do their job no result is seen in reality. All those who did, you mentioned mineral raw materials were given very simple permits. Whoever was doing the inspection was just getting the permits. Mr. Krasic while he was, Mr. Mikulić for private companies. And so the system doesn't work, the system is susceptible. And how it's going to work when we have today, it's not mineral raw material, but it's about water, energy, when we have a case of the Perun thermal power plant, the owner of the 50% project, the husband of the foreign minister, the Deputy Prime Minister. You saw the reaction when it was protected. It's not about water, water concessions, harmfulness. It doesn't matter. Here is today and scientists went out with a letter addressed to the angry Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Dalic at that moment, that unremembered reaction. So it's simply not even a local self-government that has to be influenced because it's in the same party that can't react. So the system of our natural resources, that's recognized State audit is simply so centralized, and that's proof of Peru's thermal power plant and the prime minister's silence, and... I'm asking a question, and you've seen the reaction of the Deputy Prime Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So comment on this system of our natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48279	Thank you. I'm asking you nicely to stick to the weather. You're way out of time again. Your Honor, Agent Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48280	Buddy Bull, I've been taught to talk about what's on the subject. I tried to talk about it today. The other thing is, I said there's a little bit of political options here that haven't had a chance to change anything. Therefore, the leverages for managing the state are among other things the management of public enterprises, resources, etc. And you've been participating in power. When I was talking about finding companies, you and the supervisory boards are taking part in some kind of local self-government unit. However, in a general way talking about something that is not a topic in principle may lead us to some collection of cheap political points, but unfortunately nothing will change. To say that the findings of the State Audits haven't changed anything can tell someone who hasn't read those findings. Because if you read the results from year to year, you see that the findings of the State audits were users and state resources, public funds and public goods to make certain changes. Whether things went faster or slower we could discuss it, but that's exactly why we're here. And that's why we're asking one more question to all of us whether we've properly regulated these areas that we're talking about today, whether the ministers have passed the rules because they don't depend on the Parliament, that this is done in a good way, and I think that we need to discuss it today. And then this segment that you were talking about wouldn't be the subject of a flat-rate debate at all. It is simply necessary to appreciate all processes, to appreciate everyone who knows something, it should be accepted and ultimately the best solution. But politics won't take us anywhere. We are today like those who are also here in the Parliament, we could discuss each of these points separately, take out everything and everything and laugh. But that's not the point of this story. It is our purpose to facilitate the conclusion of this House to colleagues from the State Audit when they are doing their next audits. That's the point of our debate, it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48281	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48282	Comrade Shuker, I think you've put the thing or the problem completely right. In fact, if it happens that from year to year there are State audits, so to speak, they repeat no matter what structure is in power, then it can only mean two. Either all the structures in power are completely incompetent or the troubles are law enforcement or the laws don't work, so they need to be changed. Unfortunately, the State Audit does not, unfortunately, carry out an audit of the law. Maybe you should. Warning the legislative authority didn't set it right, it's inconclusive. What you've written in the laws is invulnerable or difficult to implement. And those who have to do this regardless of the political option will necessarily violate the rules. And that's why I'd take these findings of the State Audit instructions for us all here in the Parliament regardless of the political option, to see what needs to be changed in these laws. Maybe we've overstretched them in public procurement, using the vehicle, maybe we've complicated them all needlessly. Well, then, the State's audit has to determine you're breaking regulations. They break regulations, they break regulations, things happen year after year. Let's take a look, I think you've made an excellent thesis, and this should be, this State Audit report, an invitation to all of us as legislators, to review those regulations. We will simplify the matter to the State Audit and to those responsible. Why would people break regulations? I'm convinced that they don't do it on purpose, the largest number of them, but it's simply something inconclusive, too complicated. So, I totally agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48283	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed counsel of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48284	Comrade Stazic, I'm glad you agree with me. I am one of those who has been practically since the beginning of how any service, the State Audit in a certain way was involuntarily or commenting in the Parliament or implementing certain laws. And that's why I did stick to certain segments to send us all a message, to plan for politics and to extract some dirty paper, and billions for the sake of those dirty papers go around. So the legal solution from the cabinet can look great. We'll do it here with some... some with objections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that the application comes and you sublegal acts, and those laws are basically carried out by someone else, whether they're in the ministry or here. Well, just take the story of breaking up the state inspectorate. So, apart from those inspection services that the Ministry of Finance, we had under one roof practically all the services that on the ground control whether the laws are implemented or not. We dug it up I don't know what reason, because every minister wanted to be a little god in his ministry. But let's go back four years later. Did the results of those we wanted to achieve come true? That's the meaning of my whole today's debate. I just don't have the will or the desire to argue with some empty story. Because I just don't think we have time. Every cent we don't withdraw from EU funds has failed for us. Every reform procedure we don't do has failed. Each one of those pebbles that was removed in Sava, from the Bosnian Sava built into Slavonic road, is lost for Croatia. And I can put it that way, we can talk about the Cetitian province. We can talk about everything. Let's go once, what people have done and found out is wrong in the field, those who need to change the laws, let's propose law, change the law. That's why I told some of you, you were in power, so you didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48285	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48286	Dear fellow Shuker, today's debate has just shown a situation in our society. We have two extremes, you've touched it in the introduction of your speech. We have those who are not here now, who have used this State Audit report, to attack populistly, to scrutinize, so the leader of the opposition party, not to mention, is precisely the finding of the audit refers to the period when they were in power. We've got media and we've got some kind of argument as an example I can put in official vehicles. Report on the use of official vehicles. Does anyone know a construction company that doesn't have some kind of truck, a mixer, a shovel or some kind of tool? Well, I guess the official vehicle is a tool. The tool of that cop who has to come to see the scene. Which we all call and wait impatiently, if we have a minor accident, because it's not there, because there's only one vehicle. And another thing, another way of arguing, which is exactly what you're doing in the right direction. The find of the State Audit is expensive, a collection of everything that happens in each area. And to all of us, the lecturer we need to study, to see exactly what my colleague Stazic said. If the law is wrong, let's fix it. If the law is right and someone doesn't comply with it, it has to be held accountable. And if there are absurd things and if we have here when I mention it, the vehicles are official, if we have satellite navigation, if we have a constant tracking of the location of the vehicle for 24 hours, which brings some bureaucratic solution that they have to print some paper travel order where dust is collected there in the drawer of that car. So we have a lot of things to simplify in that part that is currently in place as some kind of obligation, but we have a lot of things we can talk about, that we can fix, and that's exactly what you said in your debate. I'm not going to move on, because here's my colleague Stazic, mostly, said exactly what I was about to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48287	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed counsel of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48288	My colleague Klaric, that's exactly why I mentioned the sublaws. And said they're being brought out of the public. Which one of us is interested in certain areas, then enters the Ministry's website, so read this one or that rulebook. Now look, I'm only gonna keep one segment a little bit, because you mentioned it. So the State Audit found out about the official cars. They didn't make up that they were defects. Why? Someone prescribed what had to be guided to use that official car. Someone prescribed it. We didn't prescribe parliamentary representatives. Someone prescribed it. Well, if someone prescribed it, then let's stick to it. Or if he thinks it's too bureaucratic, too much from normized, then he suggests a change, regulations and good-bye. That's why I pulled the parallel with the businessmen. Because he's got to write that passport for that car. And you'll punish him, that driver, if he doesn't. Well, then let's make the law with this other one here. And go talk about, that's a terrible lot spent, get the train, this thing, and at the same time say that our inspections aren't effective, let's ask the question now, do these inspections have adequate means for their work. Because that vehicle is their vehicle and their laptop is their basic means of working. Because when he moves away from the ministry, that laptop. The vehicle takes him there, and the laptop serves him to have some kind of communication. And let's not look at things casually, when we're like this, when we're like this. When we need the police so they don't show up, then let's set this up, if that police have the right number of vehicles. If someone goes to a well somewhere, so to speak, mineral raw materials, a mining inspector doesn't come in time, let's ask a question now, is he adequate to do it. So let's not look from situation to situation, but all of this is done, so that instruments or levers for the functioning of the government are operationally functioning in order for Croatian citizens to be satisfied, and that is how we should observe these reports, each other's help, but everything else if we look at us, we won't help our colleagues. As some colleagues with their discussions, they are literally colleagues from the State Review Malta not to have invented anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48289	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48290	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I don't see any big problems here today because I think we all agree that the review finding is a kind of recommendation, a kind of advice and suggests to us here in the Parliament, but also to the leaders of certain executive bodies that they have to fix certain procedures to make their management more effective. And we're coming up with the fact that today you're talking about the management of mineral raw materials, I think this is the first revision that's even touched in history that the state's management system with the exploitation of mineral raw materials if I'm not wrong and we're getting to the point where we know what the state has and where the biggest problem is. Obviously, we know that these mineral raw materials are not managed properly because several bodies are competent, the county we see have no certain records and there are riots in the space. So today there are working quarrys, and they have no licenses, there is an exploitation of mineral raw materials, and there is no known at all the amount of mineral raw materials exploited, and then what everyone calls DORH and all other institutions that need to determine something, and there is no clear procedure of what you have advised that the ministries should correct their procedures from the law to the lowest acts. For example, the exploitation I don't know of excess mineral raw materials, everything there is, you can get permission from the Ministry of Property, you can go through the whole procedure, pay the state nicely everything she asks for, and there's the state of her own finished. But when we get to that last part, and how much of it you've exploited, no one knows anything about it anymore. It is not clearly prescribed how to record what is allowed to be exploited given what you bought, how much you took from an area, who is in charge, whether the geodeta, whether there should be scales, whether there should be an emissary etc. So we have a beginning, and we have no end to certain processes. So the ministries have to react to this kind of audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48291	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed counsel of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48292	Now, you've raised one question that I didn't purposely want to open, which is to control the legal provisions that we bring to this House. Whether we're teamed up enough or not. In one of my replicas, I mentioned the story of the state inspectorate. Whether anyone thinks he's good or not, it's a system that's starting to work. I will tell you we were all thrilled when counterpart Tolusic started the story about food etc., and we have been having problems in Croatia for decades who will control the food, whether the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Agriculture is far more important where it will be stationed, not what the product of that control is. The same story is in mineral raw materials. I'll touch that luxury of local one-part luxury, and that's a Chiche pebbly, about 16, 17 square miles, an average depth of almost 50 meters. You know what that means? An environmental bomb for the future. And now I'm asking myself a real question, how many cities of Great Gorica and Turopolje do they have of that gravel money? Almost nothing. And why am I saying that? Because I was mayor and in every possible and impossible way I tried to bring it to work in some way, but someone always planted my leg, tied his hands on my back, and you basically broke your nose, but they'll blame you all as the head of the local unit of local self-government. Therefore, I repeat, sublegal acts and legal acts are the instrument with which the state manages Croatian citizens' money and manages Croatian property, and that is what we as parliamentary representatives should discuss and take care of. Small day-to-day political bickering has never brought good to anyone, nor will it bring good. And we are paid here precisely because everyone, based on our knowledge and experience, is watching what laws we make, how good they are and how well they are applied, and how well they are applied, these are the findings of the State Audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48293	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure to that esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go. Give it up. ... You picked it up before that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then you're first on Mr. Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48294	Your Honor, Vice President. Here's my colleague Mikulić urged me with one statement that he believes that after ten years or so, it's much better now than it was ten years ago. I hope so. My colleague Shuker is talking about how we here in this entire debate need to draw conclusions that we should change under the law, which is also true, but we have a problem not implementing the law. And when you talk about that ten years ago, it was a lot worse, it's true. And fellow Shuker is not right when he says that we should not mention individual examples that indicate that it is not only a problem in legal and sublegal acts but also a problem in law enforcement. And you know what I'm talking about, I'm talking about a case where the contrary to the Mining Act is a concession for much larger quantities, and in that you participated in Mr. Krasic's wife, you had a joint venture, everyone is well aware of the case. What about that? Why didn't anyone answer? So it's not just sublegal acts, legal acts, it's a matter of law enforcement that we have. And the problem is that people who participated in such things are still very active in Croatian politics and are even shooting at this state inspectorate, which is spoken of by counterpart Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48295	The answer of the distinguished representative, Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48296	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoy, so you have information firsthand. I've never been more proud than I was since '98. until February 2004. Therefore, you must specifically tell who it is. Otherwise, for information, you know what the procedure is for the award of concessions and quantities, for a professional body to determine the quantities of reserves, and to share with the number and annual production, so you get the number of years of concession. There are some things we need to know in this House. Right, you're referring to the judiciary. Justice is about what you're talking about saying everything. Is someone guilty, is someone not guilty, etc. The State Inspectorate was an institution that carried out control of the rules and enforcement. That's the key. In 10 years, if I and my honorary inspectors were assistant to a billion and a hundred million were pushed towards justice, and you have a point like me, because we're parliamentary representatives of the 2015 report, sixteenth and we'll see what the judiciary has done. A billion and a hundred million kunas based on illegal exploitation were pushed towards justice. So, whoever got what, bring the papers. Whatever the case, the control of the implementation of the rules was carried out and what was done under the law was done. And regardless, I never told you, but never in my life as much as I was in a hurry I didn't park with a car in a place for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48297	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48298	My colleague Mikulić, you were in the inspectorate, which means you were in the field of mineral raw materials when you were working. So here's a question, we're not talking about gravel now, about companies, here's a question in the Cetina area. At the time, I got due to the organisation of action to prevent the delay in the mining of Slana Stine, Karakasica it is well known to you, you were at that time involved in concessions giving to Draga... Because you had to know these problems because you did it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in terms of recovery, that's what the miner is, I warn you, I remind you, that you've taken it upon yourselves not to delay that expense under the cover of the Sansaan scrap material from the Long War. You're nothing. I personally reported to the D.A.'s office, opposed to polluting the environment. Nothing was done because too many influences were yours and Mr. Mladne's in the environment. It's Krasic's number, they were influential groups. It was bringing me in. That's why I've now got 20 criminal charges from owners who illegally wanted to resuscitate that mining waste, who wanted to come up with mineral raw materials in the Cetina region. Because the only thing we have left is that. The inspections didn't do their job then, nor do they do their job now, but who gives them more money for them. It's a fact and it's true and it's visible on the salt rock mine. I am personally because of this and now in courts, although I get all the litigation, and to those who wanted to exploit it and to get rid of the poisons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48299	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48300	Dear Representative Bulj, I must in some things give you arguments to make the public understand. I was never your inspector. I was the assistant chief state inspector. That's your difference. So we need to know in the system how the system works. So that's one thing. Assistant Chief State Inspector appointed by the Government and resolved by the Government. I was appointed by the government in July 2004. I was relieved by the government of the one who is no longer. Okay. That's one thing. By the way, for the sake of the Croatian public, I was your Prime Minister for the fight against the gray economy. How can a man like that say he's doing this or what he might be doing? In order for these to be some tests, you have to pass. Well, somebody must've seen something somewhere. My first problems with the actions of the mining inspectors, the miracles began from Sinj right from this location, so we headed to the State's Attorney's office when we were called. Those of us who processed illegal exploiters. Well, you mentioned some. All the verdicts in all the courts were received by the State Inspectorate against these people and all the reports that were made to watch their miracles were rejected. When you're talking about recovery, and I'm going to be taking part in an individual debate, then you need to know gentlemen that we have two types of recovery. One is technical, one is biological. But everything in life needs to have a certain quantity of knowledge, so something to learn and talk about. When we talk about someone doing something, and there's no paperwork necessary for that, I'm calling you as parliamentary representatives to report it to the competent authorities that you should report. Well, it's your duty! So for anyone if we know he's doing something that's illegal, report him!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48301	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48302	Thank you, Vice President. My friend Mikulic, I'd like something a little different from my colleagues. [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Bulj, please!]] They all said about everything that was to be said and it's all true, but I wonder here in the Parliament is open how long it takes us to sort things out? It's been a state for 25 years. I've been in the Parliament for two years. I would most sincerely like to know now, I believe the revision, to these people sitting here that told us in the first part how many cases have been solved since last year that have not been carried out here, the audit that has found crime in trade societies and other institutions, let's see how much of this has been solved. Did DORH solve that problem? We open the books today, close them tomorrow, reopen them next year, close them the day after tomorrow. We're spinning into a circle of spells, we're not dealing with anything, crime is still happening in our country, very few people respond by looking at the media and watching. Well, I ask that question, so it's that simple, so many laws are clear. To someone they are clear, exclusive, they are neither clear nor exclusive. And that's the question of our country and our citizens. We want solutions, we have to make a solution, and it would be best if the State Audit directly accused certain people who have created problems and who have committed crime in society. It would be simple, but maybe for them hard, but in the DORH so much... It's in the drawers and nothing's going anywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to ask you upstairs when you're done, how many cases have been solved in the last two years, according to your findings, where there's been crime. Well, that's easy for me, so the unknown, I realize she's an unknown, how I'll know, when we don't know. And we deal with some problems all the time. It's a question of questions. We can talk here as much as we want and stay on the same page. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48303	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48304	Dear Representative, look, I agree with you, I will give the arguments, but the objectives of the review were at the price of the handling of the competent authorities in accordance with the rules adopted. Well, it's not the State Review that has that jurisdiction. So we need to know who has, what is the area of jurisdiction of individual institutions. I said I'll do it again. A billion and a hundred million kunas. Some of the most difficult items, I'm sorry that some of them here in the assembly are gone now, we've been working out during, while fellow Schuker was Minister of Finance. Was that the way it was, pal? Those were serious objects. Very serious objects. And solved. If there's any need, I'll say every name and name and location. Well, I've been doing it for 20 and a few years, gentlemen. I don't know how to deal with psychiatry or any other business, I know what I've been through and what I've spent my whole life investing in. So, out of that billion and a hundred million, you know how many verdicts were passed, rightful? 100. Not 100 million, 100 grand worth of what we're talking about. And now I'm asking you, we have people doing a job, which is what my colleague Shucker says, not to talk about it, you have a cell phone, you don't have a laptop, you have a car, and so on. That's what we know about surveillance, what we do. People process millions of dollars, I'm not going to open up the receiving question, not at all, work for this country, work and then come to justice, what happens? He says the Justice Department has warned you, because I've assessed or assessed it as a warning. So what do you need people for? That's the problem with people in the system that come forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48305	Thank you. And on the esteemed representative of Horvat, we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Stricket. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48306	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, fellow Horvat, you stated in your debate, that the audit reports are certainly one of the best quality that come to the Croatian Parliament, but obviously the problem is after the follow-up. So, among other things, you've been encouraged by the work of the DORH. An example from the Varazdin County area, based also on the audit reports, where over 2 million kunas of public procurement were found to have gone beyond public procurement procedures. Of course the review recorded it, passed it all on to the DORH. However, there is obviously a concern. The DORH, instead of launching the proceedings, sends everything to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Economy, obviously a little bit among itself, to the criminal court and, ultimately, two million kunas spent past, any public procurement, was nothing. Also, you've touched the work of the supervisory board. One concrete example from a week ago, two, where we can read from the news portal, from the Varazdin County, there have been some changes in the monitoring committees since the local elections. And who now calls for a new board of supervisors. A former science doctor with a SDP party card who, in the four years he sat on the board of directors, did not remember to ask the management of this company, how possible that all their tenders, all public procurement related to... Varazdin, managed to fall. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's coming through now. It also means another interesting topic, also for the State Audit, and apparently for other bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48307	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48308	Thank you, fellow Striker, for this question. On this note. I am still standing by my sentence, which I said in my opening statement, therefore, very bravely, my colleagues from the State Audit, have recorded in the period from 2013-2015 severe shortcomings in business and in the implementation of the public procurement system in 4 companies. I am sure that by virtue of the regulatory framework, this audit finding, for all four companies, has gone from the area of state audit, to a relevant place, where analysts should run or not run certain processes, which, if established, the responsible people in those companies should put before certain criminal provisions. And I'm going to do it again, and I agree with my colleague, Sagar, so there's now this system hub and the systematic lack of one vicious circle, which we all think together or cover up that it's happening in the real world and life, almost every day, and these attacks on my colleague Mikluja are clearly confirming to us that these things happen. Now, dear colleagues, we are not the parliamentary representatives here responsible for the implementation of the DORH's activities and work in this trio of the DORH government is part of a system that works independently and functions, but what we are and we have to, we have to ask questions, we have to ask questions and look for answers. I have spoken here publicly that I will take an interest in the DORH report on the implementation of public procurement procedures on the basis of an audit report in four companies for which the DORH or the State Audit found that there are key shortcomings in the implementation of the public procurement system. So here's fellow Uncle I urge you to explore this particular example in this same way and come to the relevant facts...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48309	Thank you, colleague Horvath. You've done a little too much for him. Please, let's just stick to the weather. And now we're going to go to the GLAS Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48310	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed chief auditor, Mr. Klesic, with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here I have a chance to speak on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club today when everything like this has gone nicely on this subject. First, HDZ and SDP agreed that we had a united debate against which we had nothing, and then also in the discussion of colleagues from HDZ and SDP who were no longer there to discuss the revision so they discussed what it should be and how it should be. Our club will support this review and I think that the audits should be discussed and spoken whether the revision refers to the period when you were in power or you were in opposition for the simple reason why we should ask ourselves what the purpose of the audit is. And I will try through this debate really in a few elements to say why we will support this revision and why we think audits should and should be in this way. Look at the little history at all... of the revisions, when you see them a little, then you see that every time they point to something else and learn something from these audits. This country and all together can go forward only if what was good for one authority we move on, and what was wrong we do not repeat, regardless of whether those mistakes were ours or someone else's. First in these audit reports, public procurement audits, and otherwise I don't normally read from materials, but I'll read it this time because I think that's actually the point of both these audits and the next. He says the purpose of the revision is whether the public procurement system in the entities is effective, that means whether it's being implemented, whether we have regulations, whether the regulations are in the office. Secondly, there was a real need for certain purchases and third whether the results of the procedures carried out enabled the achievement of a satisfactory value for the money invested. These are the answers we need to get and discuss when it comes to public procurement, whether it was necessary and whether this public procurement was actually carried out properly. When it comes to public procurement, the auditor through the audit entities he has had and through which items and criteria he has set says nicely what this was a problem and says what to do next so that it is not repeated. So what is important is that for the next revision, when we get the results of the revision to see it, some things have improved. We all know very well, you don't have to go to audits in the same entities that you went to in the previous period, you can go to some others for the reason that we're the state where when you do audit with one of the people who does know and know what the problem is. Indeed when it comes to reviewing anywhere then you from that revision it has one educational character and you have to think about that educational character. From this educational character you really need to see what is already said, regulations, rules, whether something needs to be improved in relation to regulations, whether they should be changed. Every time the law is passed then you have a working body that works that law, then you have a particular ministry that often behaves as you know that Matoville is once a castle and she lives there and doesn't know what the real world is, and then when the regulation lets go into real life then you see what the problems are. And we don't need to have any vanity here, and neither can we, as parliamentary representatives, are those general practices that are in the Renaissance to understand each other at all. We can't know everything, either, so when you let go of real life, then you see what the problems are and you don't need to have any vanity because then what problems you really need to see and go to change and supplement the rules. It is better to change and supplement and have an effective regulation than because of your vanity or because of something you do not change and have a regulation that is inadmissible. Always, of course, great occupation is related to official cars. We didn't have any problem at the GLAS club to talk about the revision that was for the period when we were the ones who were ruling, the fact in some other option but no matter what, and then there was a pretty big debate about official cars. You can't work without having tools. You can't work today, I can always refer to a eating inspection which is a very unpopular inspection, which in these situations never gave inspections on a pile or were it, was not the topic of discussion that was building inspection. Today we can do this, it can be a special topic, I'm sure when a public defender's report comes or something else that it's going to be a special topic, the inspector can't work without having a basic tool, it's his tool, it's, of course, some smart cell phone that can paint what's in place. Of course, it has to have a laptop and everything else, so these are its basic elements. How it's going to work, depending on the people you have. We have what we have touched several times, and this is the right time to touch it, and that's your next process. You fail to get into the state administration, and not even an inspection that has a slightly higher salary than is a quality fit. How can someone be an inspector if someone who comes to the inspection knows more, knows better, gets to know him better than he does? Hardly. So it's a topic that we need to think about and talk about how to get a quality frame, and today especially in the context of when of course the emigrations are such that it's a question of what it has or doesn't have, but it's another topic. When it comes to cars, so in that period when it was audit, I was the Minister of Construction, and we did one thing that I really suggest they all use. We took the car from customs, we paid only customs in the amount I think there were hundreds of thousands of kunas, there were some 100,000 kunas, there was a great car that stood on customs for five, six years and that way. However, we had a problem with the rolling stock that has been in customs for five, six years and so on. However, we had a problem with a rolling stock that was for inspectors where at one point we had to get a hundred cars, because it was simply the cars that were able to let no one go anywhere, to work at all. But it really needs to be looked at in real life as it is. A pretty big debate is about mineral raw materials. Mineral raw materials are a special topic. Someone who will care about the history of planning, the history of use, the history of the legislative frameworks related to mineral raw materials will have a very, very interesting topic. So I've been dealing with mineral raw materials from one professional aspect and some others for over 20 years, and there's been done what mineral raw materials management was 20 years ago and what today is a terrible difference. 20 years ago, you had a provision that was in all the spatial plans to exploit mineral raw materials outside the construction area. So there's already a process that's gone far beyond that they have to be planned, that they have to be exploitation fields. But when did we figure that out? You know when we realized the problem we had? We realized when the big highway activity started, with highway planning I speak Zagreb - Split, i.e. Karlovac – Split. When we got a company that was not a Croatian who worked and which according to our space didn't have a feeling except for its economic feeling today you're all driving along the highway and there's a resort Zir which has a name Zir on the hill of Zir which is a painting, so on this one meadow you see this Zir and then this company that was doing it said that Zir is a great place, where the excellent material for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, that they will come to settle it, and then we became aware of the fact that we have, the problem we have with planning the exploitation of mineral raw materials, with the subject that it is. And today it's very different than it was about 20 years ago. So it can get better, it can get better. That it needs to be better, it needs to be better. And there's no dilemma at all. Equally, you know when an environmental impact assessment is even introduced, what is the topic in Croatian legislation and in these areas? The first environmental impact assessments were made in '86. the year was not known by which methodology. Today we already have absolutely developed. And when you read a little of that revision, you read those processes too, that something that was 10 years ago or 20 years ago isn't today. But you also read that you have to be better and you need to be better. I never see any excuse that we're not better at changing laws, bringing sublaws, bringing procedures, making these procedures easier when we see that they're complicated because it's up to us to make them easier, to simplify them in the part that needs to be simplified and to educate people. So someone thinks everyone can do anything. I don't mean it to myself, and absolutely if someone told me that I should say what I know how to run a nuclear power plant, I'd say I'm sorry, but there's a lot of strangers about me. Someone else thinks they can really deal with everything, so that and on that basis only a few sentences related to the supervisory boards of companies. I'm sure when someone tells you I can go to the Supervisory Board, here I am that you don't need to put him on because he doesn't know what it's about. People are equally educated during life. And you see in this report when it comes to supervisory committees, there's really something that's already been pointed out on several occasions. First you have legislative frameworks, second are sublegal acts, third is a list of processes, fourth is knowledge, education and competences. We can only go ahead really when we take care of it and when we don't think everyone can. And you can see that in this report. Therefore, the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU no matter what the report refers to the period when we have participated, even as well as read it, but it is good to read that some mistakes and always make mistakes are not repeated, that the experiences that were good to continue them. What's bad is that it doesn't happen again. It's really like every time we get the State Audit, we've had a lot of material in the former Parliament's brief summation, we've had the opportunity to discuss it. And I'm really, personally and in the name of the club when I debated, too. I praised the methodology that was done, because the methodology always says what the goal was, so what was found, and then you see the way it was and then you see some recommendations. Now these recommendations really need to be read, because from these recommendations we can take a step forward. The state review really when you see what she's been doing, you see the processes that have changed. Indeed, mineral raw materials will likely be a series of replicas on my colleague Mikulić. My colleague Mikulić and I discussed the first exploitations we discussed in the Medvednica Nature Park, which no longer existed. And I might end up with the theme of recovery. You know, when we started with the first recoverys just like that, it was a terrible problem, because even then they had all the obligation to resuscitate. The obligation to resuscitate is forgotten by everyone. You have two resolutions – one recovery is to make nature its own where possible, and the other recovery that needs to be exploited is for the purpose of recovery and there you always have a problem. I personally always advocate that this recovery, where it is possible to be in some new added value, be it, I don't know, when it comes to Cic, mentioned by his esteemed colleague Shucker, and when it comes to exploiting where sand and gravel were. Then it may be a zone of sport and recreation, but somewhere else, it can also be some kind of parks, adventures and something else, but about that, it's now the next step in which we're going to go. And perhaps just a sentence, there was a reference to the exploitation of gravel, i.e. sand and Sava, indeed. Explosion, i.e. on the Croatian side was illegal, on the Bosnian side it was not and the fact is that our builders bought gravel from the Bosnian side and implanted in highways that worked on the Croatian side. The consequence of that was, you know, the river doesn't pose for you with its own water flow that the border goes in the middle of the river's queen, so that's the legal limit. The river has its own life, as the natural and animal world has its life independent of us, but now related to climate change, it has been up to us because we have caused it by our actions and then, when you look at a little process that has been in the last 20 years, a little territory of Croatia will, in fact, have increased slightly to the expense of the territory of another country, because the river has been exploited, Sava, when you see from the Austro-Hungarian age, so today you see how it is actually going to be at the expense of the Bosnian side and this exploitation is not so much, but it will really lead to that. So here's the Voice Club and HSU will support this report. It's good to come to the Parliament, it's good to discuss it, and it's just as good that the next report doesn't be some of the things that were in this, but they're some of the other things, because we always need to be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48311	Thank you. And there's a series of replicas on your exposure. The first is the distinguished representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48312	Dear colleagues, I must say that we from the Living Wall will not support the State Audit report, for the reasons that the business of state-owned enterprises is unacceptable. I will give an example of only the National Journalists, a state monopolies who created a loss of nearly 79 million kuna in the last year alone. Apparently, there are ten HNS earrings being employed and harmful contracts are being concluded without what you would say, without public competitions, etc. If N.N. continues this way, we'll find ourselves in a situation, so will the N.N. soon to go bankrupt, that the state will have to resuscitate, etc. As for one key detail, the largest financial institution in the country, owned by the CNB, through which billions of kuna passes, is outside the State Audit. So the State Audit doesn't deal with her, which I find embarrassing. And it is a shame that the legislator, meaning there is no political will in the House to release the State Audit into the CNB. Another very important, i.e. the third key detail. The state audit is not at all engaged in the business of huge concerts like Agrokor, you'll say, is so Agrokor isn't funded by the state. It's funded. Million credits have been paid. Which directly from HBOR, were given millions of incentives, which was given through those of some funds, state etc. What through the state postal bank, and when all these millions come together on a pile, you'll say, is that Agrokor was supposed to pay it back, those loans. Maybe he did, but he didn't bring them back. So the state can happen that a billion kunas to a business subject, doesn't monitor his work, and systematically continues to give him money, and he eventually fails, and all those millions as they say are eaten by a donkey wolf. And it's actually a policy of continuity here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48313	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48314	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna say a word about Agrokor. However, you absolutely as a club have the right to support or not to support or vote that way. But what I've been discussing, or I'm going to discuss, is what the point of the review is. What she's supposed to be. It sometimes shows you some things that you're not very happy with, but that's also the purpose of the revision and the purpose of the revision to show that we have a condition. The meaning of those who read these documents to see what happened before, to see if there were any improvements in the sector and in this topic, and those who would read behind to see the difference. And with regard to N.N. And what's going on in N.N. I unfortunately really don't know, and I don't want to know what it is and that's the theme of what you said about absolutely something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48315	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48316	Thank you very much. My colleague, you're an expert, of course you do whatever you tell us, and I will speak from the aspect of a man living in a 5 or 6 mining environment, mostly exploited, and not recovered. In the recovery they became essentially through the possibility that I was telling you here as an expert, and now I repeat again, those who wanted to put down dangerous waste, ecologically. And this is located in the suburbs of the town of Sinj and it is indeed now an ecological wound and development of the city and it is a space that could be used much better, probably in other cities. And the fact that even the inspections didn't force, those who have a obligation to resuscitate, regardless of either from another exploitation field or from some other natural raw materials that would have to put it off, simply by means of a resuscitation lab, because in the mines, I learned that as an activist, because I led actions not to delay waste, where some would make huge money, and neither did citizens benefit. The citizens had, before they were mined, the damage to the houses, and they had no buts, and they had no infrastructure, and the only thing that was done in those areas was profit. And that's not where the inspection was done. Those wounds in space are still alive. It's a key problem, which right now it's not settled with all the regulations that you as an expert know what are mistakes, anomalies how to solve, the fact that these wounds in the area of the cetinal end, only in my circle... 4, 5 miners, which is the very city of Sinja in the very center, we only see the intention of those who want to put waste away, i.e. A waste mob that... from the ministry of various inspections to delay it. The only ones who were a liability were citizens... or the miners would have been treated with dangerous waste, and there's the drinking water of the river Cetina and the people living there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48317	Thank you very much. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48318	Thank you very much. So regarding the find of the State Audit, related to mineral raw materials, of course, it has run a number of other topics in this assembly. So the recovery of the fields of exploitation, whether it was ore, whether it was gravel, whether it was something else, really whether it was stone, technical stone, architectural stone really was a special topic. What we're trying to say is that the State Audit has done its job, established what it is, and these are the topics that need to be discussed. But that's a topic I'd like to talk about, say, when it was the Regional Development Strategy, maybe that's what we should talk about, when it comes to waste. I hope that this assembly will also be attended by a plenary session of the Strategic Development Strategy, which is in those documents that have not yet been adopted. We have a series of things to talk about. The fact is that all the projects related to the exploitation of mineral raw materials contained in themselves and the recovery project. The fact is, a lot of them, after exploiting it, went or shut down the company or moved away and didn't take care of it. The fact is that such situations are always convenient for someone to solve a problem. And there is the role of activists and people to point out, the role of inspection to get out on the ground and stop it and the role of units of local self-government and county, and of course the state and the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Environment and Energy is now little in one little bit in the other, to make it not only by regulations but also by real action on the ground to make the situation better. What is certain in the karst end is that we are all who have had technical professions or who live there, the breach has its own legality and the fact is that the pits that are in the junk can't come especially no waste, and at least any dangerous waste is what might be put in a few miles from your Sinj's situation can be seen significantly further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48319	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Mrak-Taritash fully agree that the means to work with inspections are cars, laptops, smartphones and other technical aids. But here we come to a big question, it's a matter of legal authority. I will tell you one example, and here I am definitely in favour of calling back the formation of a state inspectorate, an example of a tourist inspection. I don't know if you're familiar with the fact that a tourist inspection can only control registered tenants, so you see absurdity. She can knock on the door where there is a board, where the categorization is made, the first neighbor can rent apartments on black and there is absolutely nothing a tourist inspector can do. He can have hundreds of cars, he can have hundreds of smartphones, he can have hundreds of laptops. So then he has to call customs to come to the scene if he's around to make an inspection to eliminate that gray market. So these are the same problems that simply state efficiency shows whether or not it is. So I think that this question of the state inspectorate should be updated as soon as possible, that it should be formed again because when the state inspectorate was all inspectors had all the powers, they could do the job. Today we like to boast with a large number of guest increases in the Republic of Croatia, and most of the increase in nights happens in the non-communication sector, which tells you exactly something, which is where we discussed a few months ago, the issue of legalization of objects, when we can also host friends up to 15 people in these legalized facilities. If there are 15 people in one facility, you have about 1500 overnight stays recorded in the non-communication sector, and the question of whether the state has an effect or if we have only a crowd in our tourist centers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48321	Thank you very much. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48322	Thank you very much. You were a minister just like I was a minister, and we can tell our sad stories about certain impotence in certain processes, and the point is that someone who comes behind you or behind me to make his life easier. And the point of the debate in Parliament is always to be in some of the following situations better. And to admit if we did something wrong, we did it wrong. I was deliberately talking about a construction inspection that wasn't exactly a popular topic because no one ever thought that this construction inspection was going to that big inspectorate because we'd already had those processes. What's the meaning of the inspection? The meaning of the inspection is double, one is educational. This means that it really goes and that it makes sure that whoever works is something better, and the other purpose of the inspection is what he just says, which is that in a certain way those who when it comes to renters, he can only check whether he does it right and tell him even better. And parallel to that, he can see a house full of cars from all over the place and they're all your friends. So he has to come and punish what he is and we know that's the problem and we need to change that. I was deliberately talking about smartphones, and I was deliberately talking about building inspection for the reason that you always sort of compare yourself with some other countries, so of course other countries, especially when it comes to building use and satellites, so with the video that goes in 24 hours you see exactly what changes are in the space, it is also related to the exploitation of mineral raw materials. You can today order to deliver satellite footage and you can see what is the change in space for 24 hours. I'm sure someone decides to say that we've rented one satellite, to see changes in space, to record properties or exploit mineral raw materials, I'm sure on the current watch, that is, when we're looking for all the clubs on behalf of the club, and to discuss it with us, and that's a minimum standard. Let's not discuss something that's a minimum standard. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48323	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Andrija Mikulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48324	Dear Representative Dark Taritash, with a lot of things I agree absolutely with what you said. So, I think the discussion went the wrong way. So now, based on individuals or possibly companies, we're introducing the whole group into something called an illegal story. That's not true, and the facts need to be made known in order to be able to speak. What you said well you know what an even bigger tragedy is? What we talked about over a thousand years ago, according to that. I'm just kidding. You gave me cream. You were talking about a company, a company that worked the roads, and then she left. We've been processing her, too. And we processed this company because it doesn't give you the right to build roads in Croatia so you don't pay for mineral raw materials that are mineral treasure owned by the Croatian state. So thank you for reminding me. Nice of you to say this is a very complex topic. When we talk about mineral raw materials, we have to start from the beginning. It's spatial-planned documentation. The moment the building permits were no longer written, what with the excess digging was the problem and then we changed the Construction Act, you'd know better in 2008 or the ninth, so we introduced that extra dig article, etc. etc. And then we kind of tried what our colleague in Bakar was saying about the excess dig, so through the State Office then, today, we tried to solve it. As far as the recovery itself is concerned, here in these few seconds, so we don't have to go far to the neighbouring state and one, the other and the third, so let's see when you talk about a fellow recovery that is a recovery. It is a process that takes a succesively, concesively, and we have excellent examples in Zapresic that something is being resolved and that units of local administrations and self-government are benefiting even more than is prescribed by the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48325	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48326	Thank you very much. So when it starts with any topic, then this topic goes in the direction in which we all point, and we're obviously all through the first debate and further something more focused on the exploitation of mineral raw material for the simple reason it doesn't exist, I'm sure not a single mayor or mayor who sits here and has some exploitation in his area, that there's no problem with that. The problem he's got, he's got from using roads, so they don't pay for the use of roads. So we always see the problems that are. Exploitation should bring for one space and a certain benefit, and then these problems would be slightly smaller. But really, when it comes to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, it's one topic where we can see exactly in our legislation, in relation to the space of progress we've made. That we're not satisfied, that we want to be even better, but progress has been made. And I deliberately mentioned this company, and I deliberately mentioned the construction of the highway, because they came and it was normal for them to come and Mount Zir level as much as they needed, take advantage of it, pay nothing and go on. Why? Because at that point, we really had regulations that were unsettled, they were vague. The spatial plans were just a provision that could be exploited outside the construction area, so you could exploit anywhere. Of course there were light bulbs in the red and we made regulations. And regulations and we really don't have to treat them. They're not carved into stone. They have to change, because what you do when you do regulations, and even when we bring it into this assembly, we can't think of people in real life, in real reality. Thus, the regulations need to be applied in this material, among other things, to which we are discussing and writing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48327	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48328	Thank you very much. My colleague Taritash, the fact is that this story of mineral raw materials may have been an isolated part because it is indeed extensive material and over 100 pages indicates as clearly as the finding of a revision that suggests that it is a space within which the state currently has a large, large opportunity to edit it even better than it is. And you said that all those who come from local backgrounds can see clearly what the problem is. I come from an island that has problems exploiting mineral raw materials. We lie down or we have as many stones as we want, and we have to import it from, I don't know, like, inside of Croatia, for no reason, i.e. For reasons we've limited ourselves through spatial planning and we have a problem. So it's like comparing our seas and having to eat freshwater fish. We just have to find a solution inside that space. Whether it still pleases us in this way that we designed ten years ago with a Regulation on protected coastal space in which they are disabled means quarryes and space for exploitation. And we have the fact that the stone is being exploited, but it's all in the gray zone, because we have what I've already said, we have a beginning, we have the conduct of state bodies, we have a realisation and we have no end. We're out of control, and that's where the biggest problem happens. And that's why I said that now the state bodies, first of all the Ministry of State Property, the economy, and even environmental protection, and even spatial planning, must take this revision, read out all the data to make it clear where the problem is and why the situation is happening that we don't have the exact records of what is being exploited, and it's natural wealth. And there is manipulation, i.e. There's no reason for that to happen. And they're always guilty of who? The leaders of local self-government, and they have no tools to prevent any such event. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48329	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48330	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, you have touched on a very interesting topic that we could discuss all day in this Assembly, it is the exploitation of mineral raw materials on islands. Brač and Korčula were excluded from the architectural stone and it was created, I remember for a long time, and now I'm at an age when I remember better, what was before this week. So I remember when there was a big interest in exploiting islands, it started when Italy banned certain explosions because they had already exploited and already violated space and then there was one request on the island of Lastovo. Lastovo is an island that needs about as much time as he needs to Split, so it's up to Dubrovnik, and it's up to the Italian side, and there's this investor who wanted a part of Lastovo who knows Lastovo well, so above the hidden port, so according to, say, the north east, he had an idea to exploit, he already had and how there would be the ferry and those ferrys would go stone and drive directly to Italy. And the result was that in the 2004 law, there was a ban on exploitation on islands, then it was still in the law, and as a result there was also a protocol on the management of integrated areas of the Mediterranean. But I don't owe it here now, so there should be a dose of reason, of course. We don't need to exploit everything. You should see where a quality stone is, and if it really is a quality architectural stone, I would always advocate that there are islands that are exceptions, but this is the topic to sit on, to be considered, you should see. Of course, gravel should not be exploited everywhere, but it should be studied very carefully, promoted and you know you can always do more damage than benefit. But I'm always up for it, with a dose of reason, and with common sense, to do you some good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48331	Thank you very much. Now we're going to an individual debate and the first one is the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48332	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed auditors, I would briefly just say, it would rescind, it would all be in one sentence, it would mean public procurement. Public procurement when we observe the fact that the Croatian economy is in a public tender, i.e. Public procurement and failure. The fact that when the steel in Split collapsed, when the Croatian highways were built, A1, a kilo of Croatian iron was not placed in a whole series of huge objects viaductors, tunnels, but was imported. What a public procurement that was more expensive when these mineral raw materials were purchased, i.e. The iron from us was bought out, it was sent to Turkey and bought out from other countries, and Croatian iron mills failed, nor grams, it was disastrous that we imported Croatian iron, and Croatian iron mills drove. Of course, through public procurement that it had affected and favoured foreign investors, which is why Croatian highways jumped from once 5m euros per km, went to a lot more, to 5 times more. This is the fact that, on a number of issues of public procurement, carried out by the ministries, local self-government, failed competition, that they were favored. And you do it in your reports. Here we can only take the shipbuilding, the shipbuilding site of Split which is subsidized and that is the same finding of yours, in your find, which is absolutely not respected by any contractual regulations, and you have met with this ministry, even that shipbuilding site of Split, which the Croatian state has been subsidising for billions, millions, hundreds of millions of kunas. It doesn't even receive our workers from the territory of Croatia, but from other countries, and it sends our workers to Ireland, to the West, to Asia, simply, of course, that we lost, above all in shipbuilding, the most important thing, is man as the most valuable resource, and the state subsidizes someone to hire people from other countries, because it simply works there on black. And our young people can't get dressed and leave. This is about, say, the shipbuilding and shipbuilding sites of Split, and you even find them in this section, that the subsidized money is not used on the basis of a contract with these people. And unfortunately, here we are going to lose the shipbuilding. The least of the problems are that we're going to lose shipbuilding, but we're going to lose both human potentials and resources from the highest-quality welders to shipbuilding engineers. And that's the most painful thing because it was a trigger, mostly down in Dalmatia, and in all of the Adriatic, Rijeka, to Split, and these are the facts that you listed here in your report. That's what I saw. Here I'm going to go now means as far as public procurement is concerned, or who does what, crime is booming, calling for inspections, since 2008 after 2008 the fact that the Croatian economy has been destroyed, but as far as mineral raw materials are concerned, I can repeat that one more time. The only thing they did, so that it was exploited, could speak for examples of their end of Sinj, repeat again, because I live in the environment of a number of miners, when the exploitation was carried out, it was necessary by law to go into recovery, the recovery was not done. A number of objects remained damaged because they were then eliminated, people were in enormous damage, and now only wounds are left in space, where they can't be. And legally it was mandatory, the one who did the exploitation of state raw materials and did not pay as much as necessary, can be called upon by counterpart Mikulić for this inspection, to that inspection. But the fact is that great damage has been done, I am speaking now in the area of the town of Sinj where I live and so on in Brač, Jadrankamen where the owners of the quarry are involved, the fathers of the parliamentary representatives, whether SDP, whether HDZ, you know it well. You know how it goes and it just doesn't work. We're left with ecological wounds, you can tell, but I was just an activist, I repeat, I was an activity that ran those activist protests, so we wouldn't be delayed by the cost of the river Cetina, from the factory... A long war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's a lot of damage, Mr. Mikulić. I have those who wanted it... Lobbies, owners of those stories, that influenced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are a number of entrepreneurs who would like to postpone this waste and earn a huge amount of money to get rid of from the Long War Industrial Expenses where the English have asked for the feroleur that remained and took the noble metal and sold it, the English company, so that the dust later from the Ferrolegura of the Long War factory would have intended to put it to a Chetinian end, of course where the biggest damage was done to these miners, is literally not there,... nor is it possible for anyone to have access to the mine in the city centre itself, and indeed the local community had absolutely no use for those miners, except that it still threatens us with the possibility that one day someone would come to think of or the inspector or the wife of the Deputy Prime Minister of some or some of their narrow family members would say that it was for the development of the Cetin area, we will delay the cost of TLM in Sibenik industrial or longtime. That's how you run the state. All inspections go down there. The reality is that it was a crime and at the award of concessions, the reality is that it wasn't remedied that it was a crime because someone had an obligation to legally resuscitate the miner. Whether from another exploitation field or otherwise, but according to the elaborat and the rehabilitation materials that were inside the elaborate in the mining project on recovery. I'm not saying this as an expert, but as an activist who lives by the mines to protect himself, his family, his neighbors, his children and, of course, the river's tributaries. I'm saying this as an ordinary man who's out in the field seeing what's going on and that's a fact. I mentioned the Adriaticman on Brač, and it's also huge damage. The best stone in the world, the brothers' stone, the White House made. What have we been led to? You don't know who owns it or who manages it. So wherever we look, wherever we go our natural potentials, resources, mineral raw materials we're talking about here about public procurement or mineral raw materials is the fact that it wasn't done for the sake of the development of the Republic of Croatia, the survival of young people in this area. It all came down to energy, and if we want to go a little further, it all came down to going into private pockets and the fact that the places where these rich resources and the potentials that the tribals used to develop in the environment, the fact that the only places left were empty and the other wounds, those miners that weren't recovered, instead of saying, like Mrs. Taritash earlier, that those spaces had been taken care of in the spatial plans, that they were sports recreation centers, that the parks were there near the sea, the beach. No, it all came down to concessions, to beaches, to mineral raw mining to be assigned to itself, to their loved ones, and that's a fact. This is why the Croatian state is at this level at this moment, and the State Audit has done its job. I read it interested these below stories of the Shipyard Split which is all working against the interests of Croatian shipbuilding, and the Croatian state owner of the shipyard subsidized in millions of kunas annually in hundreds of millions of kunas. You listed it in the report, even this year you submitted, and I even read that report for 2016. This is the fact that it is not working in the interest of development on our mineral raw materials resources and other potentials in the interests of local communities, but in the interests of individuals and money remains in individual pockets. What they say will be an inspectorate before 2013 was good now always the same, on the ground always the same, impoverished landscapes, exploitation fields left where they can still exploit fields is paid for paws that you will... with your pullens or in gas production or oil or minerals, it is known precisely so it is visible every day we can look at the way it is done. The thermal power plant itself now I will go again a centimeter away or wind power plants we see that billions of kunas per year give to foreigners for renewable energy sources, so we will for the plan, which will destroy both our water and our land and our air in the most beautiful ecological areas of the Republic that should be the potential of tourism development, means the tourist potential of eco-production what Croatia has and what our tourists need, and not only the sea and the coast, but also the surrounding and all the beauty that we have lakes, rivers, drinking water that we can drink from the lake river we have to guard, but in the interest of the local community, and not the individuals and to defend it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48333	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you spoke of public procurement and holes in the law that this law exists. I would mention, you were not from Zagreb you could notice in Zagreb that there are very many steps of these traffic and not even a problem with the price of these columns. One column costs you about 100 euros, I don't understand the price of those steps, but the problem is that these steps are placed where they shouldn't and where they should be. The city of Zagreb is not obliged to conduct public procurement for municipal shops up to 500 thousand kuna and then you have the fact that there are no steps around one lighting body, 10 are set up, these pillars cost 100 euros, that is about 200, 300 thousand kuna and by which criteria are set and who obtained them at that price. So I'm saying that there's a lot of holes in the law and local self-government units are using the law to sort of do murky jobs, here's the particular example of this is with columns.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48335	Thank you. Here's everything on the columns will be answered by the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48336	Well, it's part of the public procurement and certainly it's Zagreb's interest it's just maybe a drop in the sea you step in. The fact that... I see that metal are some steps, even here I see so the fact that in Croatia a lex sheriff would be brought to the state and that such mayors who manage money will and even are allowed to do so by law. That's why they're in power, and they rule, they're the Pharaohs, they have the power to share money as they suffer without any public procurement. And due to the condition one is missing, two hands we will have to pass the law to strengthen those sheriffs who are here in Zagreb only on the columns, only on the columns you said, you did not say up to 500 thousand kuna can be obtained without public procurement if I understood correctly. And the fact is that the Pharaoh system is being created, the power, and in this way he simply gives him social aid for electricity to pay for the water, something to help him and he's being forced into it. Because these leaders cheer to have as many social cases as possible and to have such public procurement, to lose as many jobs as possible. For what? So people can depend on them. Because when a man loses his dignity not by his own fault, but by the guilt of those local sheriffs, the bad laws, then those people simply owe them. And that's why this people need to wake up. It's not their money if people are in social trouble, it's the money of all of us and I hope the law, and the revision notices it will be much clearer and more transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48337	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48338	Dear colleague Bulj, I couldn't replicate my colleague Mikulic. He had the last one, so I'm gonna use it now because you mentioned this case again. And what happened was he called on institutions, so I'm saying that the problem and what you're saying now is about institutions that haven't responded. How is it possible for a man who heads the Mining Department to grant his wife and Mr Mikulić a concession, and this concession, which will be derived there, is much greater than the one prescribed in the Mining Act. And no one answered for it! Well, that's what we're talking about. And you know how I feel about my colleague Mikulić, that I've parked in a place for people with disabilities. Yes, he made a mistake, paid the fine and wrote on his Facebook that all of Croatia knows that I was wrong. I could have kept my mouth shut, paid the fine. If all those who have damaged Croatia had publicly announced what they have done, we would have been where we would have been.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48339	My colleague, but you don't replicate my colleague Mikulic. ... He mentioned it and you mentioned it. [[I'm not sure what you're talking about.]] I didn't warn him about it, but please don't. We're talking about the problem that we're talking about and the subject that we're talking about. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48340	Thank you very much. A fellow bushman, yes, simply the people who run the institutions it's amazing that the one who is at the head of one or the deputy chief inspector to get a concession on some kind of exploitation field, but about that. They're much more important and most important are those things that a man builds a system. Those who do their job cannot have a political simple impact on everyone. We can talk about what we want here, but on the ground where I live, where you live is visible that mineral raw materials, exploitation fields are exclusively given on the political path, the political path. That was the fight in Sinj for the miner. So it comes down to even the political level, that there are numerous lists and political issues, means simply political. But no one thinks of that people's well-being in that area at all. Simply by political resemblance and of course he will tell you fellow Mikulić that you have parked, that you have apologized or will seek my Homeland War medical records he is dealing with these things, and could have been at war because he is much older than me. So it's these people who just know how to get back, and it's the only job they do, and they're dressed like that. But the fact is that they are No, there is, there is. [[Intruder Reiner: Col. Bulj, this has really nothing to do with the revision.]] Those who have defended the Homeland are always willing to tell the truth, so in this case they have brought the state to the bottom and on the Peruch thermal power plant and on the exploitation fields and the award of concessions for exploitation fields and shipyards. And that's a fact because everything happened during the Homeland War and after the Homeland War. And now they're great experts. And I'm sure they were great experts, doing their job. Miro Bulj... I wouldn't be a parliamentary representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48341	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48342	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, therefore we can again agree that the State Audit find can guide us to which all the failures were made in the area of public procurement. You've spread it a little bit, so besides crime, you've talked here even about criminal association, where people, more people, more individuals, more business subjects, that it's customary to say not that they're in conflict of interest but that their interests match, and these interests are certainly not public, so they've joined together to get some funds. And I think it's the one who mentioned here today that even the pre-normation of the legal provisions won't get us to the finish line. If only the chairman wouldn't warn me about a short joke when they were one, when Haso Muju asked when he came back from England very wealthy, so where did you make the money, so he says on the cards. How on the cards is that pretty risky? So he says nice when we were supposed to show the gentleman's tickets from England they said you don't need to show the cards, it's worth the gentleman's word, so what do we say we have. And that's what Mujo says when I got my ticket. Yeah? In fact, I'm talking about the fact that in public procurement as much as you would standard these things, if there's any intention, if there's any intention of making things past the law, then it's going to be done. Because here's an example you're talking about examples here. The lady who runs the public procurement, her husband did not get a job on this, on public procurement, but his company was a cooperative who, after public procurement, was properly engaged in the job. Here are some examples of law enforcement. And I think that this is the only way that the findings of the State Audit through the years will move things from a dead end in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48343	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48344	You said that in an interesting tone, but it's a reality. The fact that public procurement is a huge problem, both locally and regionally, and through the state through all institutions, that public procurement is reduced to what is the worst, and that is the advantage. That's where the competition is destroyed. When competition is destroyed, is if he gets a bad job, then the one that's much better and better quality, he simply can't develop and he's failing. And they're more invaluable in essence and politically subdued, they stay on the market. Well, in the gas business today, we need to see it. Well, you'll see soon enough, which is why the pipelines of competitions and which is why thermoelectrics are also pushed through institutions, through inspectorates, through just one more permit, to study environmental impact, because it's a special story, an environmental impact study. They even said I had all the woods. And the hills said when they wanted to resuscitate that... They even said there were no birds' nests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You just can't get past that beautiful area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48345	Thank you. Now, we're half two practically, so we'll take a break by 3:00 and then proceed with the individual debate thank you very much. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48347	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the state's chief auditor and all his associates, they're in large numbers, so I'm glad, they're a lot even bigger than otherwise let's put it that way. What I would refer to today is that we have a united discussion of three reports, and what I will look at in my debate is the one that assesses the effectiveness of supervision in companies owned by local self-government units. 99 companies owned by units of local self-government were taken into account in this report, i.e. their effectiveness was assessed, and 29 companies were effectively overseeing business management. 65 companies effectively supervised their business management, meaning companies requiring certain improvements. Unfortunately, since I come from this area of sub-bibicoval and represent units of local self-government in this area amongst the 4 unfortunately companies whose supervision was not effective are needed certain improvements is the Macarian Communist. I wouldn't look back here, this is the first time we have, I think these are documents where we analyse locally in detail companies from Senj, from Bakar, Bjelovar, Metkovic and we have detailed information which the director by name and last name, which is the supervisory board, which is the assembly how she managed in the period 2014 and 15. I wouldn't look back here at that part or call someone by name, or bring this down to the SDP or HDZ debate. But I want to make it clear that we're going through some details of this report. This report can tell us that some companies are inefficient, these four certainly are, and it may also be a guideline for us to make certain legal improvements to make it easier for companies owned by local self-government units. So my goal is not to carry out dirty laundry here, but indeed, amongst the four inefficient companies, then there is a need to make a lot of changes in such a society. On page 4. here is the area of action of the Macarski Komunalec, which is defined in addition to waste disposal and waste management in the whole of business and tourist services, maritime and agency affairs. The future legislative solutions predict that such societies will not be able to deal with all these other matters, or finance these shortcomings that they have in that part of waste management with these other activities. Here on page 7, we see that in the Supervisory Board of the mentioned company, the profession and qualifications of members of the Supervisory Board were not appropriate, and the selection of directors was carried out only by the Assembly. The assembly consists of a member of the mayor. The director's obligations towards supervision are not at all required. So, the director of any written document doesn't have what his obligations are to the Supervisory Board. It is estimated here that members of the Supervisory Board at the five meetings they attended in 2014 and 2015 that they earned these 1000 kunas each session of the Supervisory Board, as the company earned profits. And it made a profit because it's not just about garbage, it's about tourism services, maritime and agency jobs. And that when we put into the context of the events that took place in 2014 we can also observe a little differently. The entire Croatian public was aware that the town of Makarska is taking the garbage 550km away and that the cost of 30000 kuna per day is increasing. And they simply funded their expenses from those activities that in other places, municipalities, and cities in the neighborhood feed hundreds of families. So they rented deck chairs, they had concessions by the lights, and they made a profit. But the problem is that, so they didn't effectively run that part of the business well for nothing but garbage. Of course, that's not just the problem with them. The area means from which I come touristic has amazing numbers. The town of Makarska itself has over a million nights, and it is clear that there is a lot of garbage being created and that no waste management issues have been resolved from national level, no regional centre has been resolved, a regional waste dump. But the situation is now such that a lot of activities will have to be done from the state level, there will be a lot of new regulations, there will be a lot to be adopted in order for waste management to be effective. If we have a company in the field that does not include in planning, means the Supervisory Board, where the Supervisory Board does not make recommendations to the management of society at all, then it is questionable whether all these challenges will be successfully overcome by such companies. The chairman of the Supervisory Board, he simply said in writing that although he is reviewing the documents, if we believe him on this matter, there is no record at all. There is no prior consent, this is very interesting for individual decisions because there was no situation that required that one supervision in such a society would give prior consent. I would also read here, so on page 13, it was also not required to carry out certain business activities in order to reduce the risk of business, preventive action and protection of property. Because, according to the chairman of the Supervisory Board, I don't want to name him at all, there were no circumstances that would require it. The amount of receipts by the Director shall be determined on the basis of the contract concluded by the Assembly, or one person mayor. The Supervisory Board did not discuss the appropriateness of the level of reception of the administration. So it is very specific if we now return to some specific situation that in 2014, we alarmed the entire Croatian public about the problems of the company, and we felt that there were no such decisions and such circumstances to include decisions made by the administration, or by one member of the Supervisory Board. So I call on the representatives of the city of Makarska, I did not sensationally refer them to it, but what is really and fundamentally to study this report well. The new representatives have been here since 2017. I see they've appointed a new Supervisory Board, that, indeed, according to all the recommendations of the State Audit, they're making changes. Because we can't present the State Audit report, of course, there are a lot of recommendations here. And it's good and it's no big deal if the company gets a few recommendations so it gets better, so it works better every year. But if you get an estimate that out of 99 companies you're in 4 that didn't have effective supervision with the necessary, significant improvements means that the thing is still alarming. So I call on representatives to carry out and improve company supervision in cooperation with other company bodies. It's less important that this finding is embarrassing to me personally, to welcome. Here is only when I came to work at the Croatian Parliament, meaning on the Committee on Finance, at the end of 2016 what is important is that effective surveillance is damaged by the citizens of the city of Makarska daily. And if there are new challenges ahead of such a company, and the fact is that they are coming, that they are dealing with one problem that is complex, which is not simple, that simply in the future with such management and management will endanger the overall meaning of tourism and the city, and we see what this results at national level. On the other hand, the State Attorney's Office will parallelly determine the responsibilities of the legal person and the responsible person, but there are other tools and improvements that can be implemented, so that this municipal enterprise at local level is ready for all the challenges expected in the future regarding waste management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48348	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Panneic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48349	Just when you were talking about issues dealing with the municipal company, there is actually a question of the show, which is why a municipal company is being established. I don't know if a utility company has been established anywhere to deal with something that is economic activities that belong to the private sector. But it seems to me that in your case exactly where you can't achieve it, you can't maximise the effects, where you can't be the best, then through such high-income activities as you have, you're trying to make up for it. And you're actually covering up one real threat, which is that those basic activities of companies owned by local or regional authorities don't work. Here are the examples we have of me, recently there was a debate where it was just about who should run the company, if it was, for example. The President of the Management Board shall be appointed. This company came into trouble, a pre-departure settlement was carried out, and then the company continued to produce the same negative result. And the supervisory board says it's okay. I mean, and then we really need to question, not only are all decisions correct in accordance with the statutes, with the decisions of the congregation, but also the effectiveness of their work. It's something that's missing. Unfortunately, it's not within your range, you can estimate something, but it's very difficult to measure it. But the bigger problem is whether we can set the standards of measurement in future, how administrations and supervisory boards, in what they do, will be able to manage the supervisory board. Now, we've had a debate about a new agricultural land law. What's a little bit of me here, especially it's hard for me to explain, that... will be a new category, these are companies that could manage the country and get a direct agreement on this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48350	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48351	I thank my colleague. That's right, I don't think it's comforting that this company is in the next town, not the one I'm in, but anyway, it's the area I represent. So this has three dimensions. So that dimension of legal regulation, because we see, that someone has thought, that even though it was founded by local self-government units, they're dealing with commercial activity, so they need to be limited and they're going in that direction. But here's the thing, unfortunately, someone's got it in their head. So I essentially explained that this particular activity is being done in other cities, municipalities, food for 100 families, property. What a situation it would be in a bigger city we can only imagine. Unfortunately, there is one where this report of the State Review on the efficiency of surveillance, we can also read these other data, that there are no figures at all, that there is no view of financial sustainability at all, because here we can see in fact that simply in the Supervisory Board there was no data on the rentability of society, quite a few of these documents are missing. And so, and in these recommendations of the State Audit, it can be influenced that such companies, such changes, to encourage, to force, better said, should force them, to really do what their job is and to be effective and to be clear and to be positive about what they do and what they do negatively, to see clearly and to eliminate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48352	Thank you. The next is a replica, respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48353	Dear colleague Roscic, I am very sorry that the State Audit cannot enter the CNB. What State Audit, can't knock on the door and say we want to have an insight into your business. It's about billions. You'll say, Mr. Pernar, you're one demagogue, you throw some stories here, etc. Why don't you make a concrete proposal? Here are the ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, the Bridge has put you on a bill that lets the State Audit into the CNB. You all voted against that bill. Now who's the demagogue? That's where you showed that you advocated supporting the work of the State Audit, and in fact what, you support her dissatisfaction, because you don't allow her to enter the most important state institution, the CNB. The second thing, you were obviously giving on the political line, the millions of credits to Agrokor, the loans you knew would never be returned, based on what? Based on false financial reports. Why? So you can get 100 million kuna loans from the state. The State Audit doesn't have to go to Ivica Todorovic and say, "Give us the books." But he pays some auditor, he writes him whatever he wants and goodbyes. So all companies receiving millions of loans from the state must also be covered by the State Audit. Because otherwise, a situation like today can happen, that millions disappear into the wind and no one responds to it. Unfortunately, I don't see in HDZ the will to actually clear up the financial situation in huge entities, but you do, I don't know in Makarska some I don't know it's all petty compared to Agrokor and the CNB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48354	Thank you. The honourable representative Roscic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48355	My colleague Pernar, if we want to be effective, then we would do well to discuss this, and the topic of entering the State Audit into the CNB with concrete factors has been discussed in quite detail. I even accept that you can come here now at 3 and 15 and ask what you're interested in about the subject because some key words are related to this topic today, but then you would expect that the specific information and topics that were mentioned in the debate regarding the entry of the State Audit into the CNB mentioned, and then we can specifically. And this is how we talk only in general, and you don't contribute to clarifying the issue better, discussing it and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48356	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48357	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's today, there's been a lot of untruths brought out here, and I'm a man who likes to talk in arguments, papers black on white, so let's prove what we're saying. So it's been said here that someone once gave a company, probably thinking of the Adriankamen firm in a concession. While Andrija Mikulić was co-owner, he was never awarded a concession but an exploitation field. But since we have two types of parliamentary representatives here in the Croatian Parliament, it is one that specializes in individual debates, and one is doctors of general practice who know everything and talk about all topics or prepare them, so it would be good to prepare them qualityly, reasoned or prepared from the press. But it speaks of them not of anyone else. Dale, that's one thing. Exploitation field does not concession, but for this you need to have a certain quantity of knowledge, a little study of legislation and see what the concept of a single legislation is. The next thing he said was about the cost. So let me say that the cost is not mineral raw materials to start with and that the people who illegally exploited it, the colleague listed Ziglana Sinj, wrote a letter to the institutions of the Croatian state to spend it there. And you know why? To cover up illegal exploitation, just the ones from Sinj. There's no such thing. The coordinated action of the inspectorate or the Ministry of Economy has prevented it, all other institutions have been involved, it is publicly available to all, but material needs to be studied, to be prepared for something. It's about the Ciglana Sinj. You still have one field of Stipanovic's reef and I'll say it, so according to the information I have, and they gave me the relevant factors to do it legally. Resuscitation is consistent with exploitation. We had an area near one city, near the town of Metkovic where there was an illegal exploitation of a gentleman, so regardless of the members of this party or that party he was processed, he paid all the fines and now order was introduced. Therefore, some things for the sake of truth need to be said. 400 families have lived from the Adriatic since 1905. I'm not going in now, that's not the point it was an inspection about the bankruptcy of the processes that occurred, but the Croatian public needs to know some things. Stone Pazin, what are you and those fields going to close? It's a good thing it's not in the Croatian Parliament. But let's get back to the scale of things. So about 4,000 years before Christ were the first things to come about exploiting gold in Egypt, and then the first map from that area 3,000 years ago, so that's something we need to know when we talk about mineral raw materials and mining. I'm not talking about Austria right now, about Germany, about salt mines, coals, etc. He who wants to read it a little bit. What is important here is not far from us Zagreb Mountain Medvednica in the 17th century, the exploitation of lead, copper and silver begins, so I had a history about that part. Our colleague Demtlik is from Istria, he's tied to mining, the last coal mine was closed in '99, 1999 in the Republic of Croatia, but coal is not a synonym for mining. So we have the basis of laws and energy mineral raw materials and raw materials for industrial processing and architectural building stone that is so often mentioned that has its history from America, Vienna Courts, Diocletian, etc. What I'm saying is that maybe another piece of information, somewhere around 10500 miners, was when the coal mine was tied to Istria, several locations. So we're talking about 10500 human lives and family. What matters, and I saw it in the review report, that meeting I call for March 2017, where coordination between bodies is, only so can it be the result, only in this way no different. Now, you're under surveillance, so you can determine something if you don't have one coordination through the judiciary regarding the process of these things. And again, between these institutions and one another, we can learn a lot, or we have learned. It's no accident to say that the mining law is written in sweat and blood, there's a reason why that's the case. So there's a lot of stuff that's been said casually, superficially. What does recovery mean? You've heard some people do this, which means recovery and what kind of recovery we have. So, technically and biologically. It's a technical remediation of that recovery that's being carried out succesively, concesively with exploitation. But some things you should know simply if you are dealing with them, I said in the opening work what I think about doctors general practice in the sense that they know about every topic everything. When you do not meet certain concession conditions and to talk about what stage something is, you need to know the concession which is and what are the conditions. When it comes to breaking up the concession, it is said here that it is not done this morning. And I'll tell you that 15 concessions at the Ministry of Economy broke up, and about 60 exploitation fields in Croatia have been wiped out, taken over by the Republic of Croatia. There are competitions for these fields, competitions. Public competitions. Therefore, the procedures are well - known there. What I'm trying to tell you is that in Croatia, around today, you have 140 investigative spaces and about 860 exploitation fields. The investigative space is a prerequisite for something you determine whether there is or not mineral raw materials. So today you have about 350 companies and crafts dealing with this activity. Somewhere around 8, 8 and a half thousand people are directly bound and when we add that transport, when we add that transport, you have about 20 thousand people in that segment, which is directly, which is indirectly tied to the Republic of Croatia for this activity. Therefore, all those who said that a fellow Shucker who had a dream had woken up, interestingly while they were on that side of Mark's square, had not come to know these problems. They see from this position today for these problems. So it's a good thing you've seen it. You had gentlemen, ministers who were in the government, the only thing they did was raise their hand against their colleagues who worked with them until yesterday, but that's another topic. Therefore, no concession has ever been awarded, but an exploitation field, it should know the differences, little can be seen. At a time when I was one of the co-owners, and I showed it all and proved it in the relevant places where it was supposed to be, and even no one concluded that in some ways it would be as clean and transparent as it was. So, at least I'm expecting it. I expect to be told the truth here in this House, the other day I listened to the sermon of a bishop who says that people should be forgiven because if you don't forgive them, it's not a punishment for him, it's a punishment for you that you haven't forgiven, so I will forgive you because I think you're saying it out of ignorance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48358	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Nikola Grumoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48359	Your Honor, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Mikulić, for being so generous, for forgiving me for saying the concession instead of exploiting the field, but that doesn't change the measure of things. And the measure of things is that the company where you were co-owner, and in which Mr. Krasic's wife was given that exploitation field, so that this company that got that field worth billions was sold, now I'm going to tell you exactly how much. For 70,000 euros. And now you want to convince me here and the Croatian public that something doesn't smell. And I, as a reasonable man, see that there's something wrong. And that the man who was in the Mines Department, and you yourself admitted to being an assistant, that you had a parallel company with that Mr. Krasic's wife, and that this firm was getting those exploitation fields. Well, I know the institutions haven't proven anything, so that's the problem of this Croatia where we talk all the time, me and my colleague Bulj. That's the problem, that's the problem. And you feel free to forgive me for this exchange of words that don't change anything in terms of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48360	The answer of the respected MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48361	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy, you've just said, and the Croatian public doesn't know how much you understand. You're going, you're asking for a driver's license and you have a doctor's license, you haven't passed your tests. Based on an exploitation field which is the basis of everything related to exploitation in the Republic of Croatia cannot be exploited. So, it didn't, so let me, it didn't go off. And don't lie to the Croatian public. And tell lies. I said, and now I'm going to remind you because repeating is the mother of knowledge, so it's good for the future. On July 24, 2004, I was appointed assistant. In November 2003 HDZ won the election, and you see when I sold my stake in the company. So the Croatian public will see who's talking and who's not telling the truth. But that's still not what you were doing, so you had a model of MOST public competitions, watch out for miracles, right in Metkovic you hired your two cousins. Watch out for miracles. Watch out for miracles. All right, about that later. It's about that. You resent me when I tell you what facts and facts are, which is that you parked in a place for people with disabilities. You got a sign down there, you got a sign up there. You know what the sign says on that sign? If you took my parking space, would you take my disability? So imagine, you've paid the fine and you're boasting about it. So imagine what you'd do if you were able to do? So when you're talking, I'm saying these facts and facts, and you take out the papers and we'll face whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48362	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48363	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Mikulić said that some MPs here act as politicians of general practice and his intention was to say that they should not be directed or familiar with a wide range of topics, but should only have some narrowness and only this narrow range of topics should be discussed. But what did Mr. Mikulić miss? So he was promoted that when the vote comes in the House, then all MPs vote, and if the MPs are not referred to the subject of how do they vote, Mr Mikulic? So your HDZ colleagues don't vote because they're on the subject. They actually, well said, they have no idea about the subject because they are not present when discussing topics, but only come Friday at noon and vote in favour or against depending on what the club president's directive tells you. This is your policy. And secondly, what you gentlemen are missing in HDZ are politicians of general practice. Because if we had a general-practice politician, then those politicians would have the breadth. If we had the width we would see in which direction they were leading Croatia and we would understand the direction of guilt, we need to change something. But since they have no width, unfortunately, then they catch up with some potentially positive detail, they take it out of context and then show that the situation in Croatia is great, that we go for better etc. And the reality is that we're actually constantly falling apart for the last 27 years, regardless of what governments are in power. And unfortunately, none of you in HDZ, nor in the SDP, want to look at a wider picture and say this system has to change, but it just keeps going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48364	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48365	Dear Representative Pernar, I'm sorry, but it's necessary for people to concentrate and listen to what someone's saying. I didn't say politicians of general practice, but it's dangerous for this country when people who have been trusted here are acting as doctors of general practice and know everything about it. I've spent 23 years of my life since I graduated, investing only in one segment, unlike some who know everything. And they woke up yesterday and they think the world started with them, and the best answer to that is choices when people tell you that you're not in favour of position, but that you're in favor of opposition, then the people told you everything. And imagine if I were in my neighborhood running for office and lost, imagine that? That's when the people told you everything. When you lose in your midst, then he said thank you for everything you've done in the last four years, he recognized your work and he said he's fine, you'll train for another four years, and then you'll be on the bench eventually heading for the first team. And if you were at which session of the Croatian Democratic Community and the coalition partners, then you would see what the debate is and what the conclusions are. The basic principle of democracy, respecting the will of the majority. So I answered absolutely everything. And I welcome that we all stand together for a systematic, not a partial solution, because of a partial solution there is nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48366	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48367	Comrade Mikulic, this isn't a classroom here. You were the inspector at the inspectorate, deputy state inspector or assistant or whatever you say. But in the field, the situation was next. It was a recovery or exploitation or a concession. There are five miners in my area where I live, I repeat. The only intention was that there was no respect for the rescue, and you were the inspector, you worked at the Inspectorate. I was brought in by the police to stop the ecoicide, and I got hit 20 times. And it's bad, there was crime. There was no crime? You're telling a generalist that we're dangerous, that we don't know anything. Well, it wasn't '91. knew until we were shaved with a gun of baratates, so we learned, we got the strongest strength that she thought was the strongest and the most arrogant. When you're talking, you've got a fantastic attitude. The situation is catastrophic in terms of mineral raw materials, the mining of the Adriatic stone in the Cetinska krajina area, in the Zagreb area, either you go. The only thing that's exploiting is the people that have nothing to do with it. Someone puts the money in their pocket, and the rescue is gone, they don't go through other than the waste mob that wants to take care of it, not according to the lab, the mining lab, that is. about the recovery because there's part of it, so the elaborate has both exploitation and recovery. I know that because I had to lead the protests to protect my children, Cili Sinj, Cetinski end while you were an inspector, it brought me in. And Mladneo wrote, your colleague but in the other ministry, and you didn't control, wrote solutions on the quality of the cost from the Long War so that it could be deposited in the mines next to Cetina. You didn't react. I've filed criminal charges against both the inspector and everyone, one fifty. It was me who was brought in and tried. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] I've got fifty criminal charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48368	Thank you. Thanks, buddy Bull. The answer of the distinguished MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48369	Dear Representative Bully, so I've said it a few times. First you're saying you're going to say what we're going to say in the Parliament? I don't understand what classroom you're talking about. I didn't realize what you were talking about. The second I said on several occasions, neither the inspector nor the deputy, the assistant chief state inspector, and he gave you a specific domain in which he works. But the Croatian people must know that. So it's facts and facts. I'm not going to deal with it, I said this morning with medicine, health care, economics, I'm going to do what I've been trained to do my whole life. And I'm investing and I'm going to invest while I'm alive, as far as I'm concerned... knowledge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'll never give myself the right to know something that some people do all their life, so that's a matter of personal choice for each individual. You weren't in the assembly, so I'll repeat, so the representatives of the Force Sinj have requested that the cost be postponed in that field of exploitation. The inspectorate and the Ministry of Economy both opposed it. And the crumbs are up there... and this is a coordinated action and a good example of the cooperation of two bodies. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[Intruder Rainer: colleague Bulj, don't throw away all the time, so I don't have to warn you every once in a while, please.]] These are the facts you see it, there are memos, you can ask for them, you can see them, and we can go to the field. I said, second location, Stipanovic Greda, it's done, based on the law. When we talk about labs, projects, etc. You've determined the amount and quality of the reserves by means of the elaborat, not what you're saying. The project is something else, which has a part in it called recovery. Both technology and the way something is exploited. But I agree, let's systematically, come to a solution together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48370	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of the God of Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48371	I honestly don't know who I'm supposed to refer the line to. I don't know if you should direct the President's replica or your replica. I believe the representatives of the State Audit are at least interested in parts, but I don't think they're in this House today to listen to the defense of your honor, based on something expressed through one presentation, but we should discuss the law. But what offends me much more, offends me that in at least 10 times, you compared doctors of general practice, as charlatans and strangers. And the chairman is a doctor, my colleague. But you're obviously allowed if you're the same party. I would just ask you, if you have problems with general practice doctors, don't go to them, and they certainly know more than you know in your profession. What I'm about to tell you for the end, you can talk about the field of exploitation, you can talk about concessions, you can talk about review, you can talk about everything you need to do, you've proven yourself. We all know it completely, and we know it best. Because at the moment we warned you about all the things that were happening, and you wouldn't be laughing, you said a famous sentence, that is, your Faraum because you are not ruled by democracy, and that is also generally known after this year and a half, the secretary, prepare it resolved, and you have promoted it, as the greatest achievement, the greatest barrage that has happened in the history of RS politics, you have promoted as the best. You want to do a good thing, you want to do it? Have the State Audit enter the CNB, have the courage, make one positive move, one in these 20 years, and I'll take your hat off, and you'll get a chance to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48372	Thank you. Dear Representative Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48373	First distinguished representative Petrov, it seems to me that you have still enjoyed the role of President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you're not the president of the Croatian Parliament, and don't talk and document who needs to be done, so that's one thing. The other thing, the people said about you. In the election, where you claimed you'd go fantastic. Well, the people rated you. You've been rated by the people. As for that part, what you're saying, I haven't said a word and underestimated doctors of general practice, quite the opposite. [[Please don't throw it out of the bench, please.]] On the contrary. But the time you're going to give people what they're going to say and the finger like this has passed by a distinguished colleague. What you only did, it's that you wanted to change the systematization of a company, be careful... Well, it's a godfather or a relative that we hire in that position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, that's right, because in some things when you talk about the Croatian Parliament here, take care and don't act like some colleagues, so when they didn't get what they wanted, in terms of the agenda, they leave the session. This is where we speak and justify the trust of the people who gave us. Therefore, I ask you when you speak and call and when you throw away, whether it is a question of general culture, a general culture in the Croatian Parliament, and let the people conclude why you are doing it, then I ask you to use expressions that are appropriate in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48374	Thank you. You're the one who broke the rules of procedure, my colleague Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48375	Of course, you shouldn't know as chairman whether or not the representative made a lie, but I think he knows very well that he lied.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48376	I'm sorry, what's the section of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48377	It's an article, I'm sorry, it's article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48378	And what item?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48379	Or the 238th demeaning and carrying out lies,... I want to read you an entire article 238. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Shuker wants to show how long he's been in Parliament, and I'm green in the Parliament, so I don't know that there are items within the articles, but here's Mr. Schuker just for you and all the citizens who are watching us, article 238, which has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.7 items on dissuasion, insulting MPs I've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Okay. Next time I'll tell you exactly that. If anyone shouldn't answer for a doctor's appointment, you shouldn't answer, but here I hope that when this is all over, you'll look at the video and look at your attitude and your hands, and it'll be enough. And as for the very way in which Mr. Representative has offended, I would pray, indeed, for true information to be presented in the House, and not when someone needs to perform it the way he thinks it is, and none of my cousins do. He's not busy. [[Invader Reiner: Col. Petrov.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48380	You've exceeded a significant amount of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48381	I didn't miss at all. The gentleman insulted me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48382	You've significantly exceeded your time even though you claim to know the Rules of Procedure very well, that's one thing. The other thing is, as you know very well, I can't judge or ever preside over whether anyone is telling the truth or not. How could I know if your representatives are telling the truth or HDZ representatives, the SDP, any party is telling the truth or not. Therefore, I cannot judge. I can judge if anyone has offended anyone. I judge he didn't insult anyone, and the terms that were used by some of your representatives, so personally, someone else can take offense, someone else doesn't. However, I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. ... You can't, you can't do business. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You claim to know the Rules of Procedure, and then you know you can't. ... Comrade Petrov, you can't throw from the scene. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll punish you. ... You keep throwing yourself out of place again. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You think that's gonna get you something, you think that's a way of communicating in this House is appropriate? I don't think so. I'm begging you don't do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48383	I apologize, but at the very beginning I didn't insult you and I said that you can't judge if it's a lie, but what you would just ask... [[Intruder Reiner: You cannot speak from the site.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48384	I give you a warning from my colleague Petrov. The next replica is the respected Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48385	Thank you very much. I think we've now come to that situation that is repeated, that we always find someone even among us who has some connection to certain events. Of course, I understand fellow Mikulić that he is defending himself now, but the fact is also that there are statements and people who know them somewhere, there are numerous inscriptions and I am fascinated that from time to time we discover colleagues who, or journalists, find them and then question them about the details that are controversial to them, but I think that you should not now be raised here for these minutes, two, three, but simply if you call someone and write an open letter, please refer them to the Bridge Club as well, refer to the public, justify your actions with that if you do not think that you may belong to that statement that was about you to justify yourself, and that would be the most just thing. In this way, by legitimizing yourself perhaps by attacking members of the Club of Representatives of the Most, then you certainly did not improve your position of eating in this debate that is being raised where journalists are surely following it, where the storm rises again you will be the target, your connection of the godfather, cousin to the subject, I think you should look at it in this way, not to seek a break from the topic that is when it comes to exploitation and mineral wealth. Here you know just as well and I was in that ministry that the problem of controlling the use of mineral raw materials is one of the key ones where the lack of personnel, the inspectors who might professionally oversee it became cancer of the wounds of the entire system and we a little bit, so we have examples where either using the permits which is bad or using more than what is specified contract and assigned. Therefore, let's not run away from that problem, but in fact by your performance and disdain and us here as my colleagues' representatives... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48386	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48387	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Panenic, two things, first I did not attack anyone, I presented facts and arguments. And secondly, I have nothing to defend myself from. Well, you're not council representatives, gentlemen, so don't give yourself the authority you don't have. I was talking there that I should've talked about and there were some conclusions there. They didn't bring me into the process and they didn't tell me I was guilty of anything. I'm not attacking anyone, I'm telling the facts, so it's very simple. I'm sorry you weren't here this morning when I was saying a part on behalf of the club about mineral raw materials. I was talking about the State Audit and the report, and a colleague here just said we were talking about the law. No, so we're talking about the State Audit report not the law. I mean, let's concentrate when we already have the pay for what we're doing here, so we know what we're talking about when we're picking up a certain minute, a minute, two how much we're going to talk about or on behalf of the club a little bit more. So I don't attack anyone, but I won't be attacked without arguments, no. Let the gentlemen who said the papers bring it in and let them say where the mistake was made. To start a company and be a good businessman, you have to have some references. It's not a reference, go somewhere and do something, it's a reference that you have to be responsible for people you pay wages to, etc. So, I'm not attacking, I'm talking argumentarily, and there's nothing to defend myself because everything you're saying, you're talking in the wind. I'll remind you it's 2003 and 2004 so check all the registers for any elements for anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48388	Thank you. The next individual debate is that of the distinguished representative Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48389	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected state auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I listened to these lines, I remembered one event there at the end of the 1990s when the board of the volunteer fire company arrived who collected voluntary contributions and memberships in the streets, then they handed it over, they all taught the amounts and they took, one man who was a returner from Germany not only wrote how many households he had given but even sorted out all the bills and had so many 100 kuna bills, so much from 50, so much from 20, 10, and when he gave it all up, he said so in Germany. Why did I remember this story? I will once again commend these audit reports because they tell us three things first. First, he speaks, in fact, showing how the reports should work. Methodologically and to all other aspects. Secondly, they show what are the failures made, and thirdly, perhaps even more important, give concrete instructions and advice to the ministries how to, how can I improve to protect public interest. This is specifically related to what I mentioned today in the replica, 10% of the amount of hydrocarbons obtained, and that is the second observation you have made that the market value of hydrocarbons is determined more frequently than on the basis of the elaborates every 5 years. So these are concrete measures that can help the Republic of Croatia protect its interest. And in that sense, this is also an indication that audit findings can be directed into the Republic of Croatia and all its institutions to go towards the direction of protection of public interests. Let me just look back at the public procurement one more time. The point of public procurement is of course to get the best service, work or goods at the lowest prices and the best quality of these services. And that's the point of that acquisition, very simple. However, you in your report have pointed to a series of actually failures where it wasn't quite so. Of course taking into account that happens in practice, it's someone mentioned today, the law is one, but in practice happens a number of cases, here's an example where the contractor chooses, where everything is fine, then he goes into bankruptcy, so you have to do it all over again, so you don't know where he left off, make the situation, so he got, for the elevator he got the money and didn't install, the windows he put in, for them he got the money, so of course there's a series of problems in which then the supervisory engineers got involved. So, the public procurement process is by no means a simple process, from the preparation of documentation to the selection of performers, so the work itself, at the end of the handover where supervisory engineers appear, so let's make a joke again, so it's just like baking, that kind of solution. So, it's a complex procedure and you've found a lot of these remarks in this process and you've traveled, of course, to the competent ministries and these companies, and now there's actually the only way out of this situation that they're really doing everything to fix these shortcomings, it's the only way. You also gave your report both of course signals to the State's Attorney's office and to the competent institutions, if there is any suspicion of criminal offences, that it is then investigated because colleagues today discussed it. Because it's little, it's really strange and unusual that, you've found that inefficient procurement in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia that from, as I've already mentioned today, 10 kuna 7 kuna is not effective. Look, it's not 1 kuna, that 7 means, 70% of the public procurement is questionable to us. And we're talking about billions of kunas, here's the minister mentions taxes on vehicles over 10 years old, so they had real estate taxes, so then we have extra insurance where people are very sensitive, where people are afraid of a certain amount, maybe that's tens of kunas they need to raise, and on the other hand we have to get through our fingers of girls billions of kuna. And that's actually the meaning of this revision, I hope that all those to whom this revision is addressed, and to us Assembly representatives, of course, will be more served by those who need to act, that they will remove these shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48390	Thank you very much. And I would like to conclude a debate on these five points that we have discussed together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u48391	Report on the effectiveness of the public procurement system carried out in companies. The applicant is the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the effectiveness of the public procurement system carried out in companies is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that with 119 votes for, 2 abstentions, a conclusion has been reached in line with the proposal of the Assembly home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49104	We will now move on to the following point: - Report on the financial audit carried out by the political party, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government selected from the list of groups of voters for 2015. The Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Chief State Auditor Mr Ivan Klešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciable MPs and MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, the State Audit Order has provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of representative bodies, units of local and regional (regional) self-government selected from the list of voters for 2015. The financial audit covers entities that made revenues above 100,000 in 2015, which are 18 parliamentary and 20 outside parliamentary political parties, 6 independent representatives and 2 members of local unit representative bodies. In addition, the financial reports for 2015 were published for 49 outside the parliamentary political parties of 49 members of the representative bodies of local units who did not submit an annual financial report with components by May 2016, means an annual work programme, a financial plan, and a report on the donations received. The review of political parties expressed 16 unconditional, 21 conditional, one unfavourable opinion on the Bosniak democratic party of Croatia. For all independent representatives, the unconditional opinion has been expressed. For one member of the representative body of the local unit, it shall be expressed unconditionally and for another conditional opinion. Let me give you a few more details below. The total revenues of the audits of the political parties covered amounted to 155.4 million kuna, most of which relate to revenues from the state budget, i.e. 73.2 million kuna and revenues from the budget of local units, EUR 37.2 million. Other revenues relate to fees of 11.4 million, donations of 22.5 million kuna and revenues from other sources of 11.1 million kuna. The expenditure amounted to Kuna 157.4 million of which are the most significant in the amount of $120.5 million in terms of material expenditure. The total revenues of independent MPs amounted to 2.3 million kuna and were achieved from the state budget and other sources. Their expenditures amounted to 2.9 million kuna. The review of political parties identified irregularities relating to the execution of the order and recommendations from past audits, the internal control system, planning and accounting operations, income and expenditure, the use of business premises, and the financing of election promotion. In addition to the office mentioned, it also carried out a check on the delivery of annual financial reports to political parties, independent representatives and members of local unit representative bodies whose mandate is under way. The financial reports were submitted by 115 political parties, 99 of which within the prescribed deadline, 16 outside the prescribed deadline until 48 political parties stopped the financial report, noting that the financial reports for 2015 were mandatory to place 163 political parties. All independent representatives submitted financial reports within the legal deadline. Of the 920 members of the representative bodies to whom the mandate is under way 25 did not submit financial reports until December 2016. A review has also been carried out of financial reports by political parties and independent representatives. Its financial reports were published by 90 political parties until 73 outside the parliamentary political party published financial reports. All independent representatives have published financial reports on web sites. The Office has notified the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia and the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia of any infringements of the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion. Dear MPs and MPs, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49106	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first to be honored representative of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49107	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr Klesic, if I listened well, you mentioned the amount of 22 and a half million kuna donations that political parties received in 2015. Twenty-two-and-a-half million kunas if I've heard the amount well. And it seems to me that the topic that we previously discussed when we were talking about public procurement, and this amount mentioned here, that our public procurement would be more transparent if we were to prohibit donations to political parties of all those legal entities, companies or crafts that appear to be competitions that, which were called by any state, were state-owned companies, whether units of local self-government. I think that would help transparency. Of course, I'm not convinced it's legal, but when we talked here about funding political parties, it was a lot of opposition, but I think that's the way that transparency of donations would explain to political parties, and then regulation of public procurement. Because no one can say with certainty that whoever's doing business with the state, and while there's a certain political option there's no reason to donate it to the political option, let's say thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49108	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49109	Dear Representative Sagar, I'll give you a very short answer. Of course you're right about what you said. The donations are 22.5 million kuna, but what's important to emphasize is that we connect donors and suppliers. And if in this relationship we determine certain irregularities we deliver it to the State's Attorney's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49110	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49111	Thank you very much. Dear state auditors, here I am, and I have looked at this part of the independent representatives in your report. What I would actually ask you is a question, and I've been through it myself, because as an independent agent, I'm still in the local community. The whole weight of the burden passed on to individuals really goes beyond measures to say maybe even unnecessary. Many difficult circumstances are that independent individuals are registered as political actors especially in keeping records. I'm not saying that there are no unnecessary ones, there's a really necessary place to show. But a number of procedures that are during the electoral procedure, during the submission of the application really go beyond the needs of looking at what is probably from your reports when numerous reports, a whole series, which actually make sense when it comes to a political party as a uniting entity, a united report where one is full, crosses a level that would be in some and even in accounting itself. Looking at companies we have complex, we have simple. And really here would be your findings from the review, since I see that independent representatives or councilors have the means to make sure that you think about it primarily in the Ministry of Administration, about the relief, because in the end, here I have convinced myself, it's not only difficult for us who are independent, but also for the administration, which we bring all these powerful documents in paper form, so electronically, so it delivers there, so a special page that has to be. I think it's important to you, and to the public, that something has been published in one sense somewhere, what's important is that we hand over a whole series of papers that will be present somewhere, then we make it difficult for you. I can only think when we send all our reports as much as it burdens you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49112	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49113	Yeah, you're in one piece... right because according to the new bill, all those who will have less than 5000 kuna are not obliged to apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's where the problem's gonna come in, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49114	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I'm opening a debate and the first one on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club will speak to the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49115	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we know that all HDZ financial reports have been accepted by the State Audit and that HDZ has never been denied financial resources despite all witness statements, meaning people who spoke in court about HDZ business. However, he would not now be dealing with the Jezic and the team, the HDZ tellers, etc. than you'd like to point something else out. And it is that systematically in our people we serve to deal with small things. So I don't know, we're talking about a Bosniak party here, which has been denied a positive report. And let's just say, it's not said that the CNB where billions are spinning, that there's a financial or state audit that can't get in. Why is that? It's strange to me, too, that the State Audit isn't being advertised on that matter. That the State Audit has no interest in entering the CNB either. And why is that? Because CNB policy doesn't interest anyone here. The role of the CNB, their work is irrelevant to the Croatian Parliament. There's never a debate about CNB's monetary policy here. The only one who starts a debate about it is us from the Living Wall. The business of the CNB is also not discussed, why, because the CNB is not the subject of the State Audit. And what do we have? We have a state in the state, we have an institution that is of God state, and the state has no control over it. Let's start by assuming that I'm an HNB employee and that I stole a million kunas and took them in my pocket and went home with it. Who's to say there's a shortage? Only my superiors at the CNB, what if they work with me? Nothing, ate the donkey wolf. So the governor could hypothetically pull out 100 million kunas, the euro, what he wanted, who could determine that deficit. Who can say no money? No one. No one, simply his words are believed as he would have said, as the Holy Scriptures and no one controls them. Who's in the interest of who? On the other hand, it is clear who voted against the State Audit entering the CNB. These are colleagues from HDZ was a concrete proposal on the table, they said, we don't want the State Audit going in there. Why they voted like that, I wonder today. If it's all clear, if it's all legal, if there's nothing controversial about their business, then why is the problem with the State Audit going in there? And what I'm trying to tell you is that the Croatian people are expecting us to change, but we will not be able to give these changes until the role of the CNB is changed to the people. All economic indicators are negative, the country is falling into the abyss, and here we are, the State Audit convinces that it's more or less okay. Here are the gentlemen from the State Audit, you're doing a review of the Bosniak Democratic Party and you say it's not satisfying their report. So who cares about this client? Who cares about the Croatian people what their business is? The Croatian people are interested in the CNB's work report, the revision of the CNB. That's what I'm interested in. This is the MPs and the citizens. That's the audit you're not giving us. And what do we have about what the Bosniak Party report is negative? Here, tell us, what good do we as a society have to do with it? Absolutely nothing. So we're dealing with things here that aren't relevant. Here, Mr. Auditor, one more thing. You say their report is negative. And HDZ reports are always positive, and what, then, is the purpose of the revision? So what's the point of the review? The revision here is essentially just eye-snapping and a public circus, and central issues, so the work of the CNB and their policies, that's not being discussed here. Until when? You'll tell Mr. Pernar, you keep saying that, CNB, and what do I do? If you're constantly avoiding the subject, and you're running away from it, I have no choice but to talk about it all the time. I need to get you back to the important things. I need to get you back to important things on a continuous basis. Have you looked at the situation in the People's Newspaper? So to N.N. is a general disaster. They created a 78.9 million kuna loss last year, meaning nearly 79 million kuna. Who's going to answer for that, nobody. Why? So because all the institutions are actually networked and politically corrupt. So the State Audit is politically installed, politically installed judges, politically installed DORH. Here's when we talk about DORH, this is the important thing. Mr. Robert Jezic, a well-known tycoon and HDZ favorite, said he would return five million to the budget, we all know he did not return it, despite the court's order. If he does not respect the court's orders why he still has the status of a protected witness, why doesn't the DORH say Mr Jezic, you don't cooperate, you said you'll return Sanader's bribe to the budget, you didn't do it, if you don't do it we take the status of a protected witness, you will be prosecuted and you will be taken by force, all property will be blocked. The DORH doesn't do that. And I get the feeling that the biggest crime in the country is just going through it. Political parties that have millions of revenues and are being financed, Sanader explained how both Jadranka Kosor have neat audit reports. And now it turns out that in this entire one turret in this whole thing let's say to the legal pack, legal agony doesn't work out at all, the Bosniak party is now black sheep, the Bosniak party hasn't satisfied. And everyone else is satisfied. Now, ladies and gentlemen, that's the conclusion that we're being imposed on, and the question is whether this conclusion is a reflection of the real situation or whether we actually live in Croatia in a simulated reality, the reality shown to us by the media and the political elite, and in fact the reality is different. The reality is that Croatia is not a legal state, that all businesses are ruined and those who are not like the People's Newspapers are on their way to ruin. It's true that millions of highway loans have been made, that that money has been stolen, but of course when the indictment comes to court, the court says it's not a good charge. Then when the verdict against Sanader comes, it's nothing. Then comes the verdict against HDZ, says the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, but there's no mistake. And then who gets hurt, who gets found guilty? The Bosniak Democratic Party, they're guilty and what? Nothing, ate a donkey wolf and nothing to anyone. It's your level of functioning of the rule of law, it's at your level to arrest a police officer who's charged 200 kuna bribes, that's the range of our judiciary. Our judiciary is unable to deal with, say, a Dubrovnik police officer who has been proposed to them now as chief of police, who has a whole series of applications behind him. But he's politically protected, no one can do anything to him, he'll be the boss of everyone else who's better cops than him. Simply this Assembly is one play, a performance in which most people have the role of statisticians, and a small part of the actors, and only a small part really has the role of people's representatives, unfortunately only a small part. The stats aren't here today, you see. And why aren't they here? Because the stats only come when they vote. If they were gone, no one would notice, tomorrow they'd be swallowed up by the ground, but only if there was a vote would people say, "Listen, hands are missing," there's no. And there's a part of the people who are talking to us here we've been listening to Andrija Mikulić he's telling us here that in order to be a successful entrepreneur that they need some quality. So what quality did the HDZ gentlemen show? He gave us a doctor here, told us about how the HDZ election was won, so HDZ didn't know the moral winner or whatever. So did he forget how HDZ had concluded that majority. Well, he concluded most of it not based on election results but in one dirty way, in a dirty way. He simply found eight minorities who would raise their hands and for the black devil to tell them that they were involved with him in power. He collected most of them at the expense of five HNS or four migrants, I don't know what he would call them, defection and with the help of Misic and Sauche, and that is proof to him that HDZ is a good party because the people brought them to power. So it wasn't the people who brought them to power, but they were, with the help of bribery, actually because I don't see any other motives of the CNS to go with them to the coalition, they got the authorities. The same thing with Sauchos, they might have had more instruments, I don't know. But what I'm saying is, I'm trying to tell you that we're not dealing with anything important here in Parliament, that this car of the state goes down the ship, that simple cars, wheels no more brakes, that underneath us is the break-in we're still falling into ruin, and the important things we don't do. That's what I wanted to tell you. And I'd like the state auditor to say at least to the Croatian people, the MPs, I'd like you to let us go to the CNB, but I know he'll never say it because he doesn't dare say it. And don't you dare because he knows that about his HDZ or their majority, and if he were to say what they don't want to hear, he'd be gone from his place the next day. So this isn't a state, this is a circus where I've been given the role of a clown who has to tell the truth that everyone sees and no one wants to face it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49116	Thank you very much, colleague Pernar, for explaining to us that the political parties are the National Bank, the National Journal and the Police, but he has raised his hand for the violation of the Rules of Procedure the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49117	Mr. Vice President, I have an article 238, but it doesn't matter that much. So, I find it unacceptable for a representative in the Croatian Parliament to wear a shirt that offends a political party no matter how justified or unfounded it was in one way or another. If he wanted to express his protest against police actions because a young gentleman in Poreč cried out, and it was done to make it a violation, it certainly shouldn't be a pattern of conduct in the Croatian Parliament. So if you HDZ won't object to it, we want to object because we don't want to object that we haven't responded to it, and in particular we wouldn't allow it to be like that. to our party or to another party, he says, although we have received various insults verbally, but this is resolved by a reminder, therefore, I am here expressing a protest if they do not already have HDZ because it does not bother them, we do not mind that in this way one political party is characterized, even in these audits by political parties. That's how much I've had to notice. Anyway, if they did that to us, we'd take it out if you didn't warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49118	Let's get 22 million kuna back, I'll take my shirt off.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49119	Thank you very much, Comrade Bauk. Of course, I totally agree with you, but that would accomplish exactly what he wants me to do. I told her for myself that he was a clown so then a team would probably come up with more expressions than that. But here he is, wearing it for a few days, I guess the pay of a councilman is too small to take another shirt. But I think it's best if we don't mind that. The esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49120	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, the fact that someone has received a negative opinion, a conditional opinion, of course does not mean that someone has done everything in accordance with the law and that his business or activity should not be questioned. The state review isn't about the team, we get the same as the party because of some technical details conditional opinion, I take on this thanks to the audit, we'll try to fix it, maybe it just means that someone has better or worse accounting. We know that even in Dinam, they're often when the audits were, so they don't find any major irregularities because Dinamo has top accounting. So, in that sense, it's not a complexion, and you made it one more lie when you talked about the CNB, although it's not a topic, you were warned and the chairman, not only did HDZ refuse to audit the CNB. We had a situation, though, that HDZ was silent when it was being debated, we thought it would support it because it was a deal between HDZ and the Most, and the SDPs were fierce for the entry of the audit into the CNB. When the vote came, both of them refused and you have nothing to say to the gentleman because he doesn't decide. We here in the Croatian Parliament decide on this, and we have decided or decided that colleagues who voted so that the revision does not enter the CNB, which does not mean that this proposal will not come back before parliamentary deputies, I expect that the mistake made by colleagues from the SDP and colleagues from the HDZ, I do not see why the State Audit would not enter the CNB, that they have the opportunity to correct it, that it will be, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49121	The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49122	The Honorable counterpart of Grmoja, unfortunately, yes, and the SDP also refused the entry of the State Audit into the CNB, is not clear to me for what reasons unless HDZ and SDP are actually one party, or representatives of the same elite, which is always the elite, only the government with the help of other puppets in Croatian politics, justice, economy, etc. But what's important is to say, I'm surprised Mr. Bauk's in the way of my shirt. And you know why my shirt bothers him? Because it is becoming clear more and more from day to day to Croatian citizens, that the SDP is no opposition to HDZ but is leading the same policy, and this has become clear today when his colleague, the president of the party Bernardic, attacked the State Audit report during the time, it was later realized, when the SDP was in power. It means that man simply has no idea of anything, that he came here to convince by heart, and then it turned out to be talking nonsense and of course that he supports less citizens than he imitates me, of course your stranger's money rating and of course that you instead of attacking HDZ that isn't still 22 million kuna in the state budget that he pulled out of state-owned companies, you're attacking me because of the HDZ T-shirt thieves. So you're more upset with that shirt than you are with the sad truth. And the sad truth is that the state was stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49123	Thank you. The following will speak on behalf of the club of the representatives of the independent lists of representatives of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49124	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues here I am already in the replica because I had to react to this statement by my colleague Pernar in fact said what I was about to say. Of course, it is the task of the political parties of independent representatives to have those irregularities that exist, and which may also be the technical nature of the document, so we, as the Most Independent Lists, received this report for 2015 which we have, for technical reasons, conditional opinion. And then, of course, what my colleague Pernar was saying is there are some deeper things, but these things shouldn't be handled by the State Audit. Of course, he was also talking about donations, something his colleague, Sagar, said about how donations can affect the behaviour of elected representatives of the government. We had this situation because we had all kinds of gifts, donations and stuff. We have had problematic lending of political parties and these are things that are much more problematic than this negative opinion of the party he has been having problems with, that is to say, a colleague of Pernar or a conditional opinion on some technical details regarding the operations of the Most himself. But here's when we're talking about donations, I don't get to talk about it very often, but I don't know about one big donor of MOST in the media, so just to clarify the situation, and that's exactly what the 2015 report means when it happened in the media about Mr. Roglic as a donor of MOST. Mr. Roglic did not donate the MOST, but donated Mr. Drago Prgomet to the first election unit, now means HDZ representative. All MPs who entered the Croatian Parliament then on the basis of this donation or results in the first election unit later left the MOST, were representatives of the HRIDs and now two of those representatives are our colleague Irena and colleague Prgomet are now representatives of the HDZ. So Mr. Roglic could possibly be a donor of HRIDs or here's now a donor of HDZ, not a donor of MOST. Here is the biggest donation received by the Most, but MOST in the first constituency in which all the people who were on the list were the selection of Draga Prgomet and then members of HRIDs. The only one I was then fourteenth on the list as support, as some kind of connection between that initial MOST and the HRIDs that joined the Most. And this conditional opinion is about, so a colleague of Petrin we had an agreement with, which is no longer part of the Most. So in that sense, I thank you for these recommendations and for all that has been made. We will try to correct it, of course, but what I have already said in the replica, what my colleague Pernar is obviously insolent is that these technical details that may be the reason for them may be the art or incompetence of someone's accounting are no evidence that someone is corrupt, so of course that the Bosniak Party in that sense is not problematic but has some shortcomings. And someone who may have a positive opinion may be problematic, but that's not what this report was about. So in that sense, here I am thanking you, and I don't want to trouble you in any way. We take it into consideration and want, of course, everything that was not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49125	Thank you very much. You have one replica of Honorable Representative Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49126	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable colleague of the bush here to expand this subject, it's important enough. As far as donations are concerned, I say to political parties, I don't know how much that is, how much is possible in the audit report to determine that. But there's a series, let's say a tendency in certain counties where certain political options are in power, that individual entities are doing business in order to donate only that political option that is in power. They never donate any other political option. And you can see that from year to year. That's one level of trouble. And the second level of the problem is, of course, when political parties actually have entrepreneurs, they participate in public procurement where the investor was local self-government, whether state-owned or state-owned, or state-owned enterprises, and then donate on that basis to political parties. I think these are topics that are very serious, and until we can solve these issues until then, we will have problems and in the public, the very conduct of public procurement procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49127	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49128	Dearest colleague, Žagar, absolutely agrees, we had this situation in the Parliament when me and my colleague Bulj had a problem with the relationship between the PPD, the first gas company and HDZ, and then there in the hallway he met me and my colleague Bulja Vice President, Miljan Brkic, and he said what I have with Vujnovac and PPD. I only met him once around the HDZ gift. So here we see that, at all, understanding this problematic relationship between politicians and parliamentary deputies is not at a certain level that it should be at. And it definitely needs to be controlled more. And when we're talking and they ask me about the Agrokor Investigation Commission, I say that the Agrokor Investigation Commission is not here to investigate criminal responsibility. That's what the DORH will do, rather than investigate which institutions have failed. And in this regard, the HDZ or SDP donations by Agrokor are certainly interesting, and that is what needs to be checked. That all institutions in Croatia allowed Agrokor to grow to these scales and thus affect the Croatian economy. We can also get into a situation, and that is what I do not want to allow some energy company to influence means because of certain links in an inappropriate way in the Croatian economy and the decisions made by the executive authority. And these are real problems, and what I'm talking about, these conditional opinions, technical details we need to take into account, correct and not repeat such mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49129	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Josip Boris will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49130	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here is to say, on behalf of the HDZ Club, our opinion on the financial audit of political parties carried out. We have heard many comments today on the audit reports concerning many authorities of the state administration, companies for the period 2013-2015. This report refers to 2015 when we talk about the revision of political parties and the fact that the State Audit Office has become an institution that is believed to have regained public trust and politicians. And that indeed every report from year to year passes almost unanimously with normal remarks which unfortunately are not here right now, and a very interesting topic, and they have gone clearly aware that they too have certain gaps in their work, as a party as politicians, that they have done something wrong, so they are reluctant to listen to a few criticisms, although they are very happy to give someone else the same criticism. I think every intention of the State Audit Office is going in the direction of good suggestion, recommendations and should not be experienced fatally, as certain situations have been experienced today, because the State Audit suggests clearly what needs to be fixed. From year to year and always looks back at what she's already said and written, so let's look at it one more time and say what we've done and what we haven't done, so continue, if we haven't done it. I think that in 2015 what was made is also valid for 2016 and 2017 because here I have one title a year ago from a list where they are clearly screaming, here's a sentence like this, convincing me take, a satisfied man works better. And all because I saw the yellow envelopes coming into the headquarters of the Living Wall from the donor money that's not on the official list. So there's a problem that we have donors that aren't on the list in some party, that there's some money in one campaign that was for parliamentary elections, and we all see it as something normal, and then it says, when we have to say it or accept it as a criticism, which maybe tomorrow, in some new review, we don't have the strength to be here, but we do our five minutes and we disappear. What is this report doing? Financial audit, 38 political parties, 6 independent representatives and 2 members of local unit representative bodies cover financial reports and operations for 2015. In addition, the financial reports, 49 outside parliamentary political parties and 49 members of the representative bodies of local units who have not submitted financial reports within the prescribed time limit have been made known. The audit identified failures and irregularities in the field of planning and accounting business in the largest number of political parties. The provisions of Article 2 of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion are cited and, of course, all positions within which can be wrong when it comes to financing the political life itself, i.e. political parties. What is joyful is that independent representatives have not identified irregularities and failures that would affect the truthfulness and reality of financial reports, and the regularity of financial business. But as with political parties, it has been found that those with a certain minus, as did political parties, not all of them, but when seen collectively at the level of the year, are almost all of them minus. In this report, in particular, one accent is placed on one representative within the units of local self-government, who donated an amount of 400,000 kuna to one political party and could not donate that much, as we know that it is legally possible to donate a maximum of 30000 kuna. So he donated 370,000 more than prescribed. For all such irregularities and failures in the business of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of local self-government units, the office gave orders and recommendations. Which says the review report in the details. In 2015, the revenues of the political parties covered by the audit amounted to 155 million 366 thousand and 141 kuna, spending 157 million 364 thousand and 108 kuna. This lack of income at the end of 2015 totalled a million 997 thousand kuna. 16 political parties showed higher revenue over expenditures of 3 million 715 thousand kuna, and 22 political parties showed a deficit of 5 million and 713 thousand kuna. 16 unconditional, 21 conditional and 1 unfavourable opinions for the Bosniak Democratic Party of Croatia were drawn up on the financial reports and business of political parties for 2015. An audit of independent deputies has not identified irregularities and failed as I have already said. The audit also covered entities that made revenues of more than 100000 kuna in 2015, i.e. 18 parliamentary and 20 outside parliamentary political parties, 6 independent MPs and 2 members of local self-government units. The Office carried out a verification of the delivery of annual financial reports for 163 political parties which were obliged to submit financial reports for 2015 and 6 independent representatives and 920 members of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government to which the mandate was still under way. The audit procedures were carried out in the period from 6 June to 13 December 2016. In the Republic of Croatia, 160 political parties acted on 9 December 2016, 21 parliamentary and 139 outside parliament. Given that 22 political parties were established and registered in the Register of Political Parties in 2016, and 25 outside of parliamentary political parties ceased to act in 2015 and 2016 with components they were obliged to deliver 163 political parties of 20 as I said parliamentary and 143 outside parliament. When we talk about members of the representative bodies of local self-government units in local units on 11 November 2016, 920 members of representative bodies were active, whose mandate began after the local elections held in 2013 or early elections held in 2014 and 2015. The members of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government were obliged to submit financial reports to the office in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion. For the members of the representative bodies, it has been established that 895 of them have been submitted within the prescribed deadline of the financial report and 25 of the members of the representative bodies have not submitted the financial reports by December 2016. When we talk about the value of the assets of political parties, at the end of 2015 the balance sheet shows that the total assets are financial and not financial amounting to HRK 92 million while total liabilities and own resources are 92 million and 23 thousand kuna. The off-balance sheet records are presented in the amount of 2 million 451 thousand, and refers to the recorded value of the building owned by the political party for which the recording procedure is conducted in the land registers. What does the audit report say? The implementation of the tasks and recommendations of the previous audit has been checked whether the political party or several of them has acted according to orders and recommendations. Failures and irregularities were identified in 16 political parties for which 159 orders and recommendations were given in the previous audit. What we've been saying all day is that what we've been saying is that what we've been saying is that what we've been saying about 69 or only 44% of the warrant is that 19 is in the execution process, and 71 of the political party's orders have not been followed. So they're still ignoring the audit results and still acting the way they think it's best for them. When we talk about accounting business, the audit of the accounting business of political parties covers financial reports, accounts and records of business events, the list of assets and liabilities, claims and obligations and the publication of data. The audit found that certain political parties (a) HSS, (b)... HCHSP, HSP-AS, HSS, HRAST, Forward Croatia, Labour and Solidarity Party and the Living Wall did not draw up basic financial reports in a regulated manner, i.e. that the data presented in the financial reports are not accurate and true and that they are not identical with the data recorded in the accounts. What does the audit say next? Some incomes and expenditures are not recorded in business books or shown in financial reports, again similar parties HRAST, Most, Labour and Solidarity Party, Living Wall. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The law on financial operations and accounting of non-profit organisations shall be based on credible, true, orderly and previously controlled accounting documents. In addition, certain political parties did not keep records of the use of official vehicles, did not issue travel orders related to official travel, or did not include reports from the official route of a given route, and certain composite travel orders do not contain listed elements. The audit found that certain political parties failed to carry out a list of assets and liabilities in accordance with the regulations or censuses did not cover the entire assets. And it would be given to list really for each party and more of them in each segment, all fail as required by the revision and as prescribed by the law. Eight joint lists involving 45 political parties took part in the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament in 2015. Special accounts for the financing of the election promotion opened eight political parties under a mutual agreement and there is a problem. means those who went out in a mutual agreement or coalition to the elections opened an account within which it was unclear how the issue of income and expenditure within the campaign itself will be realised. As far as the party participates in the revenue, i.e. to the extent that the party participates in the costs of performing the service, above all, the promotion and any other costs that may be found in the campaign itself. And what I'm saying again may be most visible from this part as far as local self-government units are concerned, and we're talking about independent representatives whose incomes have been passed by 100 thousand kunas is the fact that a member of the Rovinj City Council has paid that one amount that 370,000 kunas greater than allowed to be paid to his party by 400 thousand, and he shouldn't have. And in the end, we can only realize that because it's statistics on one total number. the total amount, we can determine that the total assets are financial, not financial political parties in 2015, amounting to 92 million kuna, that total liabilities and also at that level, that the most income from memberships has HDZ, from the state budget then had SDP, because the most still at that time the local self-government representatives had the most income and from foreign donations, almost two-thirds have the HDZ and SDP parties together. So the simple law is respected in most parts although we often dispute the work of large parties and HDZ and SDP, but unconditional opinions by many parties show that we have learned what we should do every one in our part and I think that many of the debates that have been held here today clearly show that it is not a problem to tell someone that something is wrong or wrong, but sometimes we need to look at it in our own actions and determine whether you were wrong, whether you were at the height of the task, and then you can judge or say whether it's just like you said. The HDZ Club will support this review report by political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49131	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Boric, you can see that you have a studio approach to this matter and that you are familiar with all the details of the report or the revision of political parties, but one thing that I am interested in, and you may know because you are dealing with it, and we see that some young representatives here in the Croatian Parliament are also affected and revolted, their clothes show certain things, so here's colleague Pernar with his clothes some things that bother him from the past, and I'm wondering whether, to get away from us more than that, not to be burdened with it, do you know when HDZ will honor the decision of Croatian courts and return 24.2 million kuna to the state budget that was stolen during the Fine Media? So that's what would certainly, here I am sure here, has taken a lot of weight off the financing of political parties and people would see that you're in HDZ learning some things from the past. And then we wouldn't have any more scenes like this, because I and even a little bit understand the revolt of a young representative of Pernar who has been trying to point out that another injustice that has been going on for more than 10 years. It means when this money will be returned to the state budget in 2007 in order to no longer be burdened with the history of financing non-transparent political parties in this case, at a large amount of 24.2 million kuna collected by HDZ from public companies and everything we have witnessed over the past years. So that's something that, I think, still needs to be resolved, I believe you have information when HDZ thinks about returning that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49133	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49134	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, this was the 2015 review report and I was talking about it, if you noticed I don't do politics anymore the way I did it while I was in the opposition, so I'm trying to be constructive, talk on the basis of facts, arguments, and I know that it's all once effective, but it doesn't bring or contribute to anything. You've had enough problems in the SDP and you've recently obviously taken some credit without having any idea whether or not you've even taken it, so it's going to be the subject of some other audits that we're still going to discuss in the next periods without entering the business of the institutions. When institutions say their own, believe that we will behave the way the rules of conduct require, as is required by respect for the law and by a serious party. But until then, don't be a judge like some other MPs here because it's a parliamentary representative that doesn't even need to be. and that you are sinless, about that then. But you have your own problems and you keep this president safe because he's obviously not well there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49135	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49136	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Boris, colleagues and colleagues. Col. Boric, you said in your presentation that support should be given, and we at HSS support the findings of the audit and that they are restoring citizens' confidence in state institutions by their findings and their activities, that the State Audit is one of such institutions. I would like to join your thinking, but I would also suggest to you, given that you are in power now, that other institutions too look up to their example and do their job equally for everyone, that each citizen be equal before the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and that this institution would be more successful, I suggest because I hear from the field that both people and equipment and quality space are missing and that you increase their salaries and that they be even more successful and independent and that the legal practice in their findings is identical from the municipality to the municipality, from the political party to the political party, to have uniform criteria. And why am I pointing that out? Because last year, I discussed and said in this report that, of course, the HSS has its mistakes and respects the findings of the review, it will try to remove these irregularities, but that there are a number of those who have not removed the irregularities in order to be good for us to know who they are and what has taken them to do so again in the future. As two or three audited commissioners have now obtained unfavourable findings because they accidentally spent budget money not recording all the transactions, which is part of the cash from the cash register, it is known from which policy options, I hope that we will get information in which way they were processed and that it will not go as we asked for a report as much as when inspections were in Agrokor and companies in the Agrokora system, why 5, 6 or 10 years in some of their companies were not and that the government had just reacted after finding a global one organization that financial reports were faked. This is how we do not restore trust in Croatia's legal system and we must all act equally to all companies and people and parties to the same extent and action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49137	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49138	Well, my colleague Vlaovic, here I agree, and I sign a great deal of your replica, and I also believe that the State Audit really is a colleague of Klešić and their associates are simply doing their job properly, properly, and independently. I believe that they are independent and other bodies, we will discuss their reports, we will also have opportunities about the DORH report for 2015 and 2016, so everyone will say what is bothering them, what is at their heart, but again let's avoid the part about us judging here, that we determine where we should be, that we are those who speak only as those who are telling the truth, that we are the ones who are the smartest and that we all know everything, I mean it certainly isn't, and these reports clearly show that the system has problems and that those who want to, can remove it if they want to listen to recommendations and suggestions, if not, repeat themselves again, the same problems but I say there are those who want to learn and to learn, and there are those who want to be who know everything and that they don't need to be added or to say anything on the sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49139	Thank you. It will follow on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party Representatives Club. I'm sorry, I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49140	No, I answered the line for sure....
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49141	Well, if it is, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49142	Dear fellow Boric, when you talk about not having to call anyone without them being established or until the facts are established, you have shown articles concerning the Living Wall and about donations that cannot be subject to the State Audit because they were donations that were coming, and they are nowhere to be seduced, who knows what they were spending if that was the case. So don't blame your colleague Pernar when he's talking about other donations and questioning means this report because these reports can't deal with the meaning of certain political parties can't deal with what was carried out in bags, they can't deal with the money that came from where and the money that is not known what he's been spent on. It's not in the financial reports, and it's a real problem, but unfortunately, it can't possibly determine. I have a situation where your coalition partner in Metkovic bought olives from the city budget and shared them in his parliamentary campaign, a campaign for parliamentary elections. The Croatian judiciary has also confirmed the indictment, the trial has not yet begun. Four years it's been going on and on, four years it's going on, and I don't know what the problem is. There are photographs where man shares it on the Split Riviera, shares these olives he bought from the city budget. So it can't be learned that he went to encourage the development of olive industry in the town of Metkovic as mayor of the city, if he shares it on the Split coast. So you can't take it out. That's the problem with this country's institutions, but that's not a question for the State's audit, and you're accusing others, and you came up with a newspaper article and you're saying that the Living Wall allegedly received these donations in envelopes, that it's a problem, you call it a colleague of Pernar and the Living Wall, you're saying he's gone. and we know that similar situations had HDZ. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49143	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49144	You didn't listen well. So I said this report for 2015 and that it might be worth the same for 2017. And then I read about 2016. And then I read an article in the paper a year ago, where that man from the Living Wall turned into a MOST witness about what was going on at some time, in some parliamentary election campaign and how it worked. And then I said maybe one part of it will be found in the financial reports that will be made by the State Audit Office for 2016, and maybe they won't find anything. And to the perfection of the Most, I will not touch. You're really perfect, but it didn't help you in Metkovic to survive. Here we have Metkovic and don't be angry, this city will go without you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49145	Thank you. The following will be spoken by the esteemed representative, Rezimir Varda, on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49146	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected chief state auditors with associates, Mr Klesic. I will try very little on behalf of the club to repeat what you said in your report, or report, about political parties. What actually makes me listen to the whole day's debate about your reports specifically leads me to say the following. Of the 18 parliamentary political parties, 8 political parties received a conditional opinion somewhere around, worth around 9 million kunas of revenue from the budget of units, local units and about 2 million and something from the state budget if I am a good mathematician. But let's ignore the numbers. Here's the problem of repeating your conditional opinion. I read from your report that some political parties in the previous year, that means in 2014 because this is the 2015 report they received even unconditional opinion. Let's say the Autohton Croatian peasant party was getting unfavourable and it remains unfavourable. But I am concerned about the repetition of parliamentary political parties, which is why they receive funds from the state budget or receive funds from the budget of the local administration units. The conditional opinions are repeated year after year. Now I'm actually coming to the right topic. That topic he actually opened in your reports by your colleague Schuker, and part of my colleague Stazic. If we discuss each of the parties individually or each individual case of those trees, we don't actually see trees from that forest. And then the State Audit is asked for what is not within the law of jurisdiction. So, the State Audit detects the problem, the State Audit only has certain tools. What tools are these? Tool to send its report to the executive authority, tool to send its report to the Croatian Assembly, tool to give a recommendation or order for minor injuries. Let's say that in the disciplinary procedure of workers, it is easier to breach the labour obligation and that the order, or recommendation, should improve the business of the financial party. Still, he has the sole authority to provide the State's Attorney's office with all the documents with suspicion of a possible criminal offence. And that's where her jurisdiction ends. What Mr. Shuker was saying and Mr. Stazic, which is the purpose of the report and the debate in the government and the Parliament, what is this purpose? To argue, to judge or to have solutions today, to give us certain things, where the State Audit indicates that the problem in legal solutions or in sublaws is a problem. And that they lead to exactly that kind of situation. Where, for example, big parties get unconditional opinions because they have financial resources, they have experts, accountants, accountants, etc. some smaller parties, but beneficiaries of the budget, state and local, if from year to year unconditional opinion, conditional opinion, so why don't we change the Law on the financing of political parties. Why don't we change that? One time wrapped recommendation, a warrant. Second time on parole, we cut his income, third time on parole, we take him out of the budget. Let's go to those who do their job as we belong or secure resources for the work of the State Audit. And I'm sorry, it's one of the springs. You don't have enough space, you don't have enough human resources, you don't have people. I know, as an audit participant, so there was a review coming to me, in the state administration. I know what a tough job this is. And I know that the State Audit, I've known some auditors since then, who really well-intentionedly point to the problem, give a recommendation and give a warrant, if there's nothing left. But you need to secure your terms. Here, for example. As regards the financing of the political party's election promotion, the State Audit Office said, the office estimated that regulations were necessary, so regulations to regulate the essential elements of mutual agreements between political parties, what does that mean? Well, it's actually a warrant, so I would put it in quotes to the Croatian Parliament, to change the law. To the government to postpone the amendments and supplement the law. And then there's the end. Otherwise we will not come, we will have a situation like this all the time, and constant bickering and constantly bringing the Croatian Parliament into the role of the judge. And we're not a court. We are the legislative authority. And there's the problem. Now let me tell you in the end, as a participant of once the State Audit, which came to me, when the government passed, the report, will be easy. When the Parliament passes, it's over. Get the report in the drawer. We're done, there's no changes to the law, no changes in sublegal acts, all satisfied, unless an investigative commission is established. And then it's a little different and that's it. In addition, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament's report 2015 shows the attitude of the legislative authority towards a very important Croatian state institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49147	Thank you. On behalf of the GLAS Club, the next one will also be addressed by distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Clesic with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of GLAS, I can say that we will support the review report on the financing of political parties. And this whole report revolves around the financial affairs of political parties. And what I can say, given that I already speak once and for five times on behalf of the former party and now the new party, related to the financing of political parties and the opinion of the review. I think it can be realized that we have made some shifts in the right direction, i.e. that political parties have begun to respect the remarks, the instructions, the suggestions of the State Audit and that here they have finally learned or adapted their business to the law. And that it is increasingly less and less noticeable, that all those remarks that are going in some direction to advance the whole system, and that part of which is referred to as recommendations regarding new laws, i.e. amendments and additions to laws that could improve this part, part of the work of political parties. And otherwise, when you look at all those reports back a few years back, more or less the comments are similar. And I think only those parties that haven't arrived yet to adapt, and we see that less and less of these conditionalally said larger political parties that are getting conditional opinions. So I think in that kind of technical formal sense, I think we can be satisfied. But I wanted to talk here about something else, which is how political parties are at all acting and what state audits would say if more could be spoken by law on the basis of behavior, i.e., model or non-model behaviour of the party and the messages that political parties send to the public by their behaviour, whether individuals or decisions they make within their bodies. What has ensnared my eye to mention in one part certain acts of parties, which are long-term, with the meaning of programming and all other parties, is one act which is recommended to the parties to bring, and which do not have all political parties and not even all parliamentary parties, that is the Ethics Code. I think that in Croatia, we will find it difficult to change the opinion of our citizens on political parties no matter how many laws and checks and all recommendations of the State Audition respect them, formally looking at them satisfied if there is still a doubt and this is entirely justified doubts of our citizens and the perceptions of our citizens that politicians and political parties are not acting in a way that is moral or that could meet certain moral standards. And I am deeply convinced that until the political parties democratisation themselves, until they regulate each other's relations in Croatia, until we stop idolatry for party leaders until we open the parties to the public, until we become transparent in every part of our political work, we will be called state audits, it will be bade to formulate the laws that we will have to adhere to, and we will probably stick to them, but in our old custom we will find all the small and large holes in order to play them, first of all, to play political elites within these political parties. I think we need to open a topic that is extremely important, I would say about Croatia, which is how we will restore citizens' confidence in politics, above all in politics, and in politics through people, or through politicians, or through the fundamental organisations in which they are organised, these are political parties. And I think we've come through all these 27 years of democracy at one point that we in GLAS are personally very concerned about. In social and political life, we have experienced some retrograde situations that bring us back to the times in which we were long ago thought to be behind us, the additional mistrust of citizens towards all of us is deepening and will not help us any law if within ourselves, every political party for itself, and especially parliamentary parties represented in the Croatian Parliament do not face these problems and say quite clearly. The evaluation of this House's work is something above the limit. Well, it's not just because, financially, some of these parties may be doing some financial offenses, less or less, as we see most of them actually don't do any more financial offenses at all, but the question is how are we going to fix this two to some little better grade and our opinion is the only one that we can do it ourselves. However, not in a way to generalise and not in a way to talk to each other as a party as we speak. And I respect everyone's opinion, I'm a liberal by belief, and I'm very open to a different way of expressing my views than how my colleague Pernar does, and to some disputes which, or some oppositions that are not very pleasant to the ears, and I believe that most of our citizens don't like to hear it. But what bothers me the most is generalization, but also silence. So I am quite convinced that most HDZ MPs sitting in benches today in the Assembly are not some way ashamed of everything that has happened in history, especially regarding the financial business of the HDZ, that they are uncomfortable. And I don't think most of those people even knew what was going on. And I wouldn't stand up here and say that all the people who are in HDZ are thieves, but some were, most likely, something has already been proven. But the moment someone is found to be a thief, it means someone stole, that someone cheated, that someone offended, that someone was a violent political party must have their own mechanisms to exclude such people from public space, otherwise we're not writing well. Political stores, cheating voters, that's something that's inadmissible. I don't want to get laid here, I'm not in the mood to salt anyone's brains, but I think we're all somewhere deep aware and that somewhere in the background of what my colleague Pernar is saying,...all of what he's saying, we all think somewhere intimately that in some things he's right, most of us, I hope so, that most of ours unfortunately thinks that our colleague Pernar is right. And we have to change that. And I would once again thank the State Review, first of all, for the expertise, secondly, of impartiality, I personally became convinced of it as the head of local self-government of quality work and of all that they do in terms of the improvement of the entire system because the results of all this are nevertheless. Of course, we are not satisfied, nor are you, of course, satisfied because you would like to have as many unconditional opinions as possible, but the shifts have been made, and in that sense we should welcome it and stick to the law above all else, we should stick to the rules. But I personally, but in GLAS, we think that it is not the main and key problem whether political parties and the blind law on the financing of political parties in order to restore the credibility of politics rather than whether they stick to what politics is, whether they are right, left, centrist, liberal, to stick to ideas and to be consistent in politics and credible with their voters and citizens. Until we all do it together, I'm afraid even the unconditional revision of the state and political parties will not help this society take a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49149	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49150	Report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government elected from the list of groups of voters for 2015. The applicant is the State Audit Office, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of representatives of units of local and regional (regional) self-government selected from the list of groups of voters for 2015 is hereby adopted. Please vote. I find it unanimous, with 122 votes to conclude it is in line with the proposal of the Assembly home labor body.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49151	We now move to the following point: - Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2016 Reporter is the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Chief State Auditor Mr Ivan Klešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected MPs and MPs, here's a few of us left, but here's the deal. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Audit, a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2016 was submitted to the Croatian Assembly. The tasks of the audit office, the entities and the subject-matter of the audit shall be determined by the annual programme and the work plan. The 2016 work programme and the Work Plan covered all entities for which the provisions of the Law of the State Office for Audit and the Law on the financing of political activity and election promotion, are prescribed to carry out the audit each year, which are annual reports on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and political parties, independent representatives of members of representative local units. In addition to these audits under the law of established criteria, audits of the budgetary and extra-financial beneficiaries of the state budget, the budget of local units, higher schools and other entities and the performance audits we have discussed today have been planned. Then the management of mineral raw materials, in the area of the Republic of Croatia from 2013 to 2015, the purchase and use of so-called official vehicles, the budgetary users of the state budget, the implementation of measures identified by the development strategy, tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020, the work of the supervisory boards of commercial companies owned by local units, the public procurement system in companies, and the management and availability of the properties of local units. In addition, a review of the implementation of the recommendations made in past performance audits has been carried out, the achievement of results and the achievement of the objectives of the business of companies owned by local units and the insight into financial reports outside parliamentary political positions and members of the representative bodies of local units. All reports of the audits carried out have been submitted to the Croatian Assembly, and according to the provisions of the Law on the right to access information, are also published on the website of our office. So during 2016, we carried out 295 audits, of which 210 financial and 85 efficiency audits. Under 210 financial audits, it covers the state budget and its 28 users, 64 local units budgets, 68 higher universities, then 3 other entities, 38 political parties, 6 independent representatives and 2 members of local unit representative bodies. In 98 or 46.7% of financial audits, an unconditional opinion was expressed with 111 or 52.8% conditional and one unfavourable opinion. The annual report on the implementation of the state budget for 2015 expressed a conditional opinion, while financial reports and the business of state budget beneficiaries expressed 13 unconditional and 15 conditional opinions. In the budget audits of local units, 27 unconditional and 37 conditional opinions have been expressed. The audit of the irregularities identified concerns budget planning and implementation, accounting operations and financial reporting of income and claims, expenditure and obligations, asset management and public procurement. Furthermore, over the past year we covered 68 higher schools, 2 users of the budget of local units and one non-profit organisation. Their financial reports and business reports are expressed in 35 unconditional and 36 conditional opinions. And let me remind you, over the last year, the Parliament has discussed and accepted a report on the financial audit of high schools. As I have already pointed out, the office carried out 85 performance audits covering 732 entities during this reporting period. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs, as well as in previous years and during 2016, the office worked together before, in progress and after an audit with the judicial and other state bodies. Documents and reports have been exchanged for 69 cases with the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Interior and the courts. For the purpose of carrying out the audit, the office also cooperated with the DIP. The international cooperation carried out by the office through the exchange of views and experiences is also important with the aim of equating the methodology of work and monitoring modern directions for the development of the audit profession in the world. I would particularly like to point out with the European Court of Auditors and the Supreme Audit Institutions of European countries with a long tradition and great experience. In order to carry out all of the office's tasks, which is the central office in Zagreb and 20 district offices in the county centres, 343 jobs have been systemised, and in September 2017 we have 279 jobs filled, of which 226 authorised state auditors. From that number, therefore, 226 auditors carry out audit operations. Finally, what I would like to point out is that, in order to ensure the legitimate and meaningful use of budgetary resources as well as the efficient and effective functioning of the internal control system, the National Reform Programme and the Convergence Programme adopted at the beginning of this year are planned to ensure stricter implementation of State Audit Recommendations in the context of strengthening the capacity of the State Audit Office. This is what I have already mentioned, I answered one question and this is the adoption of a new Law on the State Audit Office, which is the deadline of September 2017. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49153	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49154	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. State Auditor, I am delighted with this crowded assembly room. In one material that may be one of the best that doesn't allow anyone to be a personal judge, prosecutor, lawyer, or anything we've had today in this House of Commons. This is an opportunity, this material to cross the spear and to those who have something to say to say. To say on the basis of the facts and on the basis of the data presented by the state budget users and audited by the State Audit. But the easiest thing to do is to come to this High House, make a show of 10, 15, 20 minutes, get a minute, two on information shows and be a star. And does anyone really care what happens to taxpayers' money, if this report is real material, but it's hard to sit down and look at a few hundred pages of material, because it's very hard to get along in some of the findings because it's something to know and then come to debate about it. So, I simply had to tell Mr. Chief State Auditor after your opening report, because as a parliamentary representative, I am ashamed in front of your people who spent dozens of hours to make this material, that practically no one shows the will, to at least say good or bad about that material. And that's the best proof of how we treat state institutions. But when it happens, God forbid something bad, then we're all chasing, we're attacking, it's not good, it's not good. This is an opportunity to discuss good and bad things. And that's why, on my personal behalf, I hope most of the MPs apologize to the people who have spent tens and dozens of hours working to prepare this material for us, and we're not even ready to listen to it in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49155	Thank you very much, fellow Shuker. Yeah, it's sad that there's 9 of us in the hall, and then those who aren't here, of course, probably tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and the next day when the cameras will be pointed at everyone in the morning, they'll talk so passionately about many things that stand or don't stand. And now that they have opportunities, I guess they're dealing with far more important things and more important things. But in any case, I am opening a debate and the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, will address the few listeners, respected Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49156	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Although, I believe that there is something wise to say in this late hour, a few MPs and MPs. I won't be long, I won't repeat all that the State Auditor has pointed out and what is really the essence of this report, and these are all the audits that have been carried out. I'd say that on the trail of Mr. Shucker's last replica. Hours and hours have been spent to prepare such reports for the Croatian Parliament. The truth is you're not in the report, you're listed now, you've read how many employees there are. You didn't specify how many hours it was actually hours of work. I think it is, you're actually poorly teamed up against the work you're doing. What's very good, I was the head of local self-government myself, I'm very glad when your representatives came despite the fear we all have when you come. But those recommendations you've made are always good, useful, and can really be applied. I'm glad the same, despite you well said that the key thing is a law that will give you greater authority. However, according to this report, 2/3 of the audits carried out have accepted the recommendations of the auditors as far as I understand from this. So it's only in 1/3 that they're not accepted. True, 1/3 is a large number, however there is a shift. What we're in this debate here today is somehow my conclusion, the biggest problem is where there's a lot of money. Now there's a problem if, when we talk about a percentage, I don't know a third, two-thirds, or when we're talking about four companies today that, four companies that got an inefficient opinion, actually their public procurement was ineffective. The problem is it's big money, especially in these two societies. So your work is extremely good despite having a smaller number of employees. Maybe you can say in the final address, or if there's a chance what the average salary is, because I see here are all people who are highly qualified, who must really have a lot of knowledge. Well, somehow, when we see according to this money that's supposed to pay and by the number of jobs, it seems to me that these salaries aren't that big, and it's really about responsible work and serious work. Here's the end of what to say. Of course the MOST Club will also accept this report, and I hope that here we will no longer know what day comes for the review law debate, I hope that we will succeed in giving more power, so your reports fall, too, to express myself on fertile soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49157	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the next one will speak with distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49158	Thank you very much, Vice President. A respected chief state auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the 2016 State Audit Office report will support the HDZ Club. We see that it is a well-designed and transparent report behind which is extremely good quality work, assessed by the very high rating of users of these reports for usefulness and quality. Since there have been commendations from all sides, but there have been objections from some MPs, i.e., asked how many applications were filed, how many criminal charges and so on, I would once again underline there. The State Audit Office shall be an independent and independent body operating under strict criteria prescribed by law. The aim of the revision is to find professional attention to procedural errors that are not in accordance with the law and to inform the DORH accordingly. The State Audit Office shall not be tasked with submitting criminal applications but shall report these reports to this Assembly and the DORH for the purpose of reviewing according to their annual plan. I wanted to point this out once again, essentially join the regrets of all colleagues regardless of which side they come from, and today they eat in this assembly. These reports serve us as a guideline. This is what we should think about when we adopt or propose amendments or legislative proposals, whether it comes to the Public Procurement Act, the Law on the financing of political parties, the Law on Commercial Society. This should be a template for proposing regulations, decisions and the like in ministries, different bodies, because there's really a lot to be read and a lot to learn from this. The State Audit Office of 2016 carried out 2010 financial audits and 85 efficiency audits. The financial audit shall verify whether the financial information of the entities is demonstrated in accordance with the applicable legal framework for financial reporting, while the performance review shall be assessed whether the project is being implemented by the programme or by the activity of the entity in accordance with the principles of economic, efficiency and purpose. On the other hand, the objective is to answer key audit questions and make recommendations for improvement. For the first time in 2016, we have a report on the effectiveness of the European programme initiative JASPERS on the submitted project proposals by the Republic of Croatia for co-financing from EU funds and we have seen this as a special point of discussion so far. It should also be pointed out that some of the State Audit recommendations in the 2016 report have been respected, so for the first time data has been provided which have not been published before, thereby contributing to the transparency of the report. This shows expenditure on sources of financing, or e.g. The annual report shall contain information on the outstanding obligations of the user. The audit has made a number of recommendations to improve the normative frameworks for the state budget and to standardise procedures for all users, otherwise there is irrational spending. The Office covered all entities for which the provisions of the Law on the State Office for Audit and the Law on the financing of the political activity of the electoral promotion are laid down each year by the 2016 work programme and work plan. In addition to these audits, financial audits have been planned both by the budgetary and extra-financial beneficiaries of the state budget, the budget, local units, higher schools and other entities, and efficiency audits. We have already discussed the management of mineral raw materials in the area of the Republic of Croatia since 2013-2015 and the acquisition and use of official vehicles for the budgetary users of the state budget. There was also an assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation of measures identified by the strategy for development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020, the work of the supervisory boards of companies owned by local units, as well as public procurement systems in companies. And we are about that as special points, and about the management and availability of properties of local units. The Office planned to carry out a specific verification of the recommendations made in previous audits, effectiveness, achievement of the results and achievement of the business objectives of the local units and to make insights into financial reports, outside parliamentary political parties and members of local unit representative bodies. When we talk about financial audits, there were 210 financial audits during this reporting period, and they showed and received 98 unconditional ones, including 111 conditional and only 1 unfavourable opinions, but the main state auditor already spoke about it. The annual report on the implementation of the state budget for 2015 and the financial audits of 27 budgetary and 1 non-financial beneficiaries was also audited during this reporting period. This raises the conditional opinion, when it comes to the annual report on the state budget, and on the financial reports and business of users there are 13 unconditional and 15 conditional opinions. I repeat that number so you can compare it to the previous year. It should be remembered that in the 2015 report, we had only 4 unconditional opinions and 13 conditional opinions. So from 4 now we have 13. Still, there is a significant shift, although we must not and cannot be content with it. This Decision shall The State Office for State Property Management has received an unfavourable opinion. Here's another reason why it was good to form a special ministry that was about to deal with this problem. When we talk about a condition of opinion expressed for different institutions, we have to talk and I kind of look at them depending on what reason that conditional opinion is given. So if we're talking to you, for example. no records of signed contracts and contractual obligations or records exist, but they do not have a centralised or information system that supports such one unification would not put as much burden on him as it does on some other shortcomings that led to that opinion. Local units here during this reporting period were covered by financial reports and operations of 64 local units and therefore received 27 unconditional and 37 conditional opinions. Compared to the earlier year when 18 unconditionals were obtained, all of them were one city and 17 municipalities were also a significant shift. Some local units, for example. They have not adopted a development programme plan, and some have not adopted changes to the plan, although changes in the budget have changed the amount of funding planned for investments from the development plans. As the longtime head of the local self-government unit, I can say that cities and municipalities, especially now at this time when the grants of European funds can be prepared with multiple projects, and of course they cannot provide from their own original resources the means to build more of such projects, and then depending on what happens to the competition, they will go further into realisation, so it may be difficult to predict for a particular project of time building, the means from which it will be realised or inflated, and their development programmes, and to list millions of kuna that we expect from European funds or ministries. When it comes to higher schools, the office carried out a financial audit of 68 higher schools. Financial reports and business reports are presented with 34 unconditional and 34 conditional opinions. For example. there it was interesting to see that in certain areas of business different treatment indicates insufficient normative arrangement. So here's another task for us and for the executive to think a little bit about how to, for example. The same jobs of certain higher universities are signed and concluded by some, and there are contracts in the authorial work for the same type of business. Of course, it requires and there is a lot of funding to be spent on these contracts, tax and other obligations to the state are different, and it would be good if it were more precisely arranged so that there would be no different treatment. When it comes to other audit entities, we also heard, we had two users of the budget of local units, the Institute of Emergency Medicine of Ličko-Senj County and the Institute of Emergency Medicine of Virovitica-Podravska County and the non-profit organisation of the County port administration from Rab. We have heard a lot about political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies. When it comes to efficiency audits, we had 85 audits, about the management of mineral raw materials and the acquisition of the use of official vehicles we also talked about. Now, with regard to the implementation of the measures set out in the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020, it is necessary to say that the Ministry of Tourism, HTZ and the Inter-ministrian Council for Tourism are covered. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Tourism has brought and proposed one such strategy, an independent department for the implementation and monitoring of the Tourism Development Strategy has not yet been established, and the Ministry established an Interminist Professional Council which unfortunately did not meet from December 2013 to September 2015. The work of the supervisory boards of companies and the public procurement system has also been talked a lot. When we talk about the management and availability of the properties of local units, it should be said that the audit covered all units of local self-government, under real estate is considered both building land and construction facilities. For assets for which no property relations have been settled, systematic and planous resolution activities have not been undertaken. Surely all units of local self-government are not even human beings strong enough to deal with this problem, but these are certainly funds and units of local self-government and the great potential that we have in some way is trapped, and given that we are not concerned enough, we remain at our side. It is enough to hear the information that it was not used at the end of 2014 or was outside the use of 3473 business spaces and 1979 apartments. Well, since my time is running out, I've got to get to the bottom of it somehow. This is where only 32 local self-government units effectively manage and dispose of real estate management and availability. In addition to these operations, the Office shall also carry out the tasks of cooperation with the authorities and international institutions and cooperation with the state authorities, including the exchange of documents and reports, answers to requests, giving and submissions, giving and opinions and participating in organised meetings in relation to the audit in question. In this reporting period, 69 audit reports were submitted to the MUP and to the courts. For all these jobs, we've heard how many employees there are, given the systemization, there are 23% of the places left. Since the previous year, the office rather than being more and more numerous, even 11 employees are less. What I can say and what makes me happy as a woman, a lot of praise for the work of the office, says that 79% of women are probably also contributing to it, and even so when I look at it, there are us, we are more. This State Audit Office report, as well as previous reports, should be of great importance to all of us, a starting basis, in which law needs to be amended or specified, this document should be studied well, at least in that segment when it suggests something, when it criticises, when we want to speak. This report really should be a guideline for all of us, here's all the praise and the HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49159	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49160	My colleague Juričev, you've made a fine count of the great work that the State Audit has done. I sincerely hope that soon we will have a proposal on the new State Audit Act where we will statusally resolve the State Audit, employees because they are now hanging somewhere in some kind of interspace and I think simply because of responsibility, and I can even say credibility, they simply need to be given a firm and clear position from status through income and everything else, without speaking about education. However, this afternoon we heard screams, noises, we will, you HDZ don't let a revision be made at the CNB. I would recommend that these gentlemen take a look at Article 6. The State Audit Act and let them say until that Article 6 is amended whether a revision can be made in the CNB or what else. I've been saying it for two years, but some people don't want to hear it on purpose, but they keep saying it's someone against something. The second thing is to amend the CNB and de-in communication with the Central Bank in Brussels, and when that happens, it is precisely known as some other countries, which the State Audit can control in the business of the CNB. I sincerely hope that, when the amendment to this Law on State Audit on benches is amended, this Article 6 will also be amended, and I hope that we will also discuss in this House the first State Audit report on the business of the CNB in accordance with EU directives, as the European Central Bank rules require, what the State Audit can control from the CNB. It's the worst thing to create from something mystical. As if the business of the CNB is mystical, so they have commercial audits that control some business there and eventually, if these people have done something other than the law, eventually someone will say it, eventually they will answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49161	Thank you. Some of them won't even have anything to say here. Here you are, to be answered by representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49162	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Shucker, tomorrow we begin reading the first reading of the revision bill. I hope that we will open some topics here too and remember the State Audits, but the recommendations of the State Audit do not forget when adopting any amendments and additions to the law on these topics that we have discussed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49163	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jurič-Martinchev, your exposure was so that it was actually through him we absolutely went through the work of the State Audit Office. And it's really always sad, it's ever since primary school, when the classroom says someone's late in the morning, not that anyone who's late hears those who are, that someone who isn't in the Parliament, hears those who are in the Parliament, so here's because my colleague Bacic is leaving, but with the vice president he's got 13 of us, and of 13 he's 6 women. And look at 151 MPs how many women there are, so I'm just going to refer, what you are in the end, that wasn't why I chose the replica, says 75% of women. Now, that's the theme of glass ceilings we can talk about, where we should work, there's 75% of your wife, my dear colleagues. And so we sit neatly, neatly every task we get done. Likewise, I would really like to refer to the office's work. No matter what side we're sitting on here, when we talk about revisions, we're saying that they're well done, that they're professionally made, that one of us doesn't like what's inside, that's a different topic, but they're structured in the way that we should, and there's an awful lot of work. And an awful lot of effort, just in what my colleague Juričev-Martinchev said, you start from the local self-government unit through high schools and we end up in the tourism strategy. You must be even teamed up and certain knowledge that you can even read it so that you can do something. So I'm actually using this replica because my colleague really went through quite systematically, so everyone who doesn't sit around and maybe listens somewhere, gets a picture of what it's all about, but it shows how to be teamed up, it shows expertise, and it's no wonder you've got 11 people gone. Because when people find a better job for more money, they leave, of course, and what our interest should be to get the most professional people because then the state administration and everything about it can be better and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49165	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49166	Just one female comment, probably out of those 11 were men who left the state office.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49167	Okay. Next, we move on to individual debates. My colleague Miro Bulj called, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. Comrade Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. That concludes the debate and we'll vote on this report when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49168	Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2016. The applicant is the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2016 is hereby adopted". Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of the 118 votes for and 1 abstentions have been reached in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49169	We move to the following point, which is: (a) The proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures (a) The proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 8. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Natasa Mikush Zigman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to unite, so cover these two points, or decisions. Yes, yes, of course, both of you. that is to point out the Government's proposal concerning the discharge of the members of the State Commission for the control of procurement procedures and the appointment of a Member of the DKMO as well. By way of derogation from Article 8 The law on the State Commission has been established that the President, the Vice-President and the other members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the light of the provision of Article 8(3) of the Act, a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures shall be appointed for a period of 5 years with the possibility of another term of office, so another appointment. As so far members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Daria Duždevic points out the first term of five years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out at its meeting on 29 June this year the Proposal for a Decision on discharge and is also at the same session, so as to establish a proposal for a decision to re-nomination Ms Duzdevic to the Member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Ms. Duzdevic thus meets all the conditions for the appointment prescribed by law and no obstacles to her appointment to a new duty have been laid down. I therefore propose on behalf of the Government that Mrs Duzdevic be accepted, resolved and accepted by the members of the State Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49171	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the first reported to the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj on behalf of the Representatives of the Most. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is distinguished representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49172	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Very short. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is also important to the independent body of the Republic of Croatia, controlling public procurement procedures. We have a meeting agenda point, so the State Commission's report on public procurement procedures for 2016 when we're going to talk more about the topic that interests us all, which is public procurement. Otherwise, the Commission has 9 members, 1 president, 2 deputies and 6 members. Ms. Daria Duzdevic has been proposed by the government since her mandate expired. Another mandate can be given, i.e. He can do it again. And I think here, the HDZ Club supports the appointment of Mrs Daria Duždjevic to the Commission's member to control the procurement procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49173	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. There's no one else who answered. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I wish you a pleasant evening, and tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 and will be the first to propose a law on review, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 172 At 9.30, of course we'll start. [[Intruder: Continue in the default way?]] Session interrupted at 17.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-19-0.u49174	A) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and A) Proposal for a Decision appointing a Member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of Daria Duzdevic of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Please, let's vote. I note that with 116 votes in favour of both 8 votes and 8 abstentions, a decision on the resolution of Daria Duzdevic, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. B) I am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision to appoint Daria Duzdovic as a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Please, let's vote. I find that with 118 votes for, 5 abstentions, the decision on the appointment of Daria Duzdevic as a member of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures was made in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
