ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24723	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are continuing the debate on the proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of Fight against peer violence". Before further discussion, dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP representative club yesterday sought a break in which he spoke about advisers of members of the government of the Republic of Croatia above all about Mr. Ilčić, his views, such as the one about how men should read the newspaper after working time and women cleaning the houses. Today we must continue in that tone. The reason why we are looking for a break is the issue of the National Strategy to combat discrimination, the government's relations with it and the consequences that this could have on Croatia's EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24725	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino. Dear colleague Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24726	Dear Vice-President, I am also looking for a break on behalf of the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List on the subject of treatment of unbuilding land status for the city of Vodnja, which on the one hand created legal uncertainty, raised a number of issues with potential consequences and damages for all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24727	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi. Dear colleague Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24728	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, and I'd like to talk about revoking the location permit for a golf project on Srđ higher Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24729	I thank my esteemed colleague, Kristic. Dear colleague Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24730	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break in the restructuring of Petrokemia Kutin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24731	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard. Dear colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The HDZ Club also joins this SDP effort to discuss Croatian government advisers a little more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24733	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24734	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break to say something about the President's disastrous announcements about the pension system's collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24735	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. That's it. Determining a ten-minute break, proceeding at 9.45. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the Social-Democratic Party Club, distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We asked Stanko to warn the Croatian public about the damage the Croatian government could cause by failing to adopt a National Strategy to combat discrimination and a corresponding action plan. The adoption of this strategy is a prerequisite for withdrawing money from the European Union funds, more specifically from the Operational Competitiveness and Cohesion Fund for 2014 to 2020. The government was obliged to adopt this strategy by the end of last year. December 31st last year was the deadline. But the government didn't adopt her. With its behaviour, the government has questioned the possibility of withdrawing more than 6 billion euros from European funds. And the creation of this Strategy was launched by the SDP, Milanovic's government and completed by the MOST and HDZ government under Prime Minister Oreskovic. Last June, a public debate was held and all the relevant professional services of the HDZ and MOST government gave a positive indication of the draft national terrorism control strategies. The European Union itself participated in the development of an 82 000-euro aid strategy. And now this government, the government of Andrija Plenkovic, is stopping the adoption of the National Strategy for Discrimination. Why, Prime Minister? Does anyone in your government mind suppressing discrimination? Does anyone in the government have a problem with gender equality? Questions about women's reproductive health? Any questions about freedom and real, sexual orientation rights? Issues of protection of national minorities? Questions of protection and the rights of vulnerable groups and same-sex communities? Does anyone in the government mind the organization of activities in schools for non-religious students at the time of religious teaching? Prime Minister, you have condemned the attack on the LGBT community at Club Super, Super, show that you were honest in that conviction, confirm your words by actions, be credible. Otherwise, the erosion of citizens' trust in the government's sincere intentions will continue. Already today we hear in public insinuation that they blame themselves at the club and that they may have planted the tear gas themselves. This justification for such a monstrosity structure reminds me of war criminal Radovan Karadzic, who accused Muslims and the people of Sarajevo of bombing the Mercala market where innocent civilians were killed. Prime Minister, stop your ministers and their newly-roasted advisors in their intention to make it impossible for Croatia to withdraw money from European funds. Do not let your government lead not conservative but retrograde policies in the field of human rights. Don't let all those achievements in the field of human rights that we fought for for decades as a society, don't let that happen. And we don't need any new National Strategy to combat discrimination, we need the adoption of a strategy lying on your desk, Mr. Prime Minister. A strategy that is the fruit of joint work and the Government of the SDP and the Government of the HDZ and the Government of the Most. Since we consider this issue extremely important for the state of human rights in our country and for the question of withdrawing money from the European Funds, the SDP will seek an emergency session of the Committee on European Affairs where we will determine hopefully common positions. There is no alternative here, the strategy must be adopted as soon as possible, and this is a strategy common to the two Croatian governments, so the SDP government, the HDZ government and the MOST government. On the contrary, unfortunately, it could be interpreted as an attempt to adjudicate achievements in the field of human rights that we are proud of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24738	I thank my esteemed colleague, Joschko Klisovic. On behalf of the Club of the Istrian Democratic Assembly, the Primorje-goran Alliance and the List of Rijeka's esteemed counterpart Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24739	Dear Vice President Sabra, dear colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break on behalf of the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List on the subject of the latest case back several days relating to the treatment of ownership status over unbuilt land, which was in its own time in the social property regime, which during the 1990s and 1990s was within the boundaries of the construction area of the town of Vodnjan, for which, several days ago, an unfair judicial decision was taken which treated the unbuilt land as property of the state and as agricultural land which, in this case, created legal uncertainty, raised a number of issues with potential consequences and damages for all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia. I asked for a break on behalf of the club, first of all, with the intention of meeting both your colleagues and my colleagues, but also calling for us to look at this problem together as a whole of the problem, but also as a whole of the solution. First of all, I would like to point out several facts, that social property was abolished in the territory of the Republic of Croatia during the 1990s, that at that time the process of transforming social property, that one of the fundamental rules applicable to the conversion of social property, or that the properties that were held as social property and were within the borders of the building area became the property of municipalities and cities, and that the land outside these borders was based on the Law on forests from the 1990s and the foundation of the Law on Agricultural Land from the 1990s and the first became the property of the Republic of Croatia. Despite this, today after 27 years, we are still discussing social property and, above all, because foreign authorities are constantly coming new, changing legal views, rules that deviate from the accepted way of working and change the practice so far which unfortunately goes to the damages and municipalities and cities that we have, in total, as a consequence of the above, are unnecessary, long, expensive, mutual litigation and between the state on the one hand and the municipalities and cities on the other, the braking of both public and private investments, to the extent that the state has disputed and sought to take away both municipalities and cities owned over the streets, over the squares, over the cemetery. So we have an illogical and extremely absurd situation. Our club's view is that it's high time to make a turn, to start thinking properly, and in a way that at the state level and municipalities and cities are partners, that as partners, we are working together, primarily faster economic growth, more investment, more jobs. But also, the legal uncertainty as a consequence of the non-compliance of the positive rules begins to be resolved, for example, by the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia, in such a way that all land within the general urban plan is prescribed in that law, and it was in its own social property regime in time to become the property of municipalities and cities. Such an attitude would end unnecessary court disputes, avoid extremely high court costs, speed up investments, create new jobs, and thus have more income both state and local levels. And from our point of view, it's a win-win solution where no one loses, and everyone wins. That is why our club holds that the time has come for the land currently owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is within the general urban plan to be transferred to the local level of our club's position is that the state level in the first order needs to ensure the legal framework and functioning of the same, and in this sense we call on the government to open up the debate of the entire legal solutions in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24740	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi. On behalf of the MOST Club, a break was sought by a respected colleague, Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24741	I thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I have used this pay phone several times in the past two conferences of the Croatian Parliament to discuss the adverse effects of a real-estate golf project on Srđ higher Dubrovnik. So that's when I mentioned the referendum, the first referendum organised by the citizens. That was exactly 4 years ago when 10 and a half thousand citizens of the city of Dubrovnik said no to this real estate developer project. The referendum failed solely for reasons because then the complete media machine, but all the party structures helped not to realise the referendum then and not to do the will of the citizens. But the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik did not give up, the civil initiatives did not give up, they sought justice at different institutions of the rule of law. And today their perseverance has paid off. So the Environmental Impact Study for the project was annulled. Following the cancellation of the Environmental Impact Study, a local authorisation was granted for the project. The only institution that has not carried out the powerful verdict of one of the state bodies is the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, or mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Mr. Nikola Dobroslavic, who has for the past two years failed to execute the judgment of the High Administrative Court to cover the project from the illegal 310 ha return to 100 ha in its legal gauges. Today, citizens of the city of Dubrovnik organize a protest in front of the county at five to 12. And on this occasion, I would like to invite all the citizens of Dubrovnik to join this protest. And I call, of course, on the Mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva County to execute that verdict in order to prevent further damage to the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik and of course the Republic of Croatia, because in case the verdict is not carried out to remain in its 310 hectares. The Republic of Dubrovnik and its citizens risk huge damage in the process of arbitration that follows. So now investors in this project have absolutely nothing. All illegalities have been discovered, it is time for the verdict to be carried out, to return the project to 100 hectares and then to open a dialogue on the further development of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24742	I thank my esteemed colleague, Marie Christic. On behalf of the HSS, he was asked by a respected colleague, Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24743	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here today, I would like to draw attention to the topic on the restructuring of Petrochemy Kutin on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club on behalf of the agricultural producers. The Kutina Petrochemy is another of the very rare industrial plants that has been preserved in the function of working and producing food for food production, i.e. artificial fertiliser. The importance of Petrokemia Kutina for agriculture is very large for several reasons. First of all, it produces artificial fertiliser, secondly, there is a multiplicity effect for gas supply because we know that Petrochemy spends the most gas in the summer when it is not spent by households, for HZ Cargo, which one large part of the transport operates precisely on goods from Petrochemia, for car carriers that also carry fertilisers throughout the country and abroad from Petrochemia, but also the population of the entire Moslavina region, including Novska, even Garresnica. A large part of the people in the area are working in Petrokemia, making their families a reality. These days a new governance structure was created, i.e. The president of the administration has been changed. The president of the new management was appointed Mr. Djuro Popijac, who was once a fierce opponent of the privatisation of Petrokemia, but his current task was to implement the restructuring programme. Express the one that's been done so far. Along with Mr Popijac, a new member of the board and Mr. Mijo Šepak from HDZ who replaced Mr. Kupresak from MOST. Why am I counting this? Because these are the people who will decide the fate of Petrokemia Kutina because the government decides on how much state-owned Petrochemy Kutina will remain. There's a 200 million kuna loan to be restructured, which is quite a large amount, and I'll remind you that Petrochemy also had one of the largest remonts of about 100 or 120 million kuna somewhere last year. The current structure that has taken over power in Petrokemia is also looking for a strategic partner that has been sought before, but I ask the question, which strategic partner is worth producing fertilizer without paying the RS? The view of our club that Petrochemy Kutina should remain in majority state-owned because what it produces is strategic raw material, one of the most qualitative fertilisers used in the area of the Republic of Croatia, fertilisers to which our agricultural producers are used and fertilisers that ensure safe production. If it ceases production or changes some type of production in another direction, it will be a major disaster for our agricultural production and for the stability of yields because today every kind of fertiliser is offered, suspicious quality and what it says on the declarations is very, very questionable. That's what I'm saying from the position of the agricultural producer because I'm using Petrochemy's fertilizer myself, mostly, but when there's a shortage then we use some others that are far, far worse than what's being produced in Petrochemy. As I said, the final decision on the future of Petrokemia is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I appeal to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia for the entire government of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ, which is precisely in the management structure of Petrokemia, leads the main word that Petrokemia remains in the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia and does not happen again to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24744	I thank my esteemed colleague Lenart for this explanation. On behalf of HDZ, distinguished counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24745	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. There's a lot of manipulation coming from this stage, and today we heard one of those. Today we heard that the Croatian government is for discrimination if I am not mistaken. I think there's also if on this side it's a little too much. I don't know what word, by which gesture, by which act, by which statement you noticed that the Croatian Government is against the Strategy for Discrimination and thus actually said that the Croatian Government is for discrimination, I think it's a little too much. And when we talk a little bit about the metrics, however, the Croatian public hears and knows what it is. The anti-discrimination strategy under way must be adopted by 31.12.2017. Today for all those who do not know 16 February 2017 means we have very much time and work on it. And here are my colleagues from the opposition to inform them, right now, the establishment of a task force with the representatives of the government that will work on this strategy, so that this government, as I said at the outset, is all my, I would say, procedures, regulations, and it certainly showed that it is to fight discrimination. And will she be the kind of colleagues SDP and HNS want? So I believe they'll be dissatisfied with some things because they're similar, they actually identify categories like gender equality with gender equality. These things are different after all. What you have left in the legacy of this government, it will change, it will align. It will also comply with the new provisions given. With what might hurt you the most is that these many associations, and you know who they are, can list them later, who participated in the development of the strategy and in your time, probably, and I hope that warmly, will not participate in the development of this new strategy, maybe that's what hurts you the most. And when the deadline comes for this, it will be in line with the existing priorities of the Croatian government programme, I hope almost. A colleague of the coat of arms who asked for a break mentioned and this time has the need to mention Ladislav Ilčić, an adviser to the Deputy Prime Minister. Well, I wonder why the opposition hurts so much, so much itch, Ladislav Ilcic. Is there any reason why attacks on him culminated in 2015 just when he showed farce in funding radical associations such as B.A.B.E., GONG, CESI, Documents, Centre for Pensions Studies. For example, Ilcic said for GONG that it was only 0.15% of the civil association and 99.85% of the Institute for Public Change, according to data that talk about a very small number of members of these associations, about extremely low income from membership fees and domestic donations. It's only a thousand and a half kuna a year. And 10 million kuna revenue from the state budget of these foreign foundations like that of Sorosheva. I think it is not the word here that the Croatian Government is fighting discrimination, but that the opposition here is in pain, which is that these associations, which have been heavily funded by the state budget, are no longer getting that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24746	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic for this explanation. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, esteemed colleague Silvano Hreblja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24747	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a big headline in the morning, president of demographic extinction. This is whether or not to be a Croatian nation, I ask the Government to move quickly. I don't understand what rapid steps they are to improve demographic policy. I'm just one step away and it's a quality adjustment of immigration policy where we haven't made a first letter of that policy or a letter of P. And as you can see, read that whole, two pages in the Morning List, and as you'll see, right now there's an analysis, a large analysis of the retirement system's breakdown, as if the pensioners are guilty of this poor demographic situation, that these two things can be connected. Retired people have now made their own in demographic politics. But talk about the collapse in the pension system and not thinking about how it affects millions and 200 thousand pensioners, how that message, how that news works on them, I think it's pretty unserious and even in the paper. If someone's talking about the collapse of the pension system from the financial aspect, it's very easy, it's numbers, it's numbers but nobody here wants to analyze, it's just a flat-rate here. No one wants to say that HZMO is a vital old man of 92 who, for 75 years or so, has been giving away 77 years, so he built this country and the health homes and all these buildings that exist and gave credit to factories and roads and nursing homes that are still owned by HZMO and that we do not have a financial relationship with our pensioners, this is a legal issue, this is a relationship to their citizens who, through their contributions and from their contributions, have built this country for years, so this is not mathematics. And even if it were mathematics, how someone could talk about an analysis of the state of the pension system without saying how much the contributions in the past 27 years haven't been collected, how much they've been forgiven through the recoverys of various companies, how much the shares in the companies that had HZMO have failed. No one's talking about it. To talk about the collapse of the pension system and not to talk about how much in the pension system is paid monthly, i.e. on the basis of specific rules that are not covered by the payment of contributions over the years, I think it is unserious. To talk about the pension system, not about how many socialities are embedded in the pension system, not much, a billion a year. That's what employers paid less and people use up to the lowest pension level. These pensions are modest, small, and that's part of the welfare system. No one analyzes that. No one analyzes 5 out of 7 billion how much pensions are under special regulations that are not covered, which are not covered by contributions. So, the easiest thing to do is to talk very easily with the pompous headlines about the difficulties of the pension system, about the poor relationship between employees and pensioners, and nobody wants to design and explain to the citizens that this pension system is not a burden but was something that created this country, created what we have today, and that we owe these pensioners their right to create individual months and years of contributions to the benefit of their country. Therefore, I want to publicly protest this type of writing here and just the journalist to know, the second pillar has not saved 70 billion so far, but at the end of 2016 it had 84 billion. Please write correctly, correctly and correctly and correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u24748	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. I'm glad the pensioners are vital, thinking about demographics. It is evident that of these 6 reasons for a break with respect to national topics and the importance of these topics that some colleagues use this institute and to start a campaign for local elections, so I would ask that we have this in mind and that in future such things can call for a press release and then I can express my views on local topics, not abuse the Institute of Breaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31369	We would now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Care, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 90. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, and their reports were received at the session. Before we go to that I need to tell you two statistics. One is that today we have exceeded the number of thousands of replicas in the last three weeks, and the other is just so much to let you know, last year, last year, we averaged four thousand replicas a year. Well, there's only so much you might have one orientation. But regarding this point, would the proposing representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy Mrs. Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31370	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I welcome you all. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act that we have prayed and requested to go into emergency procedure for the purpose of establishing a single compensation centre. According to the latest amendments and additions to the Social Care Act published in the NN 52/16, the single compensation centre has been determined to transfer competences for the recognition of rights to guaranteed minimum compensation from the Social Care Centre to the offices of the state administration in the county or the competent office of the city of Zagreb as of 1 March 2017. It is also prescribed that, on the same day, the competent administration offices in the county will take unfinished cases to recognise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. In the meantime, the necessary preparations have not been made for the transfer of competence to decide on the recognition of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation to the offices of the state administration in the counties or the city of Zagreb, the need for redefining the proposal for the establishment of a single compensation centre for the development of a model that would ensure maximum use of existing capacities and ensure strengthening and professional social work in order to support families and individuals in overcoming difficulties. In order to redefine how to establish a single compensation centre and the complexity of the operational actions necessary for its establishment, these amendments to the social care law before that date of transfer of competence for the recognition of the right to the ULN shall be extended on 31 December 2017. The fact that this and making changes to the law, we used more to make some changes that were urgent and we assume that they were really useful to our users. They are also related to the guaranteed minimum fee, which will not affect the additional cost associated with the budget of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, asylum seekers and foreigners who are under subsidiary protection under the Law on International and Temporary Protection under the provision of Article 67(3) are prescribed that the Centre for Social Care shall decide on accommodation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The social care law stipulates that there is no right to a guaranteed minimum fee for the user of the accommodation service or the organised state in accordance with the provisions of this law or specific regulations other than the homeless person who is the user of the accommodation service at the lodging place should be deleted or special provisions, as it follows from the existing Article 29(2) that an asylumary stranger under subsidiary protection would not have the right to a guaranteed minimum fee as the accommodation is secured under specific rules. And the following, the amendment that we have provided for this amendment to the law is related to our users' minimum remuneration guaranteed by 32 thousand 768 and 14% of them is unemployment, due to the systematic fight against social exclusion of reintegration into the labour market, long-term unemployed persons of the HZZ have proposed a measure of labour activation of users guaranteed minimum remuneration through public employment and under-work hours with work for the general good. These users who are employed in public work will earn income for their work, and the proposed amendments to the law for their social inclusion and the fight against poverty would also allow them to use guaranteed minimum fees during that period which the existing law does not provide. Dear MPs and MPs, please support this proposed law and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31371	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31372	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. These amendments to the bill mention an article in which social assistance cannot be achieved if a personal car with the exception of disabled persons is owned, so they have the right to use a personal car, since they cannot do so without it. However, according to the current state of affairs in the process of the Ministry of Social Care, it is necessary to make the art of being a person, to prove that it really needs that car, or that it is disabled and that these procedures rarely last for more than a year. So now I'd like to ask you this opportunity, so not so much about the letter of the law itself, but about the very law for which these skills last for a very long time, and how can we help these people who really may not have the means to live in those years or even longer achieve some kind of normal existence. So my question is specifically why the art of this article is spent so long and there are ways to reduce these deadlines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31373	Thank you for answering the distinguished Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31374	I thank the respected representative for the issue of cars and car use. There is one restriction in the Social Care Act, it is not subject to this now proposed, amendments and additions of the Law but I will answer since a terrible number of questions are precisely to restrict the granting or approval of a guaranteed minimum fee if the person has a car. There is one assumption that social workers can assess by their discretionary assessment whether it would be an exception to the restriction of obtaining a minimum fee if users had a car. As a result, a minimum fee is guaranteed as a right to be granted in respect of the property and income price, and there are frequent objections. Given that our country is quite dislocated, we have areas where there is no organised public transport we think we will soon consider the situation that such a restriction on the approval of a guaranteed minimum car fee may be viewed differently. But we also warn of the fact that we have been very often in public warned that users of social assistance drive us good and valuable cars. And here we really need to be very careful. The second question about art, the Office for the Single Body of Arts, is in the jurisdiction of the pension system. I think that because of the high pressure and the centralization, they have some difficulties and congestion, but I believe that soon, with the addition of the list of witches, they will actually be reduced because it makes it impossible to exercise their rights to those who need them most, and these are people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31375	Now I'd like to ask if the committee's rapporteurs would like to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one will be the SDP representative's club on behalf of which will be spoken by the vice president of this House, the distinguished Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In these amendments to the law, I am pleased that although this reform of the social care system is being extended to continue with this reform because in the last 8 months when the minister was Mrs Juretic, unfortunately with this reform she is fully concerned about these about 8 months, perhaps more is lost in the reform that I think is necessary,... and in the reforms of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I still think about 2014 as a reform that we are going to implement and now the European Commission is asking us slowly and asking what will happen to this reform because there is much in this system that can be arranged by introducing a single centre for compensation both from the aspect of the state and the spending of state money, so on the point of view of citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this reform was delayed once when we ended our mandate because at that moment we had the right, the new right, so the introduction of an energy poverty fee and the increase of the basics for the guaranteed minimum fee. As long as this was not done, until new solutions were issued it was not possible to transfer the guaranteed minimum fee as the first fee to the so-called so-called. a new single cash center. It's not about any new, so to speak, building a new system, but about using existing resources that are not used enough at the moment, it's about the offices of the state administration, whether this reform is going to go in this direction, I don't know, it's going to be decided by, of course, the resolution minister and the people in the government. But what I would like to warn here is that public administration offices can be a good place, it has also shown from the Ministry of State Administration itself that they have arranged something that has the capacity to expand and to expand, they are available to citizens in their units of local self-government and social care centres have been re-supplyed. They're very few, so to speak, to relieve this app that allowed them to get to certain data very quickly, to print solutions almost automatically. However, they have 160 public powers and about 50 rights and services under the law. So it's a job that employees of the welfare system do. The system itself never has enough money to employ an additional part of even employees in some parts of Croatia, nor has it been educated, so there are simply no people you could hire in welfare centres. And it would be so good to relieve them of this one administrative section. So, social benefits, as the minister said, there are certain rules, so the property censorship, the income price, whether you're satisfying any rights or not, and that's kind of how to say administrations that can be done with a good, good information system in the offices of the state administration. Of course it has to be there at least that's how we imagined it some kind of back office, so some kind of support professional to those who would do it. We tested that on the citizens' debt write-off. At that moment, we had people from the FINA and people from the IRS in the regional welfare centres, which means that the people from the center were tax collectors, and that they were all FINA, so all three of them were sitting in the room. The moment the party came, when there was some opposition the three of them had jointly resolved, they asked for an interpretation of each of their parent to say home and in some ways solved the problem really whether a person could get a write-off or not. Such a system should also be applied in this reform, hence the creation of a single monetary centre. And I think it's about time that the state really knew what it was giving and who it was giving to. The other day, I don't know which time, it seems to me that the Institute of Public Finance has made one analysis that found that we have 130 different fees that the state and local self-government are giving to the citizens. 75 fees are only from the state budget of different species from all ministries. This rest is from local self-government. And now if you came in fact, it's very little that you know exactly what you're giving and who you're giving to, and that's simply the order that can only be done with a single cash center like this where we predicted that first it would go to ZM as a very arranged fee, so that it would move first to this new single cash center and go further to administration. Afterwards, children's allowance and maternity benefits and other benefits should also take place, and at a later stage should allow units of local self-government to enter the entire system. Every unit of local self-government has its rights. It's a very wide catalog. When we tried to bring it together to say that on foot from local self-government units it's simply something that can be very difficult to put into some common categories. And the problem is also for people in local self-government because they can't know what someone got from the state, which they should still give from local self-government to help a particular family because social care should always make sure that compensation, so social assistance is not demotive for those who work. Unfortunately, we have a problem in Croatia that minimum wage is extremely low, extremely low. If you have a woman who works in the textile industry and gets a minimum wage of 2 and 800, then we need to be careful that someone does not get with all the child's allowance rights, maternity benefits and social benefits much more than that because it is then demotizing for someone who works, and also demotive and for someone who is in the social compensation to even get involved in the world of work. And that's why it's good, so we're on the same page with these projects, you're on. I hope that you will of course spread them with some new ideas how, which is a greater number of people in the social care system and dependent on social compensation, to try as much as possible to direct them to the labour market and to involve them in the world of work because it is simply the only good solution for them. This reform is extremely important because it therefore introduces order on the one hand when it comes to the state money that we give to citizens, but on the other hand it also assures citizens that they get all their rights in one place. So now they have to go after one right to the center, by the second right to the Employment Service, by the third right to HZZO, fourth right to - the right to pension. Not to say that with some rights, it's going to introduce quite an order and introduce something called justice, which is simply that with this system we're making it impossible for all those who are, who are taking advantage of an unsettled system. For example, in the child care system, this system is quite messy, there is not very good control of this system. You have one part of the people applying to the minimumer, their profits at the end of the year are extremely large. So they would by no means belong to this income censorship and have the right to a child's allowance. I think it's only fair that these people don't get a child's allowance, but you'll see it only when it really goes through all the systems and that the money that you're left with is really going to be directed at those who are hard to live and who could in any way give it to people who have low incomes than those who use the system and in some way live very well but play us a system that doesn't have enough control. I hope, therefore, that this reform will start from the end of 2017. It would be good to change in the next law in the social care system, and that decision to place a single money centre in welfare centres because the employees of the centre are extremely burdened. If we put them in charge now of administering a hundred and some compensation, we've actually destroyed the entire centers. The one who suggested it a few months ago in this House either doesn't understand the welfare system or it's very bad, because the only thing we can do is invent all the fees and administration from the center and free people from doing what they've been trained for. In many EU countries, employees of the Social Care Centre do not have their own offices at all. So they have an iPad and they have their own schedule. Their job is in the family. So, during the day, they have to visit a number of families they care about, talk to them. Our social workers unfortunately very rarely leave their offices precisely because they are burdened by a great administration and a powerful writing solution, so that they do not really have the capacity to talk to the parties, let alone go to a family where they can best see how this family works. This morning you spent all morning talking about domestic violence and the other day here, but my people without people from the center who can recognize certain things in the family can only see the moment they come into the family, without it there won't be any major shifts. That is why I appeal to you, Madam Minister, to correct one mistake from your predecessor who has even fooled the Croatian public as much as possible and said that 70% of the centres said that they would like all fees to be administered to them, that is not true, you know very well. The centers are so burdened that they want a part of their work to move away from them and to dissipate them and that the time they have really remains for them to devote their time to their family and really do what they were trained to do, which is working with families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31377	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice President. So in your debate, you put emphasis on these monetary centres and the emphasis on the need to set it up in the offices of the state administration. I have to say that the very fact that it has been a considerable time since the law was passed and so formed nothing could be done actually shows and proves that it will be difficult. And by my judgment, and that's what I've been saying in lawmaking, I'm not sure that's the happiest solution, and I think we're going to do exactly the opposite of what you're up against to reduce administration and red tape. I think she's an institution, and that's why I've reported most of the replica, which is the units of local self-government that are now placed in the third row of waiting, in fact the most important in this part that they directly cooperate with social care centres to have an absolute exchange of information other than that of information that gets into someone's stronger privacy that can't be obtained, means in that professional section, but that in this part of the unit of local self-government should be and that would be the first co-worker of social care centres, because they also tell themselves that they give part of these aids and basically all ends up at the end of the unit leaders of local self-government because we often experience that from the social care center, people in local self-government to solve something there. And then when local self-government needs something, then it has to be posted to social care centres, looking for malts not stripping secrets of information I don't know what to get some information to help people. So local self-government units were supposed to be in the first row of co-operation to solve this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31379	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Parliament will respond to the distinguished Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31380	Your Honor, Mr. Hrg. Except when it's really about that part about family relations then, of course, the center can't tell you anything because it has to protect family privacy, but when it comes to money rights, there's always a center that says what right it is because there's not exactly some big secrecy and they're working with local self-government units, of course. But when we did an analysis with local self-government units, everyone said it would be much easier, besides having a developed information system, which is a shame that we don't have in Croatia today, so the information system in which you can share that information because they're not secret. So if someone gets social aid, you know exactly how much. Someone has a certain degree of disability, so they get compensation for it or they have some pension, so it's all something that can be seen and in such a unique cash center can be done in the offices of the state administration. There are capacities and that's what I'm going to say once more shows and studies by the Department of Administration itself. And why wasn't it working eight months ago, I think I've been very clear here. The previous minister didn't care, she took the wrong direction completely, to return everything further to the centre. And once again, I'm going to repeat 160 jobs, and power has a welfare center. Do these people need more administration to put all this on their necks? So the public administration offices have the capacity and it can be done, we got the European Bank's loan to rebuild and we can develop this one step. And I hope that Minister Murganic will indeed continue this reform because it is a good reform and necessary reform of the introduction of order into the social care system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31381	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ana Komaračić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues of Milanka, I have to support almost entirely your debate and that I want to say that I support the continued reform of the social system in the Republic of Croatia. You've noticed and said that for a year there was nothing going on, that a whole year that was extremely important for this important system, so when it started in this reform, it started for one reason, and that was to introduce order. At that time in the Republic of Croatia, we had several levels of compensation from units of local self-government and the county and the state, and in the end we didn't know who received, who received from whom and who received from whom. So, I really think that order should be introduced into this system, that it is extremely important that compensations paid to the truth come to those who are most needed and that I agree with you when you say that social care centres are under the capacitated, that people who work in social centres themselves have over 160 public powers plus 50 rights and services, that we actually turned the Centre for Social Care and Social Workers into administrators and that they don't actually do work for which they were educated, or they're not with people on the ground where they need them most. And that I agree that it should be done by the state offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31383	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of Parliament Milanka Opačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Comparic Devcic, that I think it's very important to introduce order. We started, so with the information system that introduced order, which took it off the welfare system somewhere around 30 and a few thousand people who were playing a system that wasn't under control, that couldn't be controlled. We've rerouted that money to an increase in compensation for singles who have an extremely low fee, have no cumulation of fees unlike family. We've increased the fees and the single parents who are on, so they're receiving social benefits. Order is important for a country that needs to know who it gives money to. The order is important because people need to know that the person receiving the social compensation has a right to it. So it's also necessary to get that money. Because injustice creates great problems in society. We're not all witnesses to that. So every injustice people react to it very badly, sends a very bad message and therefore the introduction of order is extremely important. And what's even more important is that I think the state can also provide some extra money that can redistribute to those who need it most and who have difficulty living. On the one hand, these are people who live on welfare, but if the situation is better in Croatia with economic growth, I think you should think about increasing disability to a large number of people with disabilities with low disabilities at the moment. So it is better to actually make the order and take the money to those whose money does not belong and to those who need it much more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31385	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the next one will speak to the honourable representative Marko Sladolov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31386	Vice President, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It is very important that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, in the coming period, put emphasis on improving the efficiency of the social compensation system, empowering the information and management system of social care and establishing an even network of institutional and non-institutional services, continuing the transformation of service providers. The consolidation of social benefits should be based on the standardisation of the criteria for granting compensation, and only by establishing a single administrative place in order to unite the administration of fees will provide for a simpler process of verification and exchange of data with authorities at national, regional and local level. The purpose is actually to pool administrative fees to reduce irregularities and irrationality in the social protection system. This will actually need to result in a guaranteed minimum standard as a maximum limit for the cumulation of social benefits that can be achieved from both national and local levels. The unitary compensation centre would combine the process of recognition of cash compensation, thus guaranteeing minimum compensation, maternity and parental benefits for the unemployed, and child benefits. This would allow for supervision of all social protection benefits and prevent abuses in the system. Since no organisational and administrative conditions have been established so far to transfer the competence of the entire administration of the guaranteed minimum compensation from the Social Care Centre to the offices of the state administration in which a single compensation centre should be established, and due to the operational actions necessary for its establishment. These amendments to the Social Care Act state the date of transfer of competence for the recognition of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee shall be extended on 31 December 2017, which we will, of course, support, although we regret that the assessment of the situation does not specify specific data which, with the establishment of a single compensation centre so far, is done, the reasons for the second prolonging of its establishment. So, we'd like this to be the last prolonging for that matter. In accordance with the Law on International Temporary Protection, the provision of Article 67(3) provides for the Centre for Social Care to decide on accommodation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The social care law stipulates that there is no right to a guaranteed minimum fee for the user of the accommodation or organised housing service in accordance with the provisions of this law or specific regulations, except for the homeless person who is the user of the accommodation service in the overnight, it is necessary to delete this provision or specific provisions, as it follows from the existing law of Article 29(2) that an asylum and a foreigner under subsidiary protection would not have the right to a guaranteed minimum fee as the accommodation is provided under a specific regulation. I would like to draw attention to the fact that according to the provisions of the Social Care Act and the right to a guaranteed minimum fee, there is no homeless person who is on temporary accommodation in the shelter who can receive only those homeless people who use this accommodation service. And this same right of compensation regardless of accommodation is now provided to asylum seekers and foreigners by... Protecting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So part of the homeless decided to leave the shelter so as not to lose a minimum guaranteed fee and stay on the streets, but also in other public places. And it certainly needs to be warned that we are violating equality in front of the law and constitutional principles that we must adhere to for every citizen of ours. Labour activation of labour-efficient social benefits users, guaranteed minimum male or household benefits shall not be abolished and shall not be reduced by income generated on the basis of public employment. The Croatian Employment Service has proposed a measure of labour activation of users guaranteed minimum benefits through public employment in part-time with work for the general good. These users who are employed in public work will earn income for their work, and the proposed amendments to the law for their social inclusion and the fight against poverty would also allow them to use guaranteed minimum fees during that period. I also draw attention to the fact that most of the proposals were adopted during the public debate, because they are not really the subject of these amendments to the Social Care Act, and nevertheless these proposals should give the ministry a detailed and serious analytical report because some proposals are based on the practice of experts, practitioners and scientists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31387	Thank you very much. We have one replica but there's no one who wanted to replicate, so let's go to the next club of representatives, and that's the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party and the others not to list everything. Dear Representative Rechimer Varda, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31388	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Minister. So my debate goes in terms of this extension of deadlines. This is not the first law in this assembly that requires an extension of the deadlines, so maybe I should make a little joke. I think it's time to propose a law implementing the laws and responsibilities of the competent ministries to comply with the obligations under the applicable laws. Namely, regarding the unique compensation centre you claim in the assessment of the situation, and I believe that until the day of submission of this proposal to the Croatian Parliament, so on 9 February 2017, the percentage of the contract is only 7%. It's from your assessment of your condition. I therefore doubt that, in the period until 31 December 2017, this job will be completed, and then we might also be in danger of contractual obligations with the bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development related to a 12m-euro loan. However, I believe that you will try to make the most of these funds and that the Republic of Croatia will not be at risk of any lawsuit or payment of any fines such as this case with the latest European Commission’s application to the European Court of Justice regarding driving licences, etc. In the assessment of the condition you listed, I apologize to some devil's bell, and I have to turn it off. The assessment of the state of this amendment law and the additions of the Social Care Act is not unfortunately, therefore concrete data that has been done so far except for this percentage, so I doubt that you will actually succeed by the end of this year and finish this job. However, this proposal for a law which delights me in amending and supplementing the law increases the scope of the law, you yourself pointed out asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection based on specific rules, as well as on the working-age of guaranteed minimum benefits and users of rights, and guaranteed minimum compensation and personal disability or compensation for assistance and care that generates income from public service employment, in line with the measure of the Croatian Employment Office. Therefore, it is about persons who, because of unemployment, lack of income, live under conditions of poverty or are at high risk of poverty and social exclusion. So, these changes that you are proposing by proposing amendments to the law, regardless of the time limit for applying the single compensation centre, you are encouraging and increasing the possibility of their working activation, which is of particular importance, given that these people are most often not competitive on the labour market and are very difficult to employ. In this context, my club will also accept and vote in favour of this draft Law amending and supplementing the law with regard to the deadlines. However, the issue of respect for the fundamental principles of social care is raised from the perspective of other persons living in conditions of poverty and exercising the right to cash compensation in the form of social care. They shall be placed in an unequal or unfavourable position if users are guaranteed minimum income benefits based on a contract concluded outside of public service measures, as well as users guaranteed minimum fees which, during the course of their right to a guaranteed minimum fee, are obliged to carry out work for the general benefit without compensation. Therefore, I would ask you to declare in your address on the need to treat and protect the rights of these groups of users in the same way as these groups of users. And the possibility of re-evaluating the justification for the establishment of a single compensation centre, as warned by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. What I read, namely the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, is that I quote "in case this does not give up" from the single centre for compensation "recommends both in advance and prior to the establishment of planning work and administrative processes at the single centre for compensation as well as in social care centres to avoid creating parallel systems". And in the end of the day, I repeat that the club will vote in favour of this law, amendments and additions to the law, warning me that I am too short for the use of these funds and the establishment, the establishment of a single compensation centre. And in that sense, I think it would be smarter to propose a deadline by the end of 2018 until it actually takes the time to use these funds according to the contract with the bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31389	Thank you. Now, some of the answers are likely to be presented by the distinguished Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31390	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's the need for me to maybe respond to Mr. Varda's previous debate, and otherwise some of the facts that you've presented that I'm really going to agree with because they're justified. I really need to feel bad, me and my ministry because it is now under the impression that, within this short period of our duty, we have not done what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done in that previous meeting, so in 2014, it has committed when it signed or raised a 70m-euro loan from the World Bank, of which 20m euros is intended for social care reform. 7% of the spending of these funds does not apply only to a single compensation centre but in general to the entire reform in which four components were deinstitutionalisation, a reduction of abuse and error, a single body of art, which had already been mentioned in the replica of Mr. Representatives and a single compensation centre. Since the single compensation centre entered into the national reform programme no matter what government and when the next one takes over all these obligations and we are aware of the fact that we have a really short deadline. For a great undertaking, I listen to debates and as a representative two years ago I spoke about this unique compensation centre very realistically aware of the fact that it is a big undertaking and it is a process to be started, but it is a process that needs to be upgraded and it is a process that takes place. Whether it will be at the Office of the State Administration, whether it will be at the centres for social work, our obligation to establish quality social benefits is the same, the cost is the same, it can't be done without educated and trained people, without the staff we don't have in the centres, but there are no obvious for this kind of work anywhere, treat citizens' fees in a way we'll come and we'll hand over the counter because of the laws and regulations of the social care law and the principles of social care and related sciences are necessary contact with the customer, so it's not enough to submit just a request and these stories... shop can be quite questionable. They can be used for some fees but not for everyone and always. So it's also going to be very difficult for me if we don't get into these deadlines because there's a major information procedure, there's a major procedure in human training, there's a major procedure in the equipment of information equipment, I repeat, no matter where it was. I would now ask the MPs when we are discussing that we are aware of the fact that this is a procedure and a process that should be built no matter how they think and no matter how they go about it, we must not give up or constantly change our steps. So I think that in this debate I really agreed in this address, I really agreed with your debate, and I need to talk about a single compensation centre as a consolidation of social benefits, to be really careful. There is another fact, we like to tie up now, according to the same criteria, we will also approve a guaranteed minimum fee and child benefits and maternity benefits and a lot of things, but you know that the Republic of Croatia has defined itself for demographic revitalisation and we have already defined in the national government programme that some of our measures are not measures of social concern but are measures with a demographic sign. So it doesn't seem as simple as we do in the debate for some time we like to say it. This is not my fear or justification but a simple invitation to work together. Thank you for your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31391	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mladen Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31392	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honors Minister. I agree that part of the sea and what did not pass, but for the office of the state administration, because of the large amount of work probably the centres could not meet all these requirements and that they would pass by the end of the year the requirements to be addressed to the state administration's office. But I would like to point out now that self-control of users guaranteed minimum fees that there is no practical control on the ground because since I come from the municipality, the long-term chief has no control on the ground and it is very bad, because it comes down to more and more users of the minimum fee and it comes down to practically that in Croatia they are increasingly using the minimum fee and they are not looking for a job because it is better to use this minimum fee than to look for a job, unfortunately. So, more and more control, and just from the case of giving funds to heating that is given through money or through wood that goes across the county and through local self-government, that this heat is not brought to those users at the same time because they immediately resell that heat or do not use those money to buy wood. It means that it should only strengthen the control of the use of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31393	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31394	Well, here's when you personally address me as polite to answer, although in this part of your debate there's a lot that really stands, there are some abuses. However, they are not as much in a large percentage as people clearly do as one form of injustice can get hurt. The guaranteed minimum fees may have been really growing in some percentage time, they were also growing for the reasons that people who were working were jobless and thus they or their families and were entitled to a guaranteed minimum fee. I'll say something you may not agree with me, but it's as long as we don't offer people a job that is adequate to his and his physical and mental abilities and that is adequate to his, and he refuses us to reduce the right because it would put our poor families at risk. You know that the poverty rate in Croatia is quite high. When we are able, and we must already have control with the Employment Service when it refuses a working person an adequate job, then we can go with a repressive measure of suspending social benefits, but only to them not children, or those family members who depend on it. The control system is necessary and many of our leaders from the local self-government units are precisely why they asked for social care to be decentralised in order to have more insight into what is given as fees on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31395	Thank you very much. Now we'll go to the next club of representatives and that's the HNS, the HSU on behalf of which will speak the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31396	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So there's not too much dispute here about the issue of support or not supporting this law. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party will support the adoption of this law of 7 articles and I say there should be no dispute. Will we and how much we will be crying in a year of lost time since the agreement on the implementation of this loan is signed in the welfare portfolio, or will we not think that the same thing does not benefit too much, but we have to plan the exact time for what we are saying today to be implemented by the end of this year, so by 31.12 this year. I understand you, Madam Minister, and what we're getting into today, what we're making a decision about, maybe tomorrow isn't a bit easy. There's a person here who's been working on networking and data-stamping. Just before he looked at his colleague Paric, he worked on these networks of diverse data and from talking to him I know it's not a bit simple, so it won't be easy here this time. The question of whether it will be in the offices of the state administration or at the offices of the Social Care Centre is, in my opinion, a less important issue. This is a big loan for networking information equipment and education of people for data input and processing of all this data. You need to get something you can control, control the system's functioning after you input that data. So here in addition to the nomotechnics, in addition to the credit we have, in addition to the good intentions of someone operating this system must have a spatile factor, he needs to know which wheel to run. Now there's the truth, if we don't have enough people like that who know how to design it then the projects go very, very hard. But I think it's right as much as the minister talks about possible difficulties and obstacles on the road it's right not to give up, because then we didn't have to prolong the validity of this law. In the end, we become insecure as a state no matter which government signed what agreement. If we are determined to do something, we must do something or give up in time. Do not start using certain means for the project, then stop or make turns in the walk. Of course, this law also has certain good newspapers whether they are asylum seekers, whether they are persons who are guaranteed minimum fees. They should be involved in the work for the general good, i.e. in public works. So it's certainly to say hello. We have this one problem that exists, so the units of local self-government depend on which but relatively few open public works. The state can't open so many papers for the greater good itself. So the state isn't just the central body of the state, it's all units of local self-government. They're all on the same assignment here. So they create preconditions for a better, more humane life for their citizens. So there's no division here in local self-government and in the central state. I tried to initiate some public works in my town, so you know they told me that it was much more cheap to work with them for an open penitentiary because they don't have to pay for anything, and they also do public works. And I understand math. There isn't, people have openly said that this is cheaper. But I think that in any city that has such a privilege as the city of Pula, it should be and not or, or-or that, in any case, part of the work for the general good, or public works in which those mentioned in this law would participate and because of their participation would not lose the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. What bothers me a little is the emphasis on a little bit. Thank you. The emphasis is little, it is said in one sentence that this is in some way a contribution to the fight against poverty in the Republic of Croatia and I must remind that the strategy against poverty was adopted in 2014 for the period from 2014 to 2020. And then nothing new. On all sides, something is trying to contribute to the fight against poverty, but there is no action plan against poverty, there is no interdisciplinary or interdisciplinary approach to combating poverty to set certain objectives, certain measures to be achieved at a certain time. First of all, there is a first measure missing as far as Croatia's citizens as an individual must have as a minimum existence. What kind of income is that? We don't have those numbers. We have an income census of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance which says that income censorship per person 1516 kuna per month or if the person is single 1936 kuna. These are censorships that, if someone has below, free citizens from paying for supplementary health insurance. I have to admit the ministers that this system is look at it pretty well arranged and well controlled, that income censorship. And I think it's worth using. So, we have, on a lot of fronts, we fight poverty but we haven't said what the goal is, in which time we'll reach it and how we'll get there. So, action plans must be missing. Of course, I was already talking this morning in the break that we can't say that even in the pension system, the pension system itself, we already have the social elements and the fight against poverty. In fact, we have almost 220 thousand users of the lowest pensions where their internship and insurance, or payments of contributions, are much less than they receive. They're receiving about 500 kunas more than they actually paid by contributing not by their own guilt. It's also because they had bad employers, which they haven't made contributions in years, which was all that's been going on for the last 27 years, and before. The state here neatly about 500 kuna per person per month pays more for 220 pensioners and everyone is unhappy because it is small. Maybe that should be enhanced with certain social benefits, but we need to know where we're going and how long this society can last. While we do not have such known parameters, while we do not have such goals in the fight against poverty, then we will also have opportunities to economicize, or let's say creations and some that can be exploited by the social. It's not something that can't happen in our society, and it's wider for social welfare to be a profitable business. So, we must certainly prevent this, and ensure that in the fight against poverty we act in a way that all citizens live above the minimum level that we determine. For example, the Republic of Slovenia has for all pensioners who are receiving pensions from Croatia, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia has a certain level below which the pension cannot be independent of whether someone is 15 or 30 years old. It's a function of social security and it's the price that they gave someone citizenship. So we too will have to sort out our social security system sooner or later with certain solid parameters under which it cannot go. Here's my contribution to this debate. He was a little wider, but he wasn't off topic. Isn't that right, Vice President? Therefore, once again to underline the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian party of pensioners will support the adoption of this law. I want you in the ministry to be persistent and persistent and not to face obstacles that will surely be in the implementation of this system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31397	Thank you very much. Next club... Yes, but here is Minister Nada Murganic. Don't go out for five minutes. You don't have to use five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31398	Yeah, I don't want five minutes. But I wanted to say that here in this short time the answer to this, the programme of implementation of the anti-poverty strategy has just been adopted and today is signed, created and released into the procedure. I have to say this now because of the people who in the ministry are really trying to catch up with all the compensations that have been made here and what is justifiable, which have been unwarrantedly happening. And I'm just going to say the fact that you mentioned Slovenia and very often we also in our debates about a unique compensation centre like to mention from the fact that on the trail of this we can't, no matter how we call it now, this compensation centre, where it was and how it was, but I would like to think of it as a consolidation of social benefits that will be the basis for determining this social minimum standard of citizens of the Republic because these censorships that we have differ in achieving different rights. It's all this repeat process that we need to pursue, and it's something other countries couldn't do in six months, neither will we, but we have to go with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31399	Thank you. We will now move to the next Club of Representatives, which is that HDS-HSLS-HDSSB in the name of which he will speak the esteemed representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say that of course the club will support the adoption of this law and we don't have any objections to what was proposed, although when a little man goes along these articles and then starts walking around them like that then we come up with some very interesting knowledge looking at the whole law. This delay in introducing unique compensation centres at the state administration offices, me in some way, I'm not going to say happy, I'm not happy, but it's logical to recognize that it's necessary to introduce all the data in one place so that you can see exactly who gets it. I don't think this is a good solution to the law in general and to arrange state administrations in any case is another step in bureaucratic obstacles facing citizens. If we have extra people in state administration offices, if they have nothing to do, then let's move some of these people to welfare centers and we'll get a complete picture of all those who help and all those who seek help, or all those who succeed, in a very complicated law when they need help. Therefore, I have little to do with this law and amendments and then in Article 57(4) of the amendment, the new paragraph 4 shall be added to... within the meaning of paragraph 2 of this Article, no account shall be taken of the financial assets of the beneficiary of the minimum compensation guaranteed in the works for the general good referred to in Article 39(3) of the applicable law. So now I tried to follow the sequence, and then I came to Article 39(3), and he took me further to Article 57(2), subparagraph 4, and then that Article 57 led me to Article 27. And now I ask myself and all of us, how an ordinary man can at all discover what his rights are in this law because with these articles and articles there are even rules, there are still various regulations that appear there. In most cases, we have a situation in which those who need help in principle do not often even come looking for help. And at the same time, we have a situation where those who are doing well in this sort of thing are using a very fat system to exercise their rights. And now I ask the question, does this law in general deserve only these minor changes, or does it deserve to be changed once again well, thoroughly reconsidered to simplify it in this part, to create it available to those who need it most? Now I'm going to speak as head of local self-government. I've already mentioned it in one replica, so local self-government units are put here in the third plan, and the fact is that when people can't get along in these regulations in laws when often they might come across an unkind word in the welfare center, you know where they come from? They're coming to the mayor's office, the mayor's office, so they're the first offices they come to. I can't even get to the county, it's a little harder for them, it's a little remote for them but it comes to local self-government. We from local self-government in order to obtain any data from the Social Care Centre must be correspondenced. We, in this part of this law, are not meant for the right to networking. So the project was set up wrong for me. The main participants who are in general actively involved in helping people are not envisaged by networking but are doing another dislocated office somewhere else, so people will be walking for a little while longer. I think it would be nice to consider this all together in this period while delaying the introduction of this constitution and see if we're really on the right track. I personally believe that we are not and that we are going to complicate life, just as this part is to help people how and how to help people. At the very least, the aim of this law is to help the socially endangered, and I'm telling you people on the ground we're not helping. Not to say, often by the rules and criteria of social assistance we in local self-government get from the Center for Social Care where we see that some who are on these documents and on these lists do not fall into the social care category often times. And that some people who need to be there aren't there. So I'm saying that this is one big problem and that as a general rule, it's not clear to me, it's not good for people, and a man simply can't manage it. In my view absolutely until 31.12.2002, you need to see how to network local self-governments, how to make it work, how to make the law really focused on those who need help and who are meant to do it, to eliminate those who are good at it, and of course they cheat on the system because there is a lot of it and people often point to us and people who need it and those who don't need it and see who gets it. I hear a lot of times how you're helping that and that, so you know what he's got. I understand the part of people who are in a bad situation right now. A man can't eat a car, he can't eat a house. He could be out of a job. He could be socially endangered to have a villa. But he can't eat it. So these people need to find a model of help, too, but this part is one that's still a more permanent story. The public works here have been spoken I must admit that as head of local self-government we always use that convenience and I must say that in the last year, two, three days very hard to get people on public works, very hard. And in the end, it's often people who are generally not even ready to do a quality job, so you often have a situation that you actually have a cost, not some big help. But I see it as helping people, we spend it. I think most local self-government leaders work and think about it that way, but we need to see if that's it, whether it's work or find some other models. Because if we want to do something useful, then we have to solve it in a way that's really what's supposed to be called. Here in these few sentences, along with this appeal, to really consider this law once again, to really see this part in this delayed time to make it work and mandatory if it is possible to introduce in this programme units of local self-government that this data exchange is on a daily basis, that it can be seen, that it can be exchanged and that we can all work together on such a plan to help people who need help most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31401	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Hrg, I can agree with you that this law is unclear and that an ordinary man in it is difficult to manage. That is what we, from the Alliance, have warned disabled persons about when it comes to people with disabilities, let alone other citizens. But I am extremely pleased because I know that the Minister knows that this law is complicated enough. But these interventions, which we have before us today, were necessary to introduce. And to pass the Social Care Act as we all desire who would be clear, just for all those who will have any need to exercise any right under that law, I am sure it takes more time. So here I expect that the ministry, I am sure that the ministry will pay attention and special attention to this law and that here in the next year, perhaps in the coming year we will adopt a new Social Care Act that will be clear and just for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31403	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31404	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lukačić, I absolutely said at first that we support, so the adoption of these amendments of the law and actually tried to point out what I pointed to and on 8.9.2015 it seems to me or which when it was debated. Yes, in 2015, when the law at the time was under discussion. At the time, our minister was a parliamentary representative, and she pointed out in a similar way. So I'm convinced it will be. People with disabilities today, as you know very well, and what you are actively involved in, can thus say one good benefit that the Association of Persons with Disabilities that absolutely gather people with disabilities and provide them with one logistical support that can even get this kind of data and that I can, I point out to them what I can do. But of course there are a lot of people who still don't come up with that real data. And it's really a fact that the law has to be generally said to examine, analyze and try to bring it to the benefit of those to whom it is intended.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31405	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31406	Dear colleague Hrg, I understand well what you said and I think you have a lot of knowledge from the local community that those who can get. So, they manage, they're very informed about their rights. But I'd stand there a little bit in defense of the welfare center because they're doing really hard work, working with people. People who are professional but also quite burdened. I'm not sure the local community always makes their job easier. Your job is to have the kind of person who's looking for contact with you on the welfare issue to direct you to the welfare centers, the nearest social care center. But I must say that even because of perhaps political needs, because of the need for someone to have a better result in parliamentary and local elections, certain social benefits are promoted which are not in fact. Let us remember the city of Zagreb and the great decisions that the city of Zagreb will pay additional health insurance to all those who have lost due to the transition of revenue by two, three kunas. People don't do it that way, they don't do it that way. What about those who were 10 kunas above the census? That's not how you do it. A social superstandard can be determined in the city of Zagreb, and then you have to say about it. The city of Zagreb covers all those with 1500 to 1800 kuna, for which the state does not pay additional health insurance. That's how you do it. And we also have cases in cities where certain givings are carried out by children, such as childcare subsidies. How will those in social care know if it is, in fact, help and parent, and be guided by the child. Therefore, I agree with you that there is a lot of elements for cooperation and data exchange. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31407	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31408	Thank you very much. I didn't attack the Centre for the Social Scab anywhere, so I don't need to defend them. I want the Social Care Centres to really work better in that section of professional staff because this is still a kind of administration and I think that in fact the Centre for Social Care needs to step up in that part and that they should be the central places where it happens. But I'm telling you that due to the laws of local self-government and the Social Services have limited communication, limited means of cooperation. I know downtown people would often give us local self-government and give us information, but they can't give us any information. We're not looking for information that's related to not knowing family violence or anything else, of course, that's not an expert part. But we have a file with me in the town of Križevci, so when I saw that it wasn't going any different we made ourselves in the city in the management department one file, a social file which I assure you is certainly much more quality in this part of providing assistance than does the Social Care Center that works according to the regulations they give him. We've been a little wider here. So, we've got people walking around the field like that, they're gonna go out in the field. And that's the point of the story. That's why I'm saying that public administration offices are just one bureaucratic place where people have to scratch one more door again. And for God's sake, let's do something so people don't scratch on that big door anymore. Because whenever we pass a law, and what I said here on purpose, I didn't mean to talk like this at all, but when I started reading this. And now I'm going, looking for the next step. My God said this is impossible for someone who didn't really get into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31409	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31410	Dear colleague Hrg. Most of your debate would be based on what this report states in the law that most of the proposals received are not the subject of these amendments and the addition of the law, but the ministry has taken note of them and I think it is good that you have extended the subject a little bit in this section which concerns all social benefits that occur throughout Croatia other than the individual city or individual municipality. And I agree with you that we should introduce some kind of tighter control. For example, in my town, I personally find it unfair, let's say the city of Zagreb, which is financially strong, provides free textbooks for everyone, its children. So we made such a decision, although not all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have made such a decision. Not to mention the examples I know, and it's about my city that forty families meet the criteria of this law, and that the rights that we have extended voluntarily, probably you in your city, and other cities and municipalities are receiving about 120 families. When we look at what they get in that part of the co-financing of kindergartens, extended school stay, heating, housing assistance, electricity, that these incomes to individual families are much bigger than they would be if they were employed, I don't know about the Konzum or anywhere else. And I believe that some comprehensive future legal solutions would happen, I have no doubt that this will happen because I know that the minister comes from the operation, that she has worked in the local self-government unit, but she has also led the institution and that she is well aware of this problem and that she knows these problems very well, that she will soon be preparing a comprehensive law. And I hope that this law will also be limited, and I, as some kind of head of local self-government, make some decisions that will give more rights than I am to citizens in the wider area, and therefore, if we look at the whole country, we create even greater differences between citizens, I don't know in Zagreb or some small municipality and a city that doesn't have the fiscal capacity to give its citizens so much rights as someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31411	The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31412	And colleague Klaric, we understand each other well in this part and you and I in this role as representatives, but also in that role as local leader. Yes, well, there is a general discrimination in Croatia in these things where you mentioned it and a colleague of Hrelja spoke about the city of Zagreb earlier, he talked about free textbooks, some rights, etc. I also expect that in this new law that will be a restriction on the total amount of giving and receiving where local self-government will have to fit into that framework. That's why it's supposed to be the network, and we're on the same track and on the same path. And this part that you've been talking about and about free textbooks and some other rights that are absolutely absolutely, this is about a fierce discrimination against the children who live, now as some colleagues here in the Parliament, especially those living in poorer and rural areas, it's normal for the municipalities, some smaller municipalities, poorer municipalities and cities. Many smaller cities are in no way able to guarantee those minimum rights to their citizens who have other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. It's discrimination pure. Now, the Social Care Act can't handle it, of course, we can solve these other things to see who they really are that need to receive help, but I hope that that law on funding for local self-government that is being prepared, maybe some of these things you've been talking about, and that next year it will be so planned to make it easier for all of us together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31413	And the last replica of the distinguished representative Josip Krizanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, I understand your words as well, and I fully agree with you, especially with regard to public works. The proposal for a law in Article 2 has well decided that the minimum wage paid in public works will not be abolished or the minimum income compensation obtained from the title of these public works will not be reduced. It's a very good thing especially because we had opportunities in local self-government units many times having problems because people simply didn't want to go to public work, so we had to call 50 or 100 people to get a dozen people for public work because they would rather lie at home and do nothing. Furthermore, with concern and empathy towards unemployed people, it is important to say that there are also a lot of users and the minimum fees they abuse and do not want to work or on public works, but are working on black and receiving that fee. In that part, this change of law for honest and correct workers is good and ok. And I support her.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31415	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31416	My colleague Križanić, there are all these things you said and what I was saying, there are certain games and from local self-government leaders, I have all kinds of examples of how people were employed in public works, how they worked on construction sites of private companies, everything was. There's no control. We also have this problem with public works where basically you, as a local self-government, can take people to work, but in a communal company that you're the founder and owner, you practically have to pay for part of it, and basically these public works end up in such jobs and you should actually direct them there, but you're punished if you direct them there. I'm supposed to have my own management department in the town of Križevci that would eventually introduce some municipal works operational, and I have a utility company. Now if we take people to the city, then I have certain benefits easier, if we take them to the utility company, then I have to pay for the cut. It doesn't make sense, I mean the mass of these things exist, there were various examples that were happening, there are everything. Especially in election years, then it's big and wide. So there must be control, there must be control, but I agree it's very hard to find people who go into public works and realistically looking who can avoid it avoid it in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31417	Thank you. The next will be the HSS Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31418	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, on behalf of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, we must say that we have opinions of course that this area should be regulated by laws, but that we are committed to a complete solution to the area of social rights, social security and social inclusion. We believe that this law touches one segment of this, and that this has not been systematically resolved and that we are ultimately not harmonising our legislation with European legislation, but only partially going to solve certain issues. So far, mainly this area has been resolved through various ad hoc measures, and the facts on the ground say that this related to the surface cover-up of the transition divide of society, partly the resolution of the war consequences and the unacceptable applicability of certain categories of the population. The fact is that we have increasingly pronounced poverty, the separation of the rich and the poor and the large number of unemployed, and ultimately the eviction from the Republic of Croatia. We also have a sense of social exclusion. This all requires us to take a serious and comprehensive approach to this problem and strategy for the development of Croatia for the 21st century through these social policies. The fact is that in Croatia more than 10% of citizens are below the absolute national line of poverty, which is a worrying data, and the problem is also the coefficient of income inequality which is one of the biggest in the so-called ". transition countries right in the Republic of Croatia, while on the other hand, the coefficient of inequality of consumption is significantly lower. What's he saying? Yeah... some additional sources of income and the existence of a significant share of the grey economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we need to systematically talk about this area, and I'm glad that this is being discussed and that certain elements are being solved through this law. We positively assess the amendments to the law in the sense that the guaranteed minimum fee remains for those users of the guaranteed minimum fee, which through public works will obtain additional sources of income for themselves and for its family. Of course, local self-government units should also be commended because they have contributed to this measure because, nevertheless, for those people who are employed in public work, equipment and people who will follow it should be provided. And here I call on the minister to contribute, together with her professional bodies and people in contact with local self-government units, to the transparency and quality of application of this measure. And of course, it is my desire and to commend the welfare centers, or people employed in these centres, because they are often said not to do their job, not to the users of social rights. Well, here we hear today that we don't have enough control on the ground. But the fact is, they were overly burdened and unable to deal with their professional affairs. And that's why it's worrying for us, and we're against delaying the application of the single compensation centre because that brings together 70 different fees in one place, whether it's going to be in the offices of the state administration. We think and also in conversations with the social care centre staff they think that this is a good solution because it would enable social care workers to do exactly what they were trained to do and what their role is to provide professional assistance to users of the necessary social rights and, on the other hand, to control the placements of these funds. So in this part, we insist that this is not delayed, to find opportunities to introduce it as soon as possible because the fact is that Milanovic's government still asked for it to start in 2016, so Oreshkovic's prolonged for March this year and now we see that it will not be this year but only for a year. And I think we should insist on finding a solution to get rid of it as soon as possible. We also point out the problem that the rights of persons with disabilities are ultimately not resolved, especially to separate social rights from status rights. We also define what social rights and givings are and what are the wishes of the Republic of Croatia and all of us to develop society in the direction in which we want to have jobs, that people want to work because we also have the fact that employers are looking at competitions that the Institute cannot get an adequate number of people to come in, that the competition is being reported and worked because it is still present, public opinion that too many social givings are. For example, in Brod County in Brodo-Posavina, it is more than 60 million kunas and employers rightly ask why so many donations, whether we really have so many poor and needy and on the other hand there is no labour force and there must be a government together looking for a solution through different policies and development programmes. Of course, through the adoption of the law, we regulate this area and send a message of what social rights and social states we want to have, but on the other hand, we must also be active in implementing these laws and in controlling the implementation of these laws and through those messages that we send motivate people to have hope in jobs in Croatia. It is also not good to give up pre-election promises and here is a question from the field of what will be with compensation for every newborn child, why it gave up those thousands of euros, we think that through this measure and other measures of demographic policy we want and we need to preserve life in Croatia and especially in less developed areas. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31419	Thank you. We also have one replica, the distinguished representative of Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd just like to say that it's not true that it gave up some pre-election promises and I'll just tell you because you mentioned the right person with disabilities. The benefits which persons with disabilities receive and who are regulated by the Social Care Act are not social benefits, these are disability benefits. And as the election campaign said that these fees would be regulated in one way as people with disabilities deserve to be told here, I am glad that the minister is here and I have already mentioned it several times and I will again thank the Ministry and Madam Minister for coming to the minister's position as soon as she has started this right and to settle these fees. Evidence of this has recently been settled in the care of the carer. So the problems are systematically solved, so here I don't think we can talk about any promised solutions that aren't being fulfilled. So one step at a time, and you'll see that everything will be resolved slowly because what has accumulated, unfortunately, over the past few years cannot be solved in 2, 3 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31421	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31422	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Lukacic, I only transferred my opinion from the field since it did not start paying 1,000 euros for each child. The view of the terrain is that it has given up, and that is why I asked the minister, and she will probably answer when it will start, because at this point it has given up because it is not paying off, and it is not a good message to send. It will be, it will be, so people plan something, then it won't be at the end of it. And of course I understand that the problems have accumulated and that not everything can be solved and here, through a public debate on the draft of this law, the Public Advocate for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has just stated what I have also quoted as saying that social rights should be separated from status rights and other rights of persons with disabilities. And the answer to the ministry is that this will be dealt with systematically in the next amendments and additions and the adoption of the final Social Care Act. And that's exactly what I said in my debate that we need to systematically address this area of social policy and that we need a broader debate on this and that we need to be socially sensitive society, not that individuals take advantage of the opportunities they have if we don't have a quality system and Germany is a good example, that one law can regulate all of this. We're going that way. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31423	Thank you. The word will now be taken by the Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, respected Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31424	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's clean for the public, and also for us here who are in the assembly, I'm going to look back at a few exhibitions. Namely, it's an objection to the law. I also agree that this law now, especially itself, is quite nomotechnically unsettled and unsightly, and because of these huge changes to the law and the addition has contributed to it. This law, I said we were going into an emergency procedure and because of the short deadline we weren't prepared for any major regulation of all those rights that should be prescribed in our Social Care Act. And so I have understood all these remarks, criticisms and proposals, and we hope to do this more systematically in a future law, and that we will probably have a clearer picture of a clearer reform, of social reform, or of what direction we want to go. I will now return to the unique compensation center from which we all really all expect and expect with law. But I have to tell Mr. Horg, he's gone, and so are all of us. He is thought to start with these four social benefits that are mostly paid from the state level but that later in this unique compensation centre, so in one virtual centre, informational as the brain of the operation, let me express myself, join all other fees. In fact, those who are with units of local, or regional self-government. We should all have a consensus there together, but I have to point out that's a project that we have to start because we're now committed to one deadline that's pretty short. But it is a project, or process that will last, that will be built for our future. I wouldn't amnesty from this responsibility, which is why it starts this late with no government, or that government in 2014, when a contract was concluded precisely for a single centre for compensation where large credit obligations were taken over, or previous ones, so I'm not going to amnesty myself for these four months now. And I'm probably going to make a very conscious commitment to this deadline that we've all been asking you to do here today. The fact that politicians call us a lot for false pre-election promises. I repeat, we have promised in the government's economic development programme, new jobs and demographic revitalisation. One of the measures that is very often respected is probably to have what to honor us is a 1000-euro measure. We have replaced a 1000-euro measure, i.e. the funds that we had in place to increase maternity and parental benefits as a lasting measure that young families have just recognized to give priority. But from a measure called that, it's intentional now to potentiate some times, and he, it's a measure of compensation for a newborn child who already exists at 2360 kuna. As one future increase, we will certainly not give up, but we will achieve it in our four-year period as well as a series of measures from demographic policy that we want to present to the government and which we also ask the consensus that when we are discussing measures from demographic policy, we do not disdain them because we really need them very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31425	I thank the distinguished minister, Mrs. Nadi Murganic. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31426	We're talking about Roma problems here. Given the difficult situation of the Roma, the Social Care Act is one of the most important laws that directly affects their lives. It's not the only one, but I repeat one of the most important. The current practice and application of laws on whose amendments and additions we are discussing today, and when we talk about the Roma community, two main problems have been detected. These problems are particularly affecting the Roma, but they also refer to all other socially endangered citizens. I am pleased that these problems are conscious and that Ms. Murganic, they have been detected, and that we at least partially resolve them with the proposed changes and additions. In the context of the cooperation I have established with the current government and the Prime Minister's commitment to act actively already to involve Roma in our society. I also want to commend our cooperation so far and our efforts. Very little is visible, so I would like to point out this way that my office is in daily communication with a number of ministries and state bodies, and all in order to find a comprehensive solution to Roma problems that are social but cannot and should not be seen only through this prism and perspective. The first problem is employment. The HZZ report shows that the largest number of members of the Roma national minority are employment through measures, so-called measures. public works, through local self-government and associations. This unfortunately became the most common form of Roma employment, and they also lost the right to a guaranteed minimum fee and the other fees they had previously paid. In practice, this meant that until now Roma have been paid more to do and to collect all possible social rights, this has also proved to be a bad solution because many have chosen not to work. Not necessarily because they are lazy, but because in this context it is not worth working financially. Many have done themselves even more harm because unemployment is precisely one of the main obstacles to better social integration. These amendments and amendments to the law open up the possibility that without additional burden on the state budget of the Roma, but also on other citizens who participate in the work for the common good, they will allow their home budget to increase from one thousand to two thousand kuna, which will certainly have a more significant impact on their lives in a positive way. It is precisely because of the proposal to add an item in Article 57 which would regulate that the income for the recognition of the right of compensation for the assistance and care of the beneficiaries of the guaranteed minimum compensation is not included in the funds achieved by participating in the work for the common good. I will, of course, uphold this law. I'm sorry that it hasn't been done long before, and I hope we've seen it as 2,400 kuna or something is no longer enough to survive. If you look at life in Roma settlements you will see the consequences of ignoring the fact that minimum wage in our country is not enough for a sufficient life and survival at all. This, of course, applies not only to Roma but also to all other citizens, but since Roma live in isolated settlements, the consequences are even clearer and clearer in their case. It should not be forgotten that they are shameful, but as it is said far from our eyes they are far from our heart. I would like to stress that this change will not add to the state budget, and I would also like to emphasise that we have not used three million kunas in the past budget period precisely for the measure of public works that Roma are using. I'm sorry that we haven't done anything about it so far, but I'm glad that finally because of the changes in this bill I can tell my countrymen that they won't be punished if they want to work. By opening these options, we will detect and who are not ready to work, we will find out who is not ready to work in order to earn two or three thousand kuna in addition to social assistance for his family, and that will be useful to us. So, I am pleased to say publicly that our citizens, including the Roma, will not lose their social rights if they decide to work for the common good. Another problem I would like to address and end with is Article 29, paragraphs 3 and 4, which are problematic at a higher level and which we will hope to solve in a very quick way. It is about the use of personal vehicles, whether own or borrowed so far, which have caused a multi-member family to be absolutely socially threatened by individual decisions to lose the right to social benefits for three months, and then to bear in mind that they are really at risk again. I am pleased that Minister Murganic is aware of the problems stemming from these provisions of the law and that we have already had several joint meetings. We are all aware that people who possess expensive vehicles cannot be users of minimum fees guaranteed, but it is also very difficult to find a model that would be fair and applicable and by which we could decide who needs compensation and who doesn't. However, this is no excuse for less value to families who possess vehicles than they do on a monthly basis from social incomes, families who have heavily ill family members, and use those poor vehicles for their own purposes, and for families living in traffic-insulated settlements to prevent a decent life. Yes, there are those who have expensive cars, but should be heard for those who have no social income because they borrow a car from neighbors to take a sick child to the hospital and because of one person's decision they lose existence for three months. Currently, a legal solution does not distinguish a person in such a situation from those who drive expensive cars. I mean, first of all, law enforcement. In fact, although there is an exception in the existing solution for people who also use cars from medical needs or live in traffic-insulated environments in the application of sensitivity for these people is lagging behind. Every day I receive letters describing a situation where a family with 5 or 6 children lose social rights for three months because they repacked someone’s car. I want hours to go to the end, and I'm asking for the support of the ministry and the welfare center. So I don't want people with expensive cars to use social benefits. But we also cannot punish individuals who are at risk because of such individuals. I believe that social care centres will continue to hold talks and some future meetings that we will take into account objections to the unsystematic application of the current legal provisions and that the situation mentioned earlier will no longer be repeated. I have also received in some way confirmation that this will not be repeated and, until the disputed subparagraphs of Article 29 have been completely abolished and that I expect better model to be found that it will actually come to an end with such practice. In the coming period, we expect a great deal from the entire government because it is time to finally end the poverty that our citizens are exposed to. Even though we are particularly special, when we talk about laws advanced compared to other European countries, it is also time to start changing the situation on the ground. It's time to start using what we've plotted. I expect that we will feel these changes in relation to the possibility, work and use of new HZZO measures, as well as that we will target at least a part of our young unemployed and disfellowshipped in the direction that will enable them to live well. Operational plans for national minorities have not yet been adopted. However, it is very active in coordinating and finding a model for work, which is also promising because it gives us hope that the problems of national minorities will be seriously approached and, unfortunately, it was not the case with the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31427	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Velya Katazia, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ljubica Lukačić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31428	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague here I can agree with your debate and I am pleased that this law will help the Roma to integrate into society. Still, in a way, it'll help them. You mentioned article 57, which regulates the exercise of the right to compensation for assistance and care. Similarly, Article 55 which regulates the exercise of the right to personal disability. So I just wanted to complement you that this law will help the Roma, persons with disabilities, as well as other people with disabilities integration into society, which is extremely important. Because if someone is going to exercise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee and then they're going to do something through public work, there won't be an obstacle to achieving one of these two rights, which is extremely important, I think you'll agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31429	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic, on the line. The reply to the replica, my esteemed colleague, Kajtazi, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31430	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you, but we need to complete something, which is that these measures are short-term. Because members of the Roma community and those who receive social assistance will work precisely but will work through public works for 3 months or 6 months and will not allow them to live better. But I'm sure we'll help them during that short period. But there's got to be some model that's gonna help them live up to their normal lives. And I expect that we will certainly all work together on this and help them in Roma settlements as well as their standard be quite different than it is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31431	I thank my imported colleague Kajtazi for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31432	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Kajtazi, I agree with most of your debate, and I really think that these amendments to the law as well as to others who are in a social need will help, as well as to members of the Roma national minority who are certainly a large number of people who really need such help. However, I cannot agree in that part of the debate with you where you say there are situations where some people's rights are lifted for the reason that they used a neighbor's vehicle. It is not clear to me because as far as I know the law so far, all those services that determine the right have been obliged to establish in accordance with the law and in the implementation of the administrative procedure, therefore, the censorship based on the income of members of the household. So I don't understand how this is possible and, of course, I agree with you that in those cases where it's obvious that certain users who used certain rights have certain properties and so on and so on and so on of vehicles, great values can't continue to benefit from such fees. Here in that part, I don't know how it's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31433	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac on the line. The answer to my imported colleague, Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31434	Thank you, dear colleague. In the first part, I agree with you, too, but again, as I have mentioned, it's just a ceasefire because we all still have to look together and help the social welfare team, so it's not one way of life, but we have to look for something else, and that's constant employment. And especially with members of the Roma community where we have 16, 17 or 18 years of marriage and thus continue to live on welfare. So in that part we have to look for something and I believe there's got to be a solution just we all have to sit together and work together. And this second part when you point out exactly in Article 29(3), I will not read all of it to you, only in the end, says: “According to the assessment of the expert worker of the Social Care Centre.” Here I've had a chance to talk recently, here I can tell you from the box place with the principal and I've seen her behavior towards the parliamentary representative. I listened to her very well, and I didn't say anything to her. I just told her, ma'am, if you talk to me like that, then I can assume you're talking to my members of the Roma community. So social care centers, they're essentially tailoring a hat called the so-called. 'Cause look if there's one sick person, instead of us taking all the time to make sure that members of the Roma community have driver's licenses and in some way that they can use maybe the neighbor's vehicle because it's much cheaper for him to take the child to the hospital, etc. On the other hand, we're punishing him for re-parking the vehicle or for using that vehicle. We've got cases like this, I can deliver it to you, send me an e-mail. I'll get you a couple of such memos and I'll convince you what I'm saying is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31435	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Katazia, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Stevo Culej, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31436	Dear Vice President, here's a colleague of Kajtazi just ten days ago I had one delegation of your countrymen from Međimurje, five members of the Roma community whom we can say in Croatia that the most endangered community is if we look at the property, by rights we're all even but still how much respectable in certain environments it is questionable. However, what I would like to warn you about. You're right that someone who has a expensive car shouldn't be able to get certain benefits. And we are also aware of the needs because these are isolated settlements where mostly Roma live, often without asphalt, water, electricity they have the intrinsic need to have some means of transport, so punishing them only causes an even greater injustice to them. And as far as public works are concerned, as 800 kuna says for a working person or 920 kuna for a working incompetent person. I think that working skills should be included mostly in public works especially in the places where they live, because they know best what their problems are, so that through these public works in their places they can benefit their community from the compensation they receive and for what they get for employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31437	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Cule for the replica. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished colleague Zeljka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31438	Dear Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the proposal to amend and supplement the Social Care Act with the final draft of the law. In fact, you yourself have seen in the debate how this legislative proposal proposes to postpone the establishment of a single Centre for Compensation, as foreseen so far from 1 March to 31 December 2017. The minister also explained that the first step in the creation of a single centre for fees for the transfer of competence to recognise the guaranteed minimum compensation from the Social Care Centre to other offices in the state administration. Meanwhile, the new government has defined a new concept for single compensation centres. In this way, it tries to make as much administrative and organisational structure as possible of these centers. What I hope, like all of you, that we have stated in this debate, will be that the social care centres will dissipate and give users the best help they can. Of course, the very purpose of this unique compensation centre is designed to consolidate, unite all social benefits paid at local and state level. That wouldn't be, at first it would just be guaranteed a minimum fee would still be extended to maternity, maternity benefits, child benefits that we saw during this presentation of the ministry itself. If we go back a little bit during the past government, a consulting house has been hired to analyze the physical places where the Centre itself would be. That's what it's called for to be the public administration's offices. But we also asked the question during this debate whether public administration offices are the best place and whether it matters where they will be. What is important is that these places are functional and give users the best they can. And also, such centres through which all these fees will pass not only the type but also the number of fees and the justification of the fee itself. What we think is also a problem, meaning not only whether it's going to be the Office of State Administration or some other institution, the problem is whether we have enough capacity for it and the problem is whether we have enough people to do it, or whether we have quality and educated people who will implement everything that is needed in the welfare system. If we focus only on the Offices of State Administration, maybe we'll face something older, medium professional, so people we still need to educate further. So we fully support the delay for the establishment of a single centre for compensation in terms and in order to better organise the centre when it starts working. The second part of this amendment and the addition of the law concerns users of guaranteed minimum fees, which we will also support because in this way all users of the guaranteed minimum remuneration in some way introduce them into the active employment system and thus try them especially for those who are not permanently employed, who are much longer in the employment services to be included in public works and thus provide a more favourable position on the labour market. As far as the guaranteed minimum fee itself is concerned, it is very important in this supplement and the change is that the users themselves will not lose the compensation they received and will receive one part and wages from public works. Of course, it's not full pay, it's only one part or half, because it won't even work full-time. That way, I believe that by including us, we're going to work to stimulate and I believe that we're going to motivate people to keep working. If we mention only some statistical data that we received from the Institute in the share of unemployed in Croatia somewhere around 14% of users of guaranteed minimum fees, we will realize that this is a pretty large figure, so that in this way we try to allow people not only addicts to the social care center, but also in some ways they can do it themselves. I will repeat once again that this law, or the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, will be supported by the Final Proposal for the Law of the HDZ Representatives Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31439	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Josic, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31440	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs. I have seen the proposal to amend the law and I would like to say that during my stay in Slavonski Brod I met a man who lost his social rights and compensation, etc. Which is why, just because he's 30 years old, a car that doesn't have any value. We had situations where people in the soup kitchen, say, come in limos, and then it was media. However, I believe that in the amendments to the law, it should be said that the beneficiary of the social benefits cannot have a car, for example, worth more than a cartoon of 20 thousand kunas or 30, and then that provision would make sense. It means we don't have a paradox where somebody drives, now that I'm not advertising some model car, and they're receiving social aid, which is what the priors say if you have a car, maybe a man needs a car, you're being cut out of welfare. That's unfair to me because some people need a car. I met another case of a man telling me that a woman in that Brod-Posavina County had chickens, she was receiving social aid and she had 10 chickens and when they came in to check what, because she had 10 chickens that woman had lost all those same social rights. And now what kind of situation are we in? That people choose between having 10 chickens or receiving social benefits. And then, in fact, it makes people uncomfortable, it forces them to do nothing, and in fact, I think they're living on people, the more that social aid is small anyway. So if it was some big money I'd understand, but believe me, we got a minimum wage here, say, 14 thousand kuna, so with that cobweb, 12.5 is a salary and a flat-rate thousand and a half kuna, and what can a man do with 800, 900 kuna, a thousand 500 kuna? Try to imagine you, one of you, that your receipts instead of $14,000 are a thousand and you have a couple of chickens and that's why you're running out of chickens. Have you ever thought about that? You're probably not because you're not in that problem. But I think it's disgusting that we who have money bring laws that actually destroy poverty even more than are destroyed because always keep in mind that those people who are in such a situation are at least their fault, the state is the most responsible for it because it's not the problem of one person, one individual, one narrow group of people. I remember when I was a child then I watched the Roma dig through the trash, today the Croats dig through the trash in growing numbers, today the Croats live as homeless. Once the Roma were their symbol is that wheel, as the wheel spins they're on the move, today we have a whole gallery of people who sleep in trams. Imagine they're driving or sleeping on the move, let's say so. The state doesn't work here at all, it failed. And I'll never forget my stay in custody and meet those people there, that was six years ago. I want to tell you that social benefits need to be raised. They're too small right now, not enough to live. You'll say maybe for those people there's no money. So ask yourself how much money in total goes for all the social benefits together. Here I call for this information to be publicly said, it says in the budget, I haven't checked, and on the other hand I think about 4 billion kuna, here if I'm wrong, let someone correct me, or even less, and for, watch this, and for the repayment of the loan this year goes 65 billion. So a couple of financial institutions, or this global elite, will give them 65 billion and all the poor 4 billion. And then when I suggest that 50% of the social benefits increase and then they say it's a demagogue proposal, etc. But that's why it's not demagogue when foreign creditors are given 65 billion kuna. I think our society must put the interests of poor people ahead of the elite's interests. And that the system of economic, state policy, which gives the poor 4 billion, means hundreds of thousands of people and at the same time to that narrow world elite, let's call it the mafia 65 billion. I think such a system is unfair and needs to be changed. Most of you will of course say no to Pernar, it cannot be changed, it must be so. I say we don't have to, and every one of us goes to the election at the end of the day. You're going to the polls with this program where the poor girl gets crumbs, where for one whole series of reasons all these social rights can be taken away. But I don't blame you. And you know why I don't blame you for that? So because that poor girl backs you up, those people who dig in trash, those who survive actually from social aid, they're your constituents. Those who massacre these unfair laws are the people who vote for you, not for me. And on the one hand, I understand politics means HDZ and SDP, which I say gives 15 times as much to these foreign banks as they give to our country's poor citizens. And the problem isn't really with you, so it's not a problem with HDZ and SDP, it's not a problem with those laws that you've brought in that man because of some rag that's worth maybe 500 kuna, so if you're 40 years old, you'll be left without that social compensation. So it's not a problem with you, it's a problem with voters who actually support self-pression. And here when I'm standing in front of you, I wonder who's crazy? Maybe I'm crazy, maybe you're crazy, maybe those citizens who support that policy are crazy, but one of us is definitely crazy because this situation is unsustainable. It means decomposition of society, extreme poverty. Someone's gonna say it's normal, that's how it has to be. People have to dig through the trash, people have to sleep on the trams, people have to freeze in rows in front of the soup kitchen. Someone's gonna say it that way. I think our society can and must do better. And let me give you an example, when I was in front of a soup kitchen, I was talking to these pensioners who have a pension of 800 kuna, 1000 kuna. So imagine your pension is 1000 kuna, your heating bill is 400, let's say, pay you a TV subscription of 85 kuna, so these poor people, they're people who pay for the TV subscription. And I'm told by people in front of a soup kitchen, says Ivan, I don't have anything to direct if I buy food. And people are forced to feed on the kitchen counter so they can pay the director's fee. Imagine, by any chance, that you had no luck, no brains, no resource, no matter what, but that you were in the House, that you were on the side of those people who had no luck in life, that you worked your whole life and that you were in any situation. Here's another example, someone's going to say 'let's say that pension is 1,500 kuna, here's 1,500 kuna, that's a pension they have a lot of people. And what you've got going on, they're taking a third of you. You must survive with 1,000 kuna. These are your net receipts. If you had any credit, you still have an end to that misery, to that poor thing. How do you survive that? And I remember when my dad was my state inspector, he was overseeing the construction of a sub-level highway, they were constructor workers, and they didn't get paid for six months. And I asked Dad if you asked these people how they could live six months without pay. And he tells me, I didn't dare. I dared, I went among those people in front of the soup kitchen, I wondered what kind of life it was, how to live. I think the state has completely failed to turn her back on the poor citizens. I, by the way, gave a concrete amendment to the budget. No, I know, I suggested that the funds for NATO operations, mean for these global wars in the service of the elite, be rerouted to increase social benefits by 50%. I then invited colleagues from the SDP to support the proposal. You know what happened? The SDP colleagues supported it, and you HDZ gentlemen didn't want to support it then. You voted against it. You voted against it. So you'd rather say money in NATO operations than for the poor and you don't understand what kind of people are in trouble. Is it our country's priority to help people in front of the soup kitchens, people who collect bottles and people who literally survive, wonder how to make lunch, how to make lunch at home every day for their family? We eat cheaply here in the Parliament, our restaurant is freed from that constituency VAT, we have a nice reception. We're fine. But just because it's good for us doesn't mean that we should close our eyes to those who aren't doing well, and it seems to me that, unfortunately, both HDZ and SDP have basically closed their eyes to these people and forgotten them. And I wonder in what direction our society is heading, what is the future of our society, and ultimately when people voted for the European Union they will think we will live as in the EU, we will have European standards. So what standards? All the prices have gone up. What about social benefits? She hasn't changed God knows how long. So you can't live off those 800 kunas. Imagine what it's like to a mother who's a tenant with three children. What do you want her to live on? How? I spoke to a woman, she explained a paradox to me. He says it like this. He says if I get a job, my salary will be $3,000 and I'm on top. I'll only have 2,000 left. And if I don't, I have a total social income of 2,000 kuna and a certain right from the city of Zagreb, etc. It's just that no matter how you turn the radio, it's a social case you can't survive. And the question arises is whether it's the guilt in that single mother, whether it's the guilt in hundreds of thousands of our citizens, or whether it's the system. Did the legislator maybe mistake the order of priorities? Is the ones he should have put in the last place, and the ones who have the most put in the first place. I remember I had a tax debt and I had to pay for it, interest went to me. The IRS asked me if you'd pay today or tomorrow. He says tomorrow's the second amount due to interest. And he says, it's good, Mr. Pernar, that you've spoken to us, because if you didn't say it, it would have been going to work. And I think Todorovic owes the island private rent, doesn't pay the rent for years, it was a large amount. Who blocked him from the IRS, did it? No one. Well, she didn't even try to charge herself. So the country systematically big fish that have a lot of them protects, and the little people are butchers. And yet we find ourselves in a situation that what's worst that people believe is fair, people believe it has to be and believe that it can't be better, and that kind of attitude will disappear. I just don't see any bright future with the current state of consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31441	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first to appear after the replica is the esteemed colleague Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31442	Thank you. Dear colleague, right in your debate, you encouraged me to report for duty when you mentioned the vehicle. In the Roma community, the vehicle trust me is no luxury, but the need is precisely because all Roma settlements in the Republic of Croatia are just away from the city. And the vehicles in the Roma community also exist to say survival, because it's the only way and the only income they could make, exactly what you mentioned by collecting different materials from iron to plastic bottles and so on. In a joke we can always say that we cleaned Croatia out of these powerful bottles and irons, etc. But we've been cut off too, I don't know if you know it, and it's been lifted because there must be certain conditions, certain rules, certain turns must be introduced that Roma community can't accomplish, and in some ways they don't do more legally, but illegally. And they're trying to survive in every way they can. Surely there is also a model in which you could no longer receive social assistance in that second part of your exposure, etc. Also, you offered me the Czech model. How the Roma in the Czech Republic work, don't receive social assistance, they also have beautiful houses that the state has just given them. In what way? By including members of the Roma community in municipal and municipal enterprises, they have made a certain loan that they can also in some way have houses that they could pay for and do not live on welfare. So they have a solid object, not the ones that we have, I don't know if you've had the chance to go to Roma settlements that no longer look like the 21st century, but they all look about 16, 17, 18. Everything depends on the Roma settlement that Here, thank you. [[Invader Brkić: A colleague of Kajtazi, time please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31443	I thank you for your replica. Answer, dear colleague Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31444	Comrade Kajtazi, I trust you, I trust you, and I would simply say one note. You said it wasn't a luxury to have a vehicle. Look to have Ferrari's luxury. And now that the legislator is starting to assume that social cases are driving some expensive vehicles, but having Fitz, having a van, having an old caravan, is that a luxury? Is that something to take people's rights to naked survival? I think that this law is unfair and I fully agree with your proposal to change or to introduce a censorship that certain vehicles worth more than 20, 30 thousand kuna to lose the right to social benefits in such a case alone, not any vehicle. You have a vehicle that literally isn't worth anything, which is for old iron you have and such vehicles. But what it's about, whoever wrote this law, he can't understand these people because he's not in their skin, he's never been, he's never walked that way. Why? Because the laws are written by elites, written by people at the top, and in this case, that law applies to people at the bottom. And when it comes to your problem, you know what you're going to do, gentlemen, you're going to head off and say I don't care what you're talking about, and I don't care what all these people think because we're holding the media, the media will always support us, and you're the poor ones who stand up for even bigger losers than themselves. It may be a shame for you gentlemen to propose this law to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31445	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply to the replica. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31446	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pernar. Actually, let's see where you are right now, like chess, so there you are, a little bit over there by the assembly room. So, all of your big part of your debate is in agreement. You said what the situation was, but you said little about how we could change that situation except in that part of that proposal that the funds provided for NATO were to be directed. When someone says they're rich in work, ask them whose is that good old saying. We're polite company, we're not a pack of wolves. We have to take care of the most sensitive, weakest, but it's not sometimes the simplest. And this condition, I fully agree with you, it's not a normal state, it's not a normal state for people to dig through containers, people sleeping in trams, people having nothing to eat, it's not a normal state, and none of us can accept it as normal, and I don't agree with you that none of us care. We don't care much. But how do you help these people? What I disagree with you, you said voters support the repression of themselves. That's not true either. Do not underestimate and demean people yet in that part, although they are poor, although they do not have enough to exist, they have the right to vote there. I suppose you didn't think so in that context where you spoke more politically or politically that's how it turns out. But what is a paradox now? This society needs both health care and the pension system a large part of the money we don't have. And that's why these interest rates we're talking about because the previous generations are in charge of allowing these former conditions. The only thing that can help these people and what the government has to do intensively, and what we people hate these days, we're wasting our time, no debate is a waste of time, but we're wasting our time on other topics. The key topic is economy, contracts, jobs. In the Republic of Croatia, too few people work and that's the key question. If more people worked, there'd be more income and then there'd be for those sensitive groups. And all I agree with you is that the ministry needs to see a little bit, people are afraid to go to the election board to get 150 kuna there to lose to lose their social benefits, there needs to be a little bit of attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31447	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Answer, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31448	You say Mr. Sagar that more people work to make it more for the poor. So I ask you, if so few people work from where 65 billion kuna for foreign creditors? So for them, money will always be raised, if it has to be owed, if it has to be sold out, whatever it takes 65 billion kuna I don't know Raiffeisen, Erste, the World Bank, the IMF for them will be gone for these poor people, it's always scarce, etc. There was money for the hoodies to get the hoodies. And you say I'm not constructive, so I couldn't make a more constructive or simpler proposal than to take down NATO operations, to increase social benefits 50%. It was my amendment, it was a constructive proposal. Now I suggest you put 30 thousand kunas as the value of a vehicle above which the user does not have the right to social compensation, not a priori if he has any vehicle registered. What is not clear in this proposal, which is not constructive, which is not concrete? I think sometimes you use demagogy to keep people in the dark, in poverty, and in fact not in life, but this is keeping them alive. The citizens of our country are forced to live and no one cares. You say it's not their fault, ladies and gentlemen, they supported this policy that's currently being run in our country, they're the ones who said in the election, give it as much as it takes billions, and massacre us for the least things we have. So imagine that because of 10 chickens, someone takes away your social rights? Is that normal? Well, it's not. But I'm saying, the people who passed those laws never lived that life, and that's why they can't understand these people, and that's why they take their heads and hands off when they listen to what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31449	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. The next replica is a distinguished colleague of Steve Culey's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31450	Your Honor, Vice President. I don't want to talk about NATO, I don't want to talk about the Russians, although I'd rather have them weaken a little bit, but I'll read only a piece of the letters of Mladen Kale Sibenik, which writes "Social Care in Sibenik again told me that I have to get help and what legally belongs to me and my family. I'm the father of 12 children, six in the United States, six in the Republic of Sibenik. When I was told that I had to bring from the land-book department some land I own, I properly delivered to them what I inherited from my grandfather's country and my fatherland they told me that they had to make a note of it. The blockade of my father-in-law and my grandfather-in-law. I talked to the kids in America, and the kids in Sibenik said, "Dad, don't give them the land," because we're going to be nationalized, and they're going to take all the land for the help that belongs to us. Dad, that's what the South Army did to my grandfather in '46. in the year nationalised 60 thousand squares on the island of Zirje and today the country has not returned to my late children, Grg Kala, the late Stipe and his brother Stipe Kale to the late Stipe, a particle of the country is k.o. The jury, 736l/190, was held at the Municipal Court in Sibenik in '82. He was led by Judge Vishna Devčić. Here is only part of the letter, and the same army used to take away the country for its own purposes, make poverty from Croatian people and drive them across the border, but this should also be taken into account that if some grandmother had some square country or family so that it would be divided to see which income she would make from that surface so that no land was taken and entered in land books based on some wrong law that was passed in the last government and also on a 200-euro car in the data mentioned by her colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31451	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Cule for the replica. And the answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31452	Thank you, Mr. Culey, for your replica. Unfortunately, this measure, where a note is placed on the ground, brought by SDP, brought by Minister Opacic, unfortunately, brought by it. And this is sad, this letter you've read is grief, the sadness that shouts to the sky. But what is it? The point is that the HDZ party is not run by people like you who see these problems but manages an elite that is installed from the west whose goal is to take possession of Croatian peoples' assets. And you see these problems, even though you can see that these elites in HDZ are also implementing laws in the SDP that are against the people, not the people, who lead the authority, the loss of rights, which they do not want to damage. My family was taken from the same land at sea, never by the HDZ, nor by the SDP gave us a fair fee for the seized property. Now, you see, Mr. Culey, but your party, together with the SDP, is conducting that policy, and you are her representative, and you support this government and that policy. You're one of those who comes to vote, raise your hand, you're part of those quorum guards famous and handlifters that keep this system alive. I call you if you're really against that policy, don't be part of it, rebel. Tell me, this is the HDZ that Brussels has installed for us, which implements politics against the Croatian people, I don't want to be in such HDZ. Well, the easiest thing to do is just talk like God's policy and support it, raise your hand for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31453	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. We're done with all these replicas. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. I would like to thank the representatives of the proposal to the distinguished minister, Mrs Nadi Murganic, and her co-worker, Kristina Gerber Sertic. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31454	The second is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 90, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. HNS and HSU representatives' club withdrew the amendment submitted. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 115 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and no votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31455	We move to the following items of the agenda, based on an inter-party agreement, a united debate on agenda points: - Final proposal of the Employment Intermediation and Rights Act during unemployment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 86 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 91 The applicant for acts shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The materials were delivered to you. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda the motion to discuss these proposals by an urgent procedure. And in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the parent committee and the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. We received the reports at the session. Would you like to give an additional explanation? Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr Tomislav Ćorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Employment and Employment Rights Law regulates the intervention of employment, professional guidance and education in order to increase employment, insurance for unemployment, active participation, i.e. on the labour market with the aim of fostering the spatial and professional mobility of the workforce, and new employment and self-employment, resources for the activities of the Croatian Employment Service and the establishment and management of the activities of this institution. This law will respond in a good way to labour market needs and increased labour demand, and as employers showed the need for workers by 62% in 2016 compared to previous years. Effective intervention between existing offers and labour market demand as the core activity of the Employment Service will provide employers with a better and more efficient access to labour force and will lead to faster activation and inclusion of unemployed persons into the world of work. In the context of active policy and employment measures, the Institute aims to increase the employability of persons threatened by permanent unemployment or social exclusion and to encourage employers to create new jobs or preserve existing jobs. In 2015, the total number of users of active employment policy measures was 64 thousand 760 while in 2016 the figure was 70,000 728. Active employment policy measures have proved effective but need to be improved in terms of ensuring financial sustainability and measures and simplifying the administrative process in implementing these measures. The revised measures will focus on more employable groups with particular emphasis on long-term unemployed young people, and on persons with insufficient qualifications. Therefore, simplifying active employment policy measures and directing the same measures towards more employable groups will provide the necessary workforce for the economy, and will lead to faster activation and inclusion of unemployed persons into the world of work. Since available labour often lacks the necessary level of skills and expertise required by employers, it is necessary to enable the acquisition of additional competences related to jobseeking, and special attention should be paid to the activation and education of unemployed persons. Education will achieve better employability of the unemployed, which is particularly important for activities in tourism, construction, shipbuilding and information technologies. This law will redefine programmes on the basis of which the Institute will adopt and implement active employment policy measures, with a view to increasing the level of employability of unemployed persons by including in education and by obtaining work experience, training at work, encouraging employers to hire new workers and retain workers in employment, ensuring the necessary workforce for employers, and self-employment and promoting job creation. In addition, this law will remove administrative barriers for legal and physical persons who will carry out employment activities, comply with the content of the law with its name in such a way as to ensure that the rights which are exercised by a person involved in professional training for work without the establishment of a working relationship and permanent seasons, which are linked to the measure of active employment policy of the employment office, to comply with the terminology set out in the Croatian Qualifications Framework Act in the part in which the provisions on education for employment are prescribed, to shorten the period of prohibition of registration in the register of unemployed from 6 months to three months for persons not active in job search and not available for work, determine that granting support under active employment measures is not the right of an unemployed person, but the possibility of whose conditions and method of implementation lays down the Administrative Council of the Institute, so that, in the application for not to be given in the procedure of appropriate support. A specific amount of cash assistance for unemployed persons referred to by the Institute to be trained in the employer’s workplace, which training is provided for by new active employment policy measures. So it's 2620 kuna and 80 limes. To provide voluntary insurance in case of unemployment to crew members in international navigation by paying a special contribution on the basis of a contract concluded with the institution in which the long-term problem of this category of persons will be solved. Correct and detected shortcomings in certain provisions that allowed proper and effective treatment and to comply with the case law. Since the current law has been amended and complemented four times, it is proposed to adopt a new law for easier compliance and transparency. A fundamental right by an unemployed person at the end of a working relationship, i.e. to carry out an independent activity, as well as the right to cash compensation during unemployment based on insurance for unemployment. The aim is to provide material and legal protection during unemployment to those who could not influence the entry of unemployment, i.e. They became unemployed without their will or guilt. This law will establish a new way of calculating the cash compensation during unemployment which will lead to a certain increase in that same fee because the cash compensation for the first 90 days of use will be determined at 60% of the average gross salary achieved during the three-month period preceding the termination of the employment relationship. And for the remaining time of use of 30% of the average gross salary, with the highest amount of cash compensation for the first 90 days of use not being higher than 70%, and for the remaining time the use cannot be higher than 35% of the average net salary paid per employee in the legal persons of the Republic of Croatia in the previous year according to the last officially published data. The minimum amount of cash compensation may not be lower than 50% of the minimum wage amount and the reduction for contributions to compulsory insurance determined by a specific regulation. Any significant increase in the amount of cash compensation would be a passive measure in the sense that an unemployed person is not motivated by demanding job demand and acceptance, contrary to EU recommendations aimed at encouraging active, rather than passive measures. Following all of these, it is important to adopt this law by emergency procedure in order to ensure the implementation of active policy and employment measures with the rights of users and to respond to the increased demand for labour under economic growth conditions, and to comply with that Directive. When we talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act, the applicable Employment Encouragement Act regulates several aspects. A relief for the employment of unemployed people without working experience in calling for whom long-term unemployed people have been educated through the release of total salary contributions up to 2 years. Professional training for work without the establishment of a working relationship, irrespective of whether a professional exam or a working experience is established by law or by other regulation as a condition for the performance of a job of a particular interest, and employment on temporary or occasional seasonal agricultural affairs. Given the slight use of the employment relief under the applicable law of these amendments and additions, it is proposed to abolish it. According to official data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in the period from 2013 to 2016, employment relief was used on average for 400 persons per year, which is a small proportion compared to the total number of long-term unemployed and unemployed. One of the main reasons for not using this relief were the legal conditions under which the same employer could use, which were in a certain way limiting the employer as opposed to the fiscal relief for young people. The fiscal relief for young people up to 30 years of life was introduced on 1 January 2015 by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, and also refers to the release of payment of salary contributions and lasts 5 years without limiting conditions for the employer. This fiscal relief for young people from the start of the introduction until 31 December 2016 is used for 47219 young people and the average number of new users is 252 per month. Therefore, following the abolition of this relief for the employment of an unemployed young person with no working experience in calling for whom they have been educated and continue to use fiscal relief and a duration of up to five years, and for long-term unemployed persons, measures and interventions are envisaged to affect their employment in accordance with the recommendations of the EU Council on the integration of long-term unemployed persons on the labour market adopted on 15 February 2016, such as support for employment, support for education and public works. The measure of vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship is intended for young people with no working experience in acquired qualifications to gain first work experience and practical skills or conditions for passing a professional or master's examination, with a view to increasing employability and preventing long-term youth unemployment. This measure was therefore created with the aim of supporting a specific group of unemployed persons because of certain characteristics of the group. The mark or reason why a group of young people need intervention on the labour market, primarily lack of work experience, and lack of skills related to rapid adaptation to the working environment. These characteristics make the young person particularly vulnerable on the market and put it at risk of long-term unemployment and loss of acquired knowledge and skills, making the intervention for such young people even more complex later. The number of users of this measure in 2016 was 33.366 persons, of which 29,434 young people aged 15 to 29, which is 4.3% higher compared to the previous year and 20.4 more compared to 2014. Under the applicable law, no age-limit is prescribed for a person who may be involved in professional training. In order to implement the measures and use of funds under the Youth Guarantee and Youth Employment Initiative funded by the European Social Fund, this law proposes to limit the age limit to 30 years of life. This measure is implemented within the framework of the Youth Guarantee, and the target groups are defined by the EU Regulation. The European Social Fund and the European Social Fund (ERDF) are referred to persons under the age of 25. According to the International Labour Organisation and Eurostat, young workers are considered between 15 and 25 years of age. Due to the extended period of education in the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission has allowed the Republic of Croatia, along with several other Member States, to include persons in the target group of young people up to the age of 30 of the life of the Republic of Croatia and to do so. That measure was the subject of an external evaluation of the active employment policy measures in the period 2010-2013. The evaluation report characterised the measure as effective, but recommended that it should be better targeted, and kept in mind the possible negative consequences of overuse of this measure, especially when it comes to young highly educated people. In fact, the current law did not cover most of the unemployed with completed secondary education for four years, but was an emphasis on those who graduated from higher education. In view of the state of registered unemployment at the end of December 2016, the highest number of young unemployed is between 15 and 29 years of age and belongs to a group with completed secondary education 68.2% of whom 36.7% has completed a secondary school in a four-year period, while the share of graduates was 21.3%. In view of the significant share of unemployed persons with completed secondary education for four years in the total number of young unemployed, this law also proposes that they be included in vocational training without a working relationship. Professional training is scheduled for 12 to 24 months, no more than 36 months. For example, persons who have not completed the appropriate training for craftsmanship have completed an economic school and wish to train themselves professionally for a hairdresser, and who need work experience for up to 36 months as a condition for passing a master's examination, will be able to use a 24-month training measure, and for the remaining 12 months, the employer can use employment support, combining two measures of 24 months of vocational training plus 12 months of support for employment. A person involved in vocational training plus 12 months of support for employment. The person involved in vocational training exercised the right to cash compensation under the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment. Since the right to financial assistance provided by a person involved in professional training is not the right to segregate it from that law and to regulate this law during unemployment. Since the applicable law already regulates the conditions to be met by a person for inclusion in professional training, it is also appropriate to regulate that person's right to financial assistance. So far, the level of financial assistance for professional training has been determined by the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and was 2,400 kuna. This law increases the amount of cash aid to HRK 2,620,80 for 2017 as it is determined at the level of the minimum wage reduced for contributions to compulsory insurance, for the days spent on vocational training. The cost of transport during vocational training will be the obligation of the employer. According to the results of the external evaluation of active employment policy measures from 2010-2013 as well as the evaluation and experience of the participants, mentors and employers involved in the measure, it is recommended to introduce a certain financial commitment to employers for the purpose of more responsible implementation of the training programme without the establishment of a working relationship. The same conclusion on the employer's proposal also made by the working soup to redefine the active employment policy measures. By doing so, employers will have a higher level of responsibility and involvement when receiving a person for vocational training. Therefore, the person involved in this measure will continue to retain the cost of transport in accordance with the employer's contractual obligation. This law introduces the right to compensation for the costs of a professional or mastery examination in order to enable persons in vocational training to complete the training process and thus access the labour market in those interests where it is set as a condition. A person who is trained professionally for work without a working relationship cannot carry out jobs between 22 hours and 6 hours in the morning, and on Sundays, holidays or some other day of the law that is set out not to work. In this way, it is taken into account that professional training is an educational measure aimed at gaining first working experience rather than ensuring the necessary workforce for the employer. Regardless of the specific needs and nature of work, legislators must not and cannot equate the work of persons on learning with the work of regular employees and should therefore determine the daily work of these persons. This law also regulates who is considered to be a permanent season and under which conditions the right to financial assistance during extended pension insurance and the height of the same financial assistance. The right to permanent seasonal financial assistance was governed by the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment. Since a permanent season is not considered an unemployed person within the meaning of this law, the said institute should be governed by this law. So far, the method of establishing the level of monetary aid has been regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in such a way that for the first three months, it was 60% of the gross salary achieved by the permanent season during the three-month period preceding the termination of the employment relationship but could not be lower than the amount of cash compensation to which it would exercise the right to be unemployed in the status of an unemployed person. For the rest of the time, financial aid was 50% of the aid established for the first three months. This method of determining the amount of cash aid which did not limit the maximum amount resulted in a large disproportionate amount in relation to the cash compensation during unemployment and limited by the highest amount. For the first 90 days of use, this cannot be higher than 70% and for the remaining use time it cannot be higher than 35% of the average net salary paid by employees of the legal persons of the Republic of Croatia in the last year. The minimum amount of cash aid cannot be lower than 50% of the minimum wage reduced for contributions to compulsory insurance. According to the Croatian Employment Service, the average amount of money aid for the permanent season was 5565 kuna and 59 June and 6382 kuna and 59 June 2016. While the average amount of cash compensation in 2015 was 1817 kuna in 2016. It is apparent from the above data that the cost of financial assistance for the permanent season is disproportionately high and that it needs to be limited or harmonised with the amount of cash compensation during unemployment because the permanent season does not work during the extended pension insurance period. This law provides for a permanent season to exercise the right to financial assistance provided that the employer's office approves and co-finances the costs of extended pension insurance under active employment measures. The co-financing of the costs of extended pension insurance has been set as a guarantee that the employer and next season will return workers to work. However, those employers who do not wish to be co-financed by the Institute for extended pension insurance will be allowed to enter into the measure through a minimum co-financing percentage, as well as to define more flexible conditions that they must meet for co-financing of this cost as a model of current practice. With the aim of simplifying the employment of seasonal workers in agriculture and with the aim of curbing the grey economy, a simplified way of employment in temporary or occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture has been arranged, given that this work can sometimes take two, sometimes longer, but with interruptions due to weather conditions. According to the applicable law, the daily basis for the calculation of the contribution makes the sum of the average salary and the coefficient of 0,35 divided by 30 in order to increase the minimum annual salary of the seasonal worker in agriculture, this law increases the amount of the coefficient to 0.4, resulting in the minimum daily salary of the seasonal worker in agriculture for the following year being 81 kuna compared to 70,28 kuna, which has been a practice so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31457	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Mr. Coric. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31458	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Djoric. Here, I'm going to start this replica with some of the data I got. So when we talk about unemployed people over 30 who don't have a job internship, so they're people who don't have a job internship, they're 30 years old, in Virovitica-Podravska County, 118 make them with a high school of up to 3 years 58 and a high school of 4 years 60, a total of 118. And all these other VSSs, college 4, university first grader 4, professional first grader 6 and professional first grader 4. So 18. 13.24% of those highly educated in this population mean over 30 years. Data are also available that most employees of this measure were, two-thirds are actually in the public sector, only one-third in the private sector. Why am I reading this data now? There's something we can find out from that data. You mentioned the external evaluation several times. My question right now is, what exactly was the external evaluation done for? Because there are not enough workers or employees in the Croatian Employment Service who could do so, or is it such a complex process that they simply cannot do so? I guess there are people who work very hard, but these people are in contact with users every day and they know what kind of problems a measure creates before, in fact, those who might be helped. And in practice, we have a lot of problems. And if we look at a little measure, some measures simply didn't come to life because they weren't well set up. In other words, whether the system can, by a different approach, allow certain measures to be more useful to make more applications and to make more use of them. And this information certainly related to these over 30 years is worrying because it's mostly people with lower expertise.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31459	The reply to the replica by Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31460	Dear Representative Sagar, thank you very much for your rep. So, if they can only be referred, we know these data and people over 30 will be covered by a whole series of other measures that we have within the framework of active employment policy measures. As regards external evaluation, it is necessary in view of the fact that a good part of these measures is financed from the European Social Fund and then the European Commission is of course also very interested to see how they end up and what are the results of the implementation of active employment policy measures. In this context, these external evaluations shall be carried out. As for the fact that some measures have not received optimal results, we are at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System in the Croatian Employment Office absolutely aware of this and precisely this redefine of the measures that follow and which we ask you to support in the Croatian Assembly, leading to a new beginning as you have said and the idea of using exactly those measures and to the greatest extent that give good results, and that measures that give suboptimal results or do not give results to slowly exit the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31461	Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31462	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, you were a speaker for this stage. I don't think there was a need to read the law, we studied the laws well. What I expected from you is that at today's session of the Parliament on this topic which is extremely important you say something about the assessment of the state of the labour market in Croatia, the problems you see as a resolution minister and what plans you have as a minister and as a government, how you will address problems in the labour market especially with regard to young, long-term unemployed and older persons on the labour market. I also expected from you that, instead of reading the law that we have all read ourselves, you have given us some clues about which direction professional training will take, in which direction the Employment Office will go, which dynamically you intend to achieve goals, which are your goals in the labour market and which methods and what means you intend to follow these objectives. The situation in Croatia is different than it was there four years ago when we passed these laws. I expected today to talk about how professional training should be returned to where it should be, which is in high school education, in higher school education, how to stimulate employers to open up traineeships, which are measures of fiscal policy. You are an economist to God, so you know better than me how, with fiscal measures, employers, to enable them to open up traineeships to slowly and SOR and traineeships take a look at the goal of remaining people in Croatia. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31463	Thank you. Reply to the replica Tomislav Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31464	Dear Representative, thank you, Mrs. Grissom, first of all, for the replica. So all the questions you have asked are absolutely legitimate, but I should have explained here today the changes that bear the legal framework that we propose to adopt at the Croatian Parliament and in this context my presentation went in this direction. We are fully aware of the fact that the situation on the labour market is not the same as it was in 2011 or 2012. Fortunately for these numbers, the number of unemployed at this time at the Croatian Employment Service is significantly smaller. At this point, however, it is also very high and the level of unemployment in Croatia calling for all possible measures of active employment policy and overall economic policy to be used to reduce the number of unemployed, which is even more important in order to significantly increase the number of employees. Our measures are directed at exactly the categories we think are the most endangered. At this point, unfortunately 40% of the total number of unemployed in Croatia are persons aged 15-29. And in this context, we pay great attention to all of our attention to the employment of all categories, but with special emphasis on young people. Such as the SOR measure, which will focus on persons up to 29 years of age and 30 years of age, other active employment policies will also focus on other categories of long-term unemployed, especially contingents of persons over 50 years of age who are also long-term unemployed. So, you know for yourself what groups in Croatian society are involved. What will lead to a reduction in the number of unemployed, and what are our goals? Our goals were clearly presented at the beginning of this government's work. As regards the instruments of access to these objectives, all instruments of the overall economic policy, both the tax policy that started in the context of the fiscal discharge on 1.1 this year and the measures of other policies and pay policies, the increase of the minimum wage by 5 percentage points at the beginning of this year. But also the increase in salaries for public service employees So change. [[The Intruder President: Time. Excuse me.]] I'm sorry. So all of these moments, all of these instruments will just be directed in this direction to increase the number of employees. Excuse the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31465	Thank you. To participate in the debate reported, please welcome Arsen Bauk representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31466	Mr. President, Vice-President Brkic specifically stated that this was an inter-party agreement for a united debate, and therefore, in accordance with Article 233(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I ask the Rules of Procedure to allow representatives of the Clubs of Representatives or at least a representative of the SDP Club to give a longer speech than the five-minute business plan, in accordance with 233.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31467	If it takes five minutes for a united debate, then I agree. Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31468	Thank you very much. Given this observation by Mr. Bauk, I must say that no inter-party agreement has been reached because no one has called us to this inter-party agreement. And we are against the fact that a single party takes the right to agree on behalf of the entire opposition on the unification of the debate. So I would also like to ask the President of the Parliament if such inter-party agreements are reached to be called all the club representatives. We didn't get that call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31469	Representative Bunjac, next time you will have to specify the first article of the Rules of Procedure by which you are talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And on the other hand, the representatives' clubs are able to negotiate themselves, if they have most of them, they can at any time create a united debate. For participation in the debate, the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives will be registered on their behalf by representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31470	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We now have a united debate based on the agreement of individual parties, but not all. It will therefore be discussed today on employment mediation and rights during unemployment and also on encouraging employment with the final draft of the law. I believe that these days you've all received a bunch of e-mails and messages about Article 2. The Employment Act, where professional training of workers or traineeships is limited to a age limit of 30 years, is required to return that article to a situation which was 24.6.years ago. We also heard from the legislator that he thinks that the law is going in a way on the hands of the trainees because unlike the EU, the age limit from 25 shifted to 30 years, but let's say this is not just about the question of youth of one's own, otherwise, according to Roman law, the young man was up to 45 years old and he was named yuvenis, so the young man was considered to be that age, but this is actually about the issue of expertise. So, we see that there are a large number of unemployed in Croatia, and one part of these unemployed people decided either to enter a new study or to study or requalification in order to become competitive in the labour market, but after completing their schooling, he cannot take that final step, and the final step is to say that he is accessing a professional examination because he is not worthy of the measures of vocational training, which brings one professional worker into a subordinate position according to another basis of his age. So I call on the legislator to change this article of the law and restore the situation to the way it was, which means that professional training can be done by any citizen regardless of his age. We think that in this way all people will get an equal chance to get a job and compete on the labour market, and it is especially difficult sometimes for people who entered some middle-aged years to get a job. A lot of them once they lose their jobs, they can never get it again. As far as this second law is concerned, there is one disputed place in Article 10 where it says that an unemployed person is not considered to be a member of the cooperative. So whoever is a member of the cooperative is not an unemployed person and can therefore exercise no rights on that basis, and is deleted from the employment office records, and that provision is in direct conflict with the Cooperatives Act adopted in 2013 which explicitly provides for the following. "1 The cooperative may carry out activities with a view to obtaining profits or 2 The cooperative may carry out activities in order to meet the needs of its members without the intention of obtaining profits", so it may be social cooperatives, consumer cooperatives, housing cooperatives, local community cooperatives, etc. "In the event that it is wrong to assume that the membership of the cooperative in any case results in profit or monetary income, the withdrawal of the status of an unemployed person to the members of the cooperative constitutes a violation of the constitutional right of citizens to freedom of association, guaranteed in Article 43. The Constitution of the So I'm going to repeat it again under the Cooperatives Act, one part of the cooperatives actually most cooperatives about 85% of cooperatives, don't make any profits, which means there's no employees in them. And now someone who is a member of the cooperative, and I remind you that there are even school cooperatives, will lose all rights even though their membership in the cooperative has not achieved any material or financial gain. Here's another small example concrete, you have a case now being set up by an ethical bank that will operate on the principle of cooperative where you will become shareholders, today-to-morrow you can get an honest loan. The base stake in that ethical bank is 2500 kuna. And if, by chance, a young man or a citizen pays those 2,500 kunas and becomes an Ethics Bank shareholder, he will automatically be deleted from the employment office records, which means he will lose all the rights that come into it. So, I'd like to, too, so he's gonna lose, what's he gonna lose? It will also lose the cost of education and lose the cost of training and financial assistance during extended insurance. How Would We Understand Better? In order to further understand the illogical nature of this provision, it should be said that if you own a stake in companies less than 25% of the profits they make, you do not lose the right of an unemployed person. [[Incursion President: Representatives, I would like to ask for order in the assembly.]] So being a member of a cooperative, that right is lost, but with membership in companies, that right remains. Well, it's obvious there's an illogicality. In addition, in cooperatives, it is often not only profit-making but it helps socially endangered categories of citizens, say disabled people or children, and then basically people volunteer and therefore come with this provision of the law into one completely unsuitable position, as I said in the opposite. Therefore, the Living Wall will propose in its amendment eradicating the provisions that are a member or perform a certain function in the cooperative as a reason for the loss of the right during unemployment, which would apply the criteria for the level of the monthly reception to the members of the cooperative. Therefore, a member of the cooperative may lose his rights but only if he earns a profit from it, otherwise he does not. I would also like to say that there is an anacronism here, and it consists of most of the people of the cooperative experiencing it in a peorative sense, about the cooperatives were at a time of Stalinist collectiveization, so it's something very bad, it needs to be destroyed, suppressed, erased from memory. But cooperatives are one of the world's most modern trends. In the Scandinavian countries or, for example, in Switzerland, Italy is more than 40% of the population involved in cooperatives and these cooperatives have a very positive impact on the economy itself and not just on society. Among other things, the United Nations declared 2012 an international year of cooperatives. It is in many studies involving agriculture and sustainable development that cooperatives are given a key place, a crucial place for one so-called positive, long-term future of the entire continent and the whole world. So that's our brief consideration of this topic. We propose an amendment to Article 2 in this Employment and Change Act of Article 10, which we have submitted to the amendment that membership in the cooperative is therefore not considered to be a reason why someone loses the rights they have during their unemployment but to lose those rights only in case someone achieves a monthly income financially, as we do not know some others, in some other ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31471	The HDZ representative's club has applied for participation in the debate. In their name, Blaženko Boban will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31472	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with distinguished associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. How we've united these two points let's first talk about this P.Z. 89 a few words. The Act on Support for Preserve Jobs was passed at a session of the Croatian Parliament held on 15 July '14. And this was like an intervention measure in the given circumstances of the economic crisis and in order to keep workers in employment during the temporary difficulties in business and the fall in the business activities of employers. Unfortunately, these measures, along with having had a good intensity, have not shown themselves and are mainly not good quality in the activities of the processing industry, trade and construction industry. Because only 321 workers in 18 employers were included in the period from the date of entry, so on 7 August of '14 until the end of 2016 in support of full-time deprivation. 11 workers in two employers in '14, 228 workers in 8 employers in '15 and 82 workers in 8 employers in '16, which is not in line with the planned number of persons involved and certainly not expected to be realised. I repeat again, the intensity was good but unfortunately the application was not good. Whether due to the implementing measures or any other difficult circumstances during that period, I don't know. It should also be pointed out that the Employment Support Act provided for a decision on the application for support in the administrative procedure on the basis of a preliminary opinion. We discuss, we discuss. I'm talking about why these laws now. In short, however, the measures taken at that time. Position, proposal for understanding to adopt, show what is the position of young people on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. Youth unemployment is a major economic and social problem. The government will focus its attention on the activation and education of young and long-term unemployed people. Youth unemployment creates difficulties not only for unemployed individuals but for society as a whole. In the period from eleven to sixteen years, the number of registered young people varied. The highest number of young unemployed were reported at 13 when an average of 113 thousand and 200 were reported during the year, while the least unemployed young people were recorded at sixteen when 68541 people were reported on average. So at eleven there were 98 and a half thousand, something a little bit more, twelve hundred and thirty-seven thousand, thirteen-one hundred thirteen and slightly more, fourteen thousand and forty-four thousand and forty-eight thousand, fifteen-five thousand and sixteen-six thousand. I hope that's gonna go down eventually. So this law is indeed an intensities of a little bit more history of the law, even in half of 2010 in public among young people and all those who were interested were very often referred to by Mrsic's law. Let's demystify it. So, for the first time, the initial law on this subject was passed in mid-2010. His implementation was indeed three times slow at first, but we can't say in any way that it was Mrsic's law. In 2010 already under that law, the law at the time was 448 of all activities, which is true but already in 2011 there were 4760 employees. I must say, a new law was passed on May 31st, 2012. So by then, it's been around a little bit less than 10,000 young people. It should also show something about the financial indicators of this law that the government is predicting. In fact, young people who have graduated from college and have so far been the cornerstone of this active law mostly took care of them in professional training without a working relationship. This new measure in the new law also takes care of young people with secondary four - year - old education, so that the number of these young people will increase by nearly 17,000 compared to what we had with the law so far. The active employment policy measures and funding beneficiaries from the fourteenth to the sixteenth year are also with a budget plan for the seventeenth budget, with an active policy of 17th and 498 thousand 723 and some more kuna, which is 34.27% compared to 2016 and 26.17%, respectively, compared to 2015 and 55.22% compared to the fourteenth year. The increase is the most pronounced in support of training for employment and self-employment, and in the education of jobless means for public work measures is reduced, while the funds for vocational training measures for work without working relationship remain approximately at the same level as in 2016 and are targeted at the target group of young people up to 30 years. In our opening statement, we heard why up to 30 years ago. I must stress that in the fourteenth year, a total of 56632 people were included, of which 28 340 new users were newly involved, for which 965,000 were paid. The largest number of users, millions of apologies. The largest number of users is included in the professional training measure for work without working relationship, a total of 28000, and the least users are included in the support measure to perfect a total of 148. In the 15th year, 64773 people were included, of which 41590 new users were newly involved, for which a billion and 187 million kuna were paid, which is 23.3% more funds than in the 14th year. And the largest number of users is included in the professional training measure for work without a working relationship, a total of 32490 and the least users included in the support measure to preserve jobs in total of 235. In 2016, a total of 70720 people were included, of which 37700 new users were newly involved, for which a billion and 116 million kuna were paid, which is 6.03% less than the 15th year. And the majority of users are included in the professional training measure for work without a working relationship, i.e. a total of 33366. So the law in any case is commendable. We of HDZ, of course, will support the law but also appeal to what is very important, and that is the enforcement measures of the law. In some segments, this law has been ok. and in the implementation sense. Unfortunately, however, we know the biggest problem from the field very well when local administrations and public companies would send the legislation, i.e. approval based on public procurement in the ministry, was known to wait three to four months for consent from the youth employment ministry. This is inadmissible, that is, what is not good and what in the implementing measures really needs to be well prescribed to be fully clear within which time, based on a public tender and the basis of which the employer, whether it is a public institution, a local community or a private community, sends to the ministry for an answer. It is also necessary to define in implementing measures crystallinely clear relations related to the transport of persons and persons employed in vocational training. You can't leave it as agreed as anyone on the ground will. This must indeed be in Zagreb, both Istria, Sinj, Solin, and Dubrovnik prescribed the same thing. If he's gonna be on the employer's burden, I couldn't agree more. Also in implementing measures, and indications are made through the law that professional training should be paid by the state. Naima, a student, or one year, performs professional training without establishing a working relationship, and unfortunately in some cases the employer does not pay for the professional exam, the man does not have a professional exam and he remains without a professional exam. This is inadmissible, it must also be regulated by law and there should also be a clear criterion in the entire Republic of Croatia. In the hope that the implementing measures will indeed be in line with all segments of this law in a positive sense, I hope that at last young people with secondary education, four years of education will have the same criteria as those with higher education, but even more so in the whole territory of the territorial Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31473	The replica was first reported by representative Ivana Ninčević - Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31474	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Boban, I agree with you that this measure has been misused, but there is no reason to continue to use it. For five years, I have been facing active employment policy measures, especially this measure of job conservation in the last three years where I have personally been in a situation where the entrepreneur is, so I am talking about small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to realize this measure and it was simply impossible. What I don't understand is how it's possible that no one has wondered how a measure called keeping jobs in the middle of a crisis doesn't survive. And I think there's a problem with this whole measure. So it's not the intention of measure, it's phenomenal. The problem is the conditions of this measure, so simply the conditions were not put forward in a way that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs could use them. Now we can discuss it by tomorrow whether it is a matter of terms or whether the measure has been done for large enterprises or simply a matter of a three-way system that doesn't really know what it is that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31475	Replication response, Agent Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31476	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Members of Ivana, that is why it is necessary to abolish this because from 7 August 2014 to the end of 2016 only 321 workers have taken advantage of this measure and it is also questionable for their employers. I absolutely agree with you, this is obviously about only eight employers in the entire Republic of Croatia, which is really inadmissible and what is really not obvious within the law itself was not so much flexibility that this could refer to the wider circle and employers, and finally those people who should have kept their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31477	Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31478	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Boban called this measure what it's called, but does it matter what the measure is called, what the law is called, or does it matter that young people get a job? In your discussion, you have not looked back on how to provide young people with a well-paid, stable job in Croatia. How to ensure that young people receive contracts for an indefinite period of time instead of a contract. We showed it because a young man after professional training can get a contract at an indefinite time, and the employer has been released gross two over five years and over 50,000 young people have got a job. That's what we need to talk about. It doesn't matter what the law is called, it doesn't matter how the law works, it matters that it is successful, and this law is successful, the measure is successful, and it started earlier, but the measure just developed when we expanded it from the public sector and the state sector where there was no employment on the private sector. And in the private sector 70% of young people who have finished SOR stay with the employer to continue to work and get a contract indefinitely and that is what we need to talk about. We don't need to talk about who started what's-his-name, which is the first, who's the second, it's important that young people get jobs. So your discussion has made me extremely disappointed because you obviously don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31479	Replication response, Agent Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31480	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Whether it's disappointing or not, it's probably your problem, and it's called Mrssic's law that's what you've been promoting yourself. You've repeated it a hundred times in front of the media, and we're passing this law, and then it turns out to be Mrsic's law. And I just wanted to point out that this law was first passed in mid-2010 and that by the time you first passed the law that really told the lady and the speaker, the law was ennobled, adopted on 31 May 2012, through the measure already passed, in the very initial beginning of more than 10 thousand young people in the Republic of Croatia. In the second part of your replica, I absolutely agree that we should all be employed. But now we're gonna fix one more thing that you've been talking about here for three days. You often talk about very successful results of evolution and praise the data of almost 60% of the success of SOR which has nothing to do with the truth and you are also aware of it. The real truth is that the evaluation showed that only 12% of professional training students were employed as the direct effect of SOR, which means that 48% of the other people would be employed without measures and without the measures you were talking about. I'd like it the same way, and I'd be happy if it was much more. I'm afraid not. And that 12, I'm now saying this from the experience work mostly happened in the public sector and not even in the private employers at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31481	Representative Miro Bulj, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31482	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Boban, you have made it quite clear whether this is the 2010 law or is Mrsicev, then it is less important that it is called the Law of Jadranka Kosor or Mrsic but you have noticed that the problem is in implementation. As far as they gave you the results, those laws, and you've noticed the same thing about unemployment, so you've been counting, already lately, that we've had a drop in unemployment, which is good. But the problem is that we don't have a proportional growth of employees. Now, where's the problem? The problem is that, after all these laws, our young people are mostly young on a one-way bus to foreign states, mostly foreign states. And with all the families. It is a key problem, not whether it is called Mrsicev or Kosor's law. And it's very simple, to see when we look at a demographic image of all parts of the Republic and mostly undeveloped areas, where I come from. So the key problem is what's not a good perception of unemployment decline creates as a decline in unemployment in recent years, it's not true because it's not a proportional growth in employment. So they need laws that will encourage businessmen in areas mostly undeveloped areas where we have burned ground, empty spaces. Only then will we have a chance to develop a business in this area and be competitive in this area, not that our young people go from these parts to Zagreb and that is lucky if they come to Zagreb, but unfortunately they go to third countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31483	Replication response, Agent Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31484	Yeah, you're right, buddy Bull, 'cause we got here a plate of young people working in the '11s to '16, then '11. It was 87,000, I'm going to talk to the frame, '12, 84 thousand young, '13, 102,000 young, '14, 107 thousand, '15, 109, and '16, unfortunately 102,000 young. So even the number of employees doesn't grow, and it's probably going our young people across the border, which is not good. But I was talking about implementing measures. Why implementing measures? I asked myself on many occasions the question of how could these young people not go to private employers for vocational training? Then I came to the conclusion that a private employer would open a tender at a time when he too needed personnel because of some volume of work or I don't know, what kind of process of production, and then send this solution to the ministry and the ministry is waiting for 3 or 4 months to approve it so that these young people would start doing their professional training. And he then, and seven, here's a colleague of Ivana's says, she had a case and seven months of even the ministry until she approves it. And that is why I have now appealed to the very end in the hope that the implementing measures of these laws will be effective, balanced, it is a very high-quality law and will help many young people, it was not bad either, but the implementing measures and practices that took place on the ground itself were disastrous and if this practice and this law were to be done and I will also say that it is not good because it cannot wait 7 months for the ministry's consent. A total of 12 months lasts the entire professional training of young people. And not to say differentiated measures about transportation and of all other segments within that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31485	Thank you. Representative Josip Djakic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31486	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Dear Boban, you have explained everything well about these laws that are ahead of us, but you should have pointed out why it goes into redefining and amending these laws, given that so far there have been forest measures which have been unrecognizable and ineffective, and now through these laws they come down to nine measures that are active, which will certainly be redefined like this, aimed at those groups that are more employable, which are long-term waiting for work, which are with lower professional training and qualification. And we believe that that's how we're going to achieve those effects that aim and aim, which is to increase the level of employability through these laws, through these measures. Similarly, the newspapers that have been put in place and so far have not been able to provide voluntary insurance in case of employability to ship crew members in international navigation to pay a special contribution on the basis of a contract concluded with the institution in which the long-term problem of this category of persons will be solved. Through all these 9 measures that are strictly described and which are targeted towards better, better quality and faster resolution of accumulated problems, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Employment, as well as the Employment Service through its advisers, will enable the best efficiency of these laws and not until now such a forest of regulations in which no one could manage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31487	Replication response, Agent Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31488	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, yes you are right. And otherwise, the intensity of all laws should be as simple as possible, the more understandable according to the wider layer of the citizenship of our country because otherwise complicated laws, and the unclear the fewer citizens are the greater danger to any other dishonest actions. I'm saying this generally. But these nine measures are special to me, I was really particularly encouraged by the measure that was introduced to high school students at four years of high school education are now involved. Frankly, a man with a high school high school high school and an economic direction is, unfortunately, in a hopeless employment situation. If this segment is also not covered by it it is indeed almost and on the edge could be said of this society. So I am particularly grateful to the ministry for including them in these measures, and that is the number 24845 of them, which will very, very much help you. And here when I mentioned in the implementing measures, and I will show another measure that has made it very complicated by a law that has so far been in force, which is not regulation of mentorship or different regulation of mentoring in other people or employers and in the public sector. Each one worked in his own way, and he did not in any way have a regulator and the way in which he would perform the role of mentor to that extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31489	Representative Sabina Vosovac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31490	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Boban, I don't know why you're so upset with the fact that at the time of my colleague Miranda Mrsic's ministry, in fact, the law that was passed in 2010 somehow began to live and I'm going to say it developed well in that life. I think that everything that needs to be supported, should continue and should be acknowledged that, yes, this is one area and this ministry, the Ministry of Labour has actually managed to take advantage of all the advantages that has brought us among other things to EU membership. And that we've actually made very skillful assumptions that we're taking, so I'm going to say about 132.54 million euros that are available to us in the financial perspective from 2014 to 2020. What we certainly need to welcome is the fact that only in 2015 the total users of the active employment policy measures are, meaning 64760. Newly included in this part of 41595, which is as much as 46.8% more involved in these active employment measures compared to 2014. The SOR is, of course, the most echoed of all these measures, and I am saddened by what the age limit is reduced, which is wrongly presented that the professional training fee without the establishment of a working relationship will increase by around 200 kuna, and on the other hand, the costs of transportation that in this case fall on the employer who can or does not have to pay it probably amount to more than just an increase of these 200 kunas as it is presented as increasing fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31491	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31492	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, if you have listened carefully to the debate, I did not speak negatively of the law but of the implementing measures of this law with examples from the field. Forgive me for giving examples from the field I do not give the right to you, or to former Minister Mr. Mrsić, to know exactly how it was implicated on the ground itself. You've been told here by some other men from the field that after seven months, the ministry's consent was awaited.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31493	.../Intruder President: I ask you to refrain from commenting./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31494	I'm asking you to finish. I'll tell you from the field seven months later. Here's what the former minister confirmed in 2016. So it's been waiting for the fifteenth and fourteenth. So the law's intensity was positive. Implementing measures have not been very good and we should all ask why private entrepreneurs have no longer taken part in these measures. And the ratio of private entrepreneurs and the public sector is 90 percent versus 7.8%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31495	Representative Marija Jelkovac responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31496	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Boban, I agree with your debate, especially with what you have pointed out that there have been certain failures in implementing the very measure of vocational training without establishing a working relationship...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31497	.../Intruder President: Representatives and MPs would like you to refrain from arguing./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31498	I would also point out and believe that the implementing measures will now, following this law, take care to correct the practice so far, that persons who are admitted to vocational training without the establishment of a working relationship should only be admitted to, in fact, be admitted only to those jobs where, as a condition in the systematisation, only one year of employment is prescribed. So everywhere there, it's especially important in local and regional self-government units and state services. Where, under the systematization, two or more years of employment as a condition for a person could not, under these conditions, be admitted to professional training, which I consider to be unwarranted. In particular, in local and regional self-government units, it is prescribed for which jobs as long as there must be a job experience, and therefore it is not possible to change it. I think it is unwarranted when receiving persons on vocational training to demand that they meet such conditions because they are not accepted in a working relationship. So the only thing that matters is that they meet, that is, to take care of the profession they're looking for for that workplace so that they can be trained in their profession for which they've been educated. So here I point out that it was a problem and that I certainly believe that this problem will be corrected in the future and there will be no such obstacles. And as far as transportation is concerned, I'm really glad that this is how it's evened out that everyone in a unique way has the right to transport. Because it's going to be a commitment now. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31499	Agent Boban's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31500	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, indeed, and this is one of the problems that awaits this ministry to regulate after a year and a professional examination to welcome a condition there for two or three years of employment. Indeed, this is a problem, and it needs to be harmonised legally in some segments of the law and in relation to some jobs. You can't talk about all the jobs. As far as transportation is concerned, I am glad that in some ways this has been transferred to the employer or to the one who will hire. For a reason, you know many employers and public institutions, and we in the local communities would eventually receive people for professional training without any obligation, without going to a financial indicator as the obligations of the local community. And then basically these young people are here for a year, they pass a professional exam, and they stay because there's no need for them anymore, they stay somewhere on the street. Now that the employer assumes the obligation at least enough to pay for the transport he will surely make sure that the quality person who has been through professional training keeps to himself at certain jobs where they are needed within the systemization. This is very important, that even the employer feels at least one very small part, and at the ministry, yes, I will repeat once again that in the implementing measures it prescribes exactly how much it amounts and in which areas for how much money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31501	Representative Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31502	Thank you very much. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow Boban, you have actually cited all the advantages of these changes and we see that in that forest regulations as we have heard there are both ambiguities and certain indefinities, and of course if you are going in the direction of introducing clear criteria then it is certainly positive and commendable. You mentioned two things as positive, and I agree with that. First, it's a sort of cost-of-experience and master's test. What's this about? Well, I'd like to do it one more time if you can mention it because it's very important that people who are in vocational training finish this training process, but what's important is to say. This person shall be trained to work without having a working relationship and shall not be able to carry out work between 22 hours and 6 hours in the morning and on Sundays, holidays or any other working day. Why? Because in this way it is now taken into account that professional training is an educational measure aimed at, let’s say the acquisition of first work experience, not the provision of the necessary workforce to the employer. And that's very important, it may sound like it may have been promoted, but to me, it's important, and to our citizens. It is also important to say once again that the category of permanent season has been arranged because the permanent season was not considered an unemployed person under the current law, but it will now be arranged under this law and we will see it and the category of financial assistance accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31503	Agent Boban's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31504	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, three things you have touched, that I am not here through my debate about the seasons, and through the debate there will still be some things shown and seen here, but indeed this measure is also very quality and good because so far you have had the situation unfortunately, and I come from that area and I know very well that a man who works in summer tourism mainly refers to the sphere of tourism, works less in summer tourism than in the winter period of the grant he receives from the state of support. It's sad and embarrassing. And that's why I'm pleased with him and that segment is particularly regulated. As for the expert exam, it's been so far, I'm going to repeat again here for my colleagues on the right, and so far the laws have had a good intensity. In the implementing measures, they were not brought to the end, and therefore there was uncertainty for the moment, so I will repeat it again for the public's sake. The professional exam of a person ends a year of work and now no one knows who will pay him the expert exam, whether he himself, whether the employer, whether the state. And the various situations you have in the field, someone could have paid, someone might not have paid. And today it's by this law completely clear the state will pay for the expert exam. And as for the third, I mean the ride, that's what I said to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31505	Representative Majda Buric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31506	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Boban. You said these two laws should be praised and I agree with you, since the ultimate goal and the expected outcome of these two laws is just to increase the employment rate from 58% to 68%, and also to reduce the unemployment rate by 10%. What is particularly important to highlight and underline and praise is the budget for active policy measures in 2017, which is about a billion and a half kuna, which is an increase of 55.22% compared to 2014. So compared to the time of Mr Mrsic's ministry, according to Mrs. Glasovac, it is an increase by more by half. In addition, I believe that praise should be given to both the reduction and elimination of passive measures and the potential of active measures, it should be stressed once more that the unemployment benefits are growing, for the compensation for professional training of workers is growing from 2,400 to 2,620 and that these are all extremely good measures. What should also be commended is the rounding of the whole process with a mastery, or expert exam and laying it down, and the overall focus of the ministry on the development of competences but also on the systematicity that I find extremely important and commendable. We all know that the largest number of young unemployed people was recorded in 2013 when it was 113 thousand 200 young people, while the smallest youth unemployment was recorded in 2016 when it was reported on average Can I finish? [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31507	Agent Boban, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31508	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'll finish, the number of young people employed in the '11s, '16s, there you stopped, '13s there were 102 thousand 526 and '16s 102, 861. This is not proportionate, unfortunately, I have to say the number of unemployed young people compared to '13 and '16, and that is an obvious indication that a good part of the youth unfortunately moved out of the Republic of Croatia during this period or for some other reason is not being seen as unemployed or as employees. Here, therefore, as regards these financial indicators and the increase in financial resources in the budget speak for themselves to this extent to a number of other segments. Therefore, I sincerely hope that the young Republic of Croatia will, in particular, welcome once more the students and economists with medium professional training and their time has come and those of these measures will be able to be included in the training measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31509	Representative Ljubica Lukačić, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31510	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Boban, you pointed out in your discussion of transportation and many colleagues have already mentioned it. I'll just say it's my opinion that it's extremely good that transport now becomes a contractual obligation of the employer because so far it's been that people haven't been getting, often they haven't been getting paid transportation. Private employers often did not pay it, and many employers could not decide which amount of transport would be paid because some in collective agreements have different transports. Some write that they pay for the most favourable transportation for the employer, and then many do not know what is the most favourable transportation for the employer. Do that bus ride, do that train ride or some other ride. Now it will be the same for all, so where public city transport will exist will be paid public city transport and where it will not be 0.75 kuna per km and all those who will operate on this scale will have equal paid transportation. I think this is very good, and here's what I wanted to add to what you've already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31511	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, this topic will be discussed by MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31512	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have two laws that are extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, extremely important for the social partners. I would remind myself that the Government has not acted in accordance with the Agreement establishing an Economic Social Council and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Economic Social Council where Articles 10 and 11 clearly state that the Economic Social Council is monitoring the situation in the field of employment of pension and health insurance and labour market coordination. And that's what's wrong with these laws. The laws that were passed before are consistent with the social partners, here the social partners have not had a chance to say a word. And it's wrong. Therefore, we will demand that these laws go into regular procedure, that a meeting be made with the social partners, that the social dialogue that you have accused us of missing during the SDP government be done and done as it should be. And it was illusory here in the discussions that these laws will increase employment, these laws will not increase employment, these laws create only a prerequisite that a young man can learn into the labour market so that he can gain experience and that, based on that experience, he can compete and get a job. I was therefore sorry that the Minister who is an economist, basically his profession, had nothing to say about how to create jobs in Croatia. Let's not, and the time we passed these laws we made clear that these laws would not create jobs, that jobs would open up other measures, but this would help young people enter the labour market. These laws should not only be seen as mere letters on paper but should be viewed through problems that need to be solved and solved in the Republic of Croatia, one of the problems is youth unemployment and we all talk about it but nobody today has said the causes of youth unemployment in Croatia. First of all, inadequate concern for young people and their problems is not only about unemployment but also about other problems they face in the labour market. We have inadequate education and labour market policies that should encourage young people to gain appropriate experience before completing education. In fact, employers are mostly looking for people with experience, and young people could not get it before they finished education. Therefore, the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework was also adopted to help young people join the labour market. That's why, as we started, we launched a curriculative reform that HDZ and the HDZ and MOST government had stopped. Because one of the objectives of the curricula reform was to connect the labour market and that young people could enter the labour market immediately after leaving education and compete for a job. On the other hand, we also have the lack of understanding of employers about all the benefits that young people have as a workforce. In fact, young people are adaptable, prone to perfecting and advancement, bringing new ideas, open to new technologies and skills. We are insufficiently encouraging their vertical and horizontal and geographical mobility. A young workforce is used for low budget jobs and what is extremely important is to detimise their early entry into the labour market. Here I would also point out the abuse of student work for jobs in which he works cannot gain experience for the profession in which he is educated. These are all problems that should have been dealt with in part by these laws. We don't see it in these laws, nor did it seem to be the intensity of doing it. What we have seen in the past 12 months of the former government and in these three months is systematic concern for young people. In 2016, over 80,000 young people left Croatia. An infamous record in one year. In 2016, employment measures were abolished, and we could see that no measures were taken that could help the labour market. These are all the measures that were before. Measures to encourage youth employment have been abolished, and they should have been expanded and completed if the government cared. Curricular reform has been interrupted, and this is the basis for a better position in the labour market. The measures to ensure their security employment have not been improved. The basis for improving youth is their stable working relationship that will encourage employers to invest in their additional acquisition of knowledge and skills. Gentlemen of the HDZ, that's what's important when we talk about these laws. Opening stable jobs, opening places that are important for young people to stay in Croatia. And that Mr. Djakic, we did it if you don't know or you don't remember that we brought a measure that allows employers that if they give an indefinite contract to a person under 30 years of age, they will be released from gross two in five years. And that's the measure that exactly targets young people. Both the SOR and the measure left part of the youth in Croatia not to go to other EU countries. It has also done nothing to reduce the number of contracts to a certain time. This measure we implemented was a measure, which showed that the number of contracts on working hours could be reduced, contracts on certain working hours. And that was seen in the statistics of the Employment Service. For the first time in the youth group, we had a slight increase in the contract indefinitely, although most of the contracts are for a certain time. So with these measures should have continued, we should have heard it today and had before us to discuss it, not to discuss which measure is more successful, whose measure, who started it first, who did what he did. Because the technical training measure that was the measure at the time of the crisis was to be further upgraded. And if she's as unsuccessful as Agent Boban said, so what are you extending her to high school education now? What's your goal? This is the goal that I, from the minister's explanation, have not seen except that in such a way a good statistic is made to reduce the number of unemployed young people in that group that is very complicated and is not so simple. What about our senior citizens who are at the Employment Service who have no chance of entering the labour market? The employer leads young people, and why would he hire older people? We've proposed and left the former government, I think it's still in the Ministry of Labour and the pension system to go into a 50+ guarantee. We have a guarantee for young people who try to keep young people in Croatia, give them a start and give them the opportunity to work. What about older people? What we let them wait for is a pension at the Employment Service that will be minimal and miserable. Therefore, a 50+ guarantee should be launched which is very simple. The employer will be, therefore, one fiscal measure, horizontal, is not an unauthorised support that says: “A employer who gives an elderly person over 50 years of an indefinite contract will be released from gross for two years as long as that person needs a condition for retirement.” Very simply, employers are acceptable. However, neither Oreshkovic's government nor Plenkovic's government has said a single word about it. With these proposals, HDZ and MOST have made it clear to young people, I hope that MOST will not support these laws... perhaps Hlebinac so I expect that all those e-mails that arrive these days and your addresses of young people who will lose their chance to get jobs in Croatia and go to EU countries or elsewhere because of this law. They made it clear to young people that young people and their problems do not matter to them. And that's what the taste of these laws is. These are laws that do not respect current problems, which are going to make it impossible for young people to approach measures. She was in full swing in 2015, then in 2016 when Minister Šikić was Minister of Labour and Pension System, there was no Mr Boban, then it was seven months when contracts for professional training were not approved. And why is that? Because there was no money. We warned in 2016, we also warn now in 2017 that there is no money in the budget to finance those who write to you today, and these are those who are above 30 years of life, these are those who are weaker material conditions, which is because you now transfer the costs of times to the employer. Do you know what you're doing? That's what was the problem, the problem is that you don't understand professional training in the sense in which you understand. Disabling a young man over 30 years of age to enter a professional training makes it impossible for him to enter the labour market and will seek his chance outside Croatia. The minister said there were other measures, but they existed before, so young people couldn't find a job by these measures. Therefore, let us give them the measure that is most effective, and that measure is professional training. The transport, the transport was solved in the most honest way it could have been. Real cost of coming to work is recognised, and we have financed it, not from EU funds, but from the funds of our budget. And it doesn't matter whether you're in Babina Greda or you're in Zagreb and one and the other, you've had a chance to get a ride and you can come to the workplace and you can participate and work and get that year's work experience. Now it is said that, the employer will now be more responsible because he will pay for the transport. Well, gentlemen won't pay for the ride, you'll put him in a contract, and what if he doesn't get paid for the ride, what's that young man doing? You're complaining? Okay, the second day after that will be the termination of the training contract for any reason. And he can break up on one side and on the other without asking why he's breaking up. Or worse, the employer pays those 500 kunas, but then asks the young person who is on vocational training to pay back those 500 kunas, so that then 2,620 cash benefits will not be but will be 2,220, and there is no reason why we cannot and should not finance it through the state budget because the young man who is in professional training is signing a contract with the HZZ does not sign with the employer and there is a catch. And he has the right to transport costs as we charge for civil servants and tenants, and it was very easy to resolve by a decision of the board of directors, everyone was getting a ride that was a little bit more to them. We've given people a chance to come and get opportunities to have professional training. These laws make two discriminations, one by age, one by material condition, if one who cannot afford a thousand kunas for transport costs we have and such costs simply will not be able to do so unless his parents can participate, will not be able to benefit from the measure. We're making it impossible for the poorest to reach that extent. You're extending the measure to high school education which is nonsense which is non plus ultra. High school education has no need for professional training, but one question, a graduate high school student is not an occupation, high school students have no interest, they need to be trained for the labour market. What are we going to train them for? Don't do that. What about trade schools? We are now going to enable employers to make a hard-earned cashiers of 3,400 or 3,800 kuna and now move and put young merchants who will work for 2,620. Don't work gentlemen, Minister, I beg you. We, when we passed that law in 2012, did not want to go to high school education that did not have a final exam. Don't do that, I'm begging you from this pay phone because of those young people who are going to end up in chains, working on shelves. And what you said wasn't going to work from 22 in the evening to 6 in the morning, hang the cat on the tail because it simply won't be able to control itself, nor will the young man say that he doesn't want to. And the constant season, to tell the lady and to make it clear to her, the permanent season isn't an unemployed person. Permanent season is a working person who receives compensation from the office for the months when he does not work, and the employer pays pension and health benefits. We are a tourist country, permanent seasons are the ones that are core business because of bartenders, chefs, waiters, people are coming back to some tourist facilities. And with what we're doing right now, we're totally equating with another, with other unemployed people. I note again, those gentlemen, they are not, Ministers they are not unemployed persons. And this is also seen by the banks you know that the Rigids accepted permanent season contracts as a contract on which to lend him credit. With what you're doing right now, you're tearing that measure apart because it seems to be something high. Well, gentlemen, these are the people who bloodyly earned that money, who worked six days a week for 12 hours. And they're not, so that's not a waste of funds. And the state can repay them to stay in Croatia and continue to work in the company. Don't do that either. Therefore, the SDP Club will make amendments to these laws and, in particular, one request to all of you, that what is provided for in the Law on the raising of the cash compensation to take a step forward and that persons who are on the employment office, who are at the poverty line, whoever was not at the employment office without funds or with very low funds, are aware of what it looks like. What the government is proposing now is shameless, an increase of 10, 20 kuna, the crisis has passed, the prime minister said the crisis is gone, our GDP is growing, our funds are growing. We out of our salaries out of 0.5 for employment, so for the time when we're unemployed, more than 2 billion in the budget are collected. Let's raise that fee. The SDP proposal is 80% gross salary in the first 90 days and 50% for the other period. And this is a measure aimed at those who are the most vulnerable in the labour market. But I believe that these words of mine will unfortunately not come upon fertile soil and HDZ and all those who vote for these laws will be responsible for what will happen on the labour market to deliver young people to the trade chains to work for 2400 kuna. It's not fair, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31513	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31514	My friend Mrs., it's all your fault. You say and I would agree with you, these are just measures, these are measures for the unemployed, and every measure has good things and bad ones. You have also cited the reasons why today we have this number of unemployed, because of the young people who are leaving, who are running away. Well, here, for example. One of the reasons is that when money from European funds intended for the OPG, for agricultural economies ends up in sister's OPGs of various tycoons, 3, 4 or 5 and so 2 billion kunas, you were then a minister and you can explain to me how this could have happened. And that's why, say of Slavonia, 50,000 people left in one year, we'll never return them again. We now do not know how to encourage livestock because it is not a problem, but these cattlemen who have dealt with tradition, family, centuries, livestock and farms are empty and these family economies are empty. There's a problem. And now those who got that money and who didn't pay will sue the Croatian state for 2 billion kuna. That's one example. When you say they're all guilty and you mentioned the MOST's conscience, but of course it should be debated, what's good to support, just what I've listed that government that made it so that those two billion gave tycoons, and it needed the O.P.G.'s small is worse than any natural disaster in the last 5 centuries. She emptied Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31515	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. Reply Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31516	Dear fellow Bull always has a standard replica. Of course, every government has moves that are age and bad, you can't always be good, you can't be, if you're always bad then it's not good but the SDP government has clearly led the country out of the crisis, it's raised GDP, it's increased exports, we've increased employment, it's started to reduce unemployment. Today we are talking about a measure that was one of the most successful measures, when we talk about allowing young people to enter the labour market. You forgot the vouchers where we're in the farm, I can tell you've solved the work on black. Therefore, I think we can't look so black, I know that politics always makes it wrong, everything new starts from me, but it's very clear that the SDP government took Croatia out of the crisis and that what is happening now is, it was planted at the time when the SDP was in power. And as far as agriculture itself is concerned, it's burdensome, the problems didn't start now, but I think it's a topic for another debate. But what will happen to you now is that by abolishing this measure of permanent season, our people who are in Slavonia, who are working in tourism, who are an excellent workforce, who have experience, knowledge, desire and will to work in tourism and be, therefore, to that extent permanent season they will seek their happiness outside Croatia and Slavonia will be even more devastated than it has ever been. And one of the consequences is the elimination of the measure of permanent seasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31517	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Branko Hrg, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31518	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, you mentioned statistics and praised the time of the government in which you were minister. Here at the time, statistics were extremely good about employment. We had one phenomenon -- our number of employees fell and the number of unemployed. That's the statistics. At the time of the fall and the number of employees and the unemployed, but that's not why I answered. I volunteered to comment with you as a person who was actively working on it at the time as a minister, this training program for youth work. I am convinced that this programme did not increase youth employment. That's what I'm convinced of. As much as I'm going to say it was one emergency measure that actually hurt a lot of young people, and I'm not saying it. I convey what those young, educated people told me back then. If we have already set out in such a direction, then there should always have been one measure that would not empower educated young people but that would allow them to feel worthy. You said yes, and I can feel worth it if, of course, they receive for their work and the compensation that is normal for it. Let's say some height of a trainee's salary, then that's it. Employers are looking for people with experience. One example that employers. I'll tell you social care center a year ago, welfare centers didn't want to receive young people, educated if they didn't have an expert exam. So the state institution didn't allow a young man to start working, but he even had to go and do the work practically volunteering.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31519	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrga, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31520	Dear colleague Hrg, you mix apples and pears. This last one is not a professional training problem but a matter of statutes and, therefore, that institution where things were obviously to be changed. But I find it a little strange, you're part of the position. Your discussion would have been that you wouldn't be voting for a law like this if they were so bad, but that's how the measure did what it did. So, you should raise your hand against these laws and against expanding to high school education, against extending the measure. You said it yourself, and you repeated what I said again, that the technical training measure was a measure at the time of the crisis. And it allowed young people to stay in Croatia, to get a year's work experience. And yes, 60% of them found a job in Croatia, 50,000 received a contract indefinitely. But now the times are different. A little bit should be left for those who need to, let's say one push into the labour market and develop a traineeship. So that's something we expected today to be in this package of laws. So when you talk about statistics on the decline in the number of employees and unemployed, that's what you had in 2016 was the same mathematics. So, one thing is that in Croatia, he ran the number of employees at three levels and on the other hand, it was a discrimination between polling unemployment and unemployment at the Croatian Employment Service. Thus, 2016 was the same. This is something that experts in Croatia need to clarify. But the fact is, in 2014, the number of employees began to grow slightly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31521	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31522	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, here I had the opportunity as former head of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County at the time you were at the head of the ministry to learn about the measures of active employment policy. And I have really come to know the positive effects of these measures. We have received a lot of young people who have proven to be extremely professional and high-quality and have kept them in working relationships which in the county, which in agencies, have remained to work on different EU projects etc. What made me a little disappointed was that I was a person who was really close to this matter in the sense that you would get a little more into the measure of these measures, because I am personally of the opinion that in your time, and also in the time of Minister Coric, this is a very positive thing. And that in your time there must have been a lot of gaps as it is going to happen now. However, I expected you to approach these measures Analytically, to highlight all that is good, but also what was bad in your time and give in a certain way instructions on what can be fixed to make this package as effective as possible, to keep as many young people later in working relationships. Here's more of a criticism in terms of your exposure than some replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31523	I thank my esteemed colleague, Kristic, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31524	Thank you very much. Experiences are positive in most cases regarding these professional measures, vocational training. However, it is clear that “every grain has a weed” and that there have been bad experiences, and that this Employment Service must make it even more difficult for those employers who hunt in the murky ones to simply exclude themselves from being able to get a person on vocational training especially those who do not pay salaries or who cheat on the labour market. And as for my own discussion, it was a forward-looking look, so I was saying that now we have to move forward to ensure stable, well-paid jobs in Croatia for young people, but also for all the others in Croatia that we have to develop traineeships, that we have to enter fiscal measures into traineeships, to tell the employer that if you give 70% of the salary that you are freed from then contributions, so that he has an interest in receiving a man in traineeship, to integrate in professional training in colleges, that I don't know about the economy of the state pays, but you have to spend a year in a company working on a job that you are educated or in law. That's right in the west. The problem with our education system is that there is no professional training and this SOR has replaced that, but it has allowed young people to enter the labour market, I repeat again, gain experience and become employed. I'll repeat a hundred times that professional training doesn't create jobs. Jobs create an economy, an economy, and I expected that today we will talk about it, and that the measures we propose will be measures aimed at creating stable well-paid jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31525	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. The next line came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Mrsic, you have expressed at the end of your presentation the hope that your well-intentioned and useful advice and remarks will bear fruit and come to the ears of the competent and that in some way reason will prevail, that it will not continue to insist on the urgent adoption of such a law, without any, as you yourself have said, dialogue with the social partners which is actually unheard of. However, I do not share your hope with you, I do not share it for reasons that in 2016 you could see very clearly the direction in which you will go with politics or if you want active employment measures. When you compare what you have already mentioned by slowing down the approval of a request that has not even been directed, it was also a stop at one point. You forgot to mention the fact that, since September 2016, applicants and users of the SOR measures have been talking to us first and foremost, revolving us with the fact that there has been a delay in the cost of transport, means of transport, and very clearly through the state budget. So in 2015, we had out of 780 million that were resources for active employment policies, more than half a billion came from the state budget and it was a very clear commitment of the then government that we decided to deal with the conditions in which we found ourselves, the recession and find a way to do at that difficult moment at least something. However, here I am afraid that it will not come to this, that we will encourage these 30-year-olds to leave Croatia, and those you yourself said with a finished high school that has not been covered by measures so far that they may be working with Todorovic in trade chains at an even cheaper cost of working than today's cashiers. It really doesn't seem like it can go any lower, but obviously it will still be power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31527	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, the Replicator. Answer, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31528	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Vosovac, yes, the government of the SDP, in 2013, signed an Agreement on the establishment and operation of the Economic and Social Council, which is a permanent contract with 4 central governments and 5 central governments and the Croatian Employers' Association, where it is very clear that social dialogue was to be carried out on these laws. The social dialogue in 2016 was not at all, but I don't think they are flowering roses anyway, since it was not possible for trade unions and other interested parties in the first row of the unemployed and youth associations to make their remarks on this law. If you had heard those remarks then you wouldn't have put the measure in there to expand to three-year and four-year high school education. You will deliver young people needlessly with large chains, but also with small merchants, we are now talking about them who will then be able to make very legal use of them without the control of those young people, and there is no need for that. And on the other hand, the question is, Mrs. Glasovac, you were the assistant minister, how you're going to train a high school student professionally, they have no interest. So, what do you want with those high school kids? According to that, the law is inconclusive. You should've said, except for the ones with the high school. So here's another appeal from this side to consider sending the law to a regular procedure, that if we need to meet again in the Assembly that if the government really wants to introduce measures, we should reconsider these remarks and that the laws are better than they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31529	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. The following came to the replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31530	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, I listen to your debate one in a certain way of praise. You're talking about what's been going on for the last year rightly warning of all the failures of the past and the current government. However, these problems did not arise a year ago, a year and a few months ago, but essentially arose several years earlier. I am surprised that these measures you mentioned were allegedly so very successful and today Croatia is at the very bottom of youth unemployment, so we are second from the bottom, worse than we are probably Spain alone. I guess those measures were just as successful as those debt write-off measures that maybe a few hundred people wrote off their debt. So, as I recall, your government had some kind of plan 21 on transparency, about three salaries in plus, about stopping borrowing, about raising funds for education. But there was nothing left of it. When we see, among other things, that you are now accusing the government here in the Parliament and as soon as the session stops trying to make some kind of contact with the Office of the President, we see that you are advocating yourself to the Most and in fact you are doubting that you are actually simply offering a different policy and in fact Croatian problems are the same, whether the Government is in charge of us, whether HDZ, SDP or Canadian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31531	Thank you very much, Mr. Bunjec, for the replica. Answer Mr. Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31532	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you always put a sign of equality, I know it's your policy and you get political points amongst the citizens, I accept that. However, you cannot say that a measure of professional training but also a measure relating to the employer if the contract for indefinite time can be released gross 2, there is no success. When we left, there were over 52% of unemployed young people aged 15 to 25. Now somewhere it fell to below 45%. So, successfully, that part was resolved. But clearly not only did this contribute to active employment policy measures but some others, in the first place, contributed to job creation. It is certain that the SDP government has had success, again I note that we have launched Croatia, has drawn it out of the crisis, GDP growth has continued, employment that began in 2014 continued, the decline in unemployment that fell, started in 2013. So all these positive trends continued. Youth unemployment will still be a problem, it wasn't just a problem in 2011, it was a problem in 2000 and 1995, we always have this problem given our structure of education and entering the labour market. At least the youth unemployment rate has two countries close to us and these are Austria and Germany that have so-called. dual, vocational education. What does that mean? This means that during your education you work in a company where you will probably get a job after that. And that's what was in the curricula reform that HDZ stopped. And it's our only chance to drop youth unemployment below 10%. Without that, clearly there will be no success.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31533	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31534	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrsic, you said earlier in your presentation that these measures are not going well and show great concern for young people and the unemployed. So if you're already able to assess how these measures will go that haven't even gone, I'm wondering how in time, so not the measures that started, but they lasted during your term, that you weren't able to ask yourself what was going on with the job conservation measure that was 2 years, so as far as I know in the '14th and '15th, during your term, it wasn't working? How could you not ask yourself how it is possible that a measure in the middle of a crisis, which is about to be preserved by jobs, is not working? And how is it possible that no one has actually checked these conditions that end users meet, so entrepreneurs who want to hire people beyond that measure simply stop them, so they can't simply, can't realize that measure because it's not made for them? Here's what I really hope you'll answer me honestly and truthfully because I really want to know what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31535	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ninčević-Lesandric, on the replica. And the answer, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31536	Dear colleagues, no colleagues of Bulls, nothing. So you don't understand the law. So the law is aimed at employers who are in difficulty. This means when the company gets into difficulties because there is no production because the labour market disturbance, instead of firing workers, workers stay in the company, get from the state minimum wage. When the thing starts, they stay there. Those who used it were very successful, one of them is Adriaticaplast, probably there and close to you, who, because of this law, managed to keep production in Croatia, and now it goes off like this. And you shouldn't look at the law as many users as the law does. And that's why it's weird to me why he wants to break this law, he's got his own implementation problems, he can be promoted, he can be made possible by employers to make it easier and better used but not abolished because this is legal state support for employers. You know that state aid can't be given since we've been in the EU, you can't give money to an employer but you can give it through workers. Germany has saved Mercedes Benz in this way that the workers have been financed by the workplace to remain a job in Germany, not to move east or somewhere else and we are now ending the possibility of this. For how, there is a proposal that this will be financed through measures. The measure can be now, it's not the law, it can be introduced, it can't be introduced. This is the law and it has all the land. He's got Austria, he's got Germany. This is consistent with both employers and trade unions. We walked around the world, cheating. He needs it even easier, and he still needs to be cleared that he's a easier employer. But it's not a problem in numbers, it's a problem that he wants to end now rather than improve. And yet again I note Adria layer remained a Croatian firm thanks to this law. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31537	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. We have another replica following this debate, distinguished colleague Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Mrsic, you said that a young man wants to enter the labour market as soon as possible. With the good things that come from these measures, I would like to point out the problems that arise after professional training for a year. In the past law, when a young man finishes his employment without establishing a working relationship, he imposes himself on the employer, he wants to hire him and use the measure to work after vocational training and cannot. Why? It can't be because a young man has to go to the stock market after professional training. Only after three days can the employer make a request for work after professional training, so you can’t give an application to the labour market for professional training during the course of the professional training for the selected employee so that you want to hire him so that there is no interruption that the young man, waiting for the approval of the measures of a few months, does not forget everything he has learned. This is an extremely large technical operational problem and it needs to be resolved in this law. Automatism has to deal with this, and then a young man can get into the labour market quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31539	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31540	I see you've been reading, obviously someone wrote it for you. This measure you are talking about is a measure of the Croatian Employment Service. Of course, if you ask for that measure two days before the completion of professional training, yes, clearly a young man will not arrive. However, that measure may be requested much earlier to be approved. However, you forget about another measure likely the employer will or will not. You, with the very end of professional training on the same day, can hire that person if you give her a contract indefinitely. And you don't need an institution or a tax administration or anyone. It is enough that in the JOPPD form you have one house where the user writes measures. And you're automatically getting a young man. I was the measure and I worked and we also implemented this measure in the JOPPD form. Therefore, in the JOPPD form, you have one box called the user of measures. It's a signal to the IRS that it's a young man under the age of 30 who's been contracted indefinitely. You've been released for five years, you don't have to pay gross two, which for one average salary is about 75,000 kuna you'll give less to the state. The only thing you need to have is to have an indefinite contract signed and that the person who signed that contract has to sign it before his 30th birthday. Get some information, you'll see. In addition, over 60,000 young people received such contracts. So it's very simple. The honest employers use those contracts. Therefore, there is no reason for a young man to go to the Employment Service immediately to get a contract for indefinite time without any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31541	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. Dear colleague Blaženko Boban, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31542	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honored colleague Mrsic, you have so, Professor, offended the representative that I am incomprehensible under Article 238(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I will quote: “You are either demeaning or insulting the president or other MPs.” You are probably not even aware in any way. You told the MP I see you reading or you're reading it or someone else wrote it to you or you signed it, that's what you said. So what's with the demeaning of Professor Dr. Mrs. Gristle?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31543	I thank my esteemed colleague Boban for this information. You're a little too rigidly interpreting the Rules of Procedure, so your violation of the Rules of Procedure doesn't stand. We're moving on. On behalf of the promoter, Mr Tomislav Ćoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the future debate in this part of it I'd say move away and it'll be hard to refer to all the allegations, while also defending these legal proposals. I would only refer to Mr. Mrsic's thesis, which he did display on behalf of the main opposition party. So, Mr. Mrs. and you, Mrs. Voter, have actually stated that in the context of this bill's proposal, social dialogue was not respected in any segment, respecting social dialogue, certainly means something different from the perspective of this government. What I can tell you is that the public debate on this subject lasted 15 days, that the social partners excluded themselves from the Committee of the Economic and Social Employment Council. If we are talking about social dialogue, you are probably familiar with the title, i.e. you are familiar with the extracts from newspapers in recent days. So, I'll just list one of them. The party's head, so Mr Bernardic gave up the former SDP coalition government by apologizing for moves that the government of Zoran Milanovic has drawn in the field of working relations and dialogue. The Croatian Union Mother did not want Miranda Mrsic, SDP's parliamentary representative and former labour minister to be at the meeting. So, if we're talking about social dialogue, you're probably not in a situation, at least not in this particular case, to call for no social dialogue, not you, not your colleague, the Voice. As far as the measures are concerned, I can see that you've been very focused on one measure, a measure of professional training without a working relationship. But you yourself know that the package of measures will certainly count a number of measures and that in this package we will try to cover all possible forms of activation of those on the labour market, and at this point they are unemployed, so all the vulnerable groups. If we are talking about these vulnerable groups and you are in some measures, and in particular, in the context of the validity, or under the Job Conservation Support Act, you have tried to initiate a more effective approach. What I must certainly point out to you is the following fact, therefore, education within the framework of support for the preservation of jobs 2.5 years of the validity of this law that you have passed, do you know how many people have passed the education system in the framework of job conservation? Zero. So none, none alone. We are talking about a legal proposal or a legal framework that 321 people have been through in 2.5 years, and you believe that it is necessary to justify it by law. In your explanation of the inadequacy of this legal framework, you also referred to the issue of transportation that you said the employer would not pay for transport, that he would seek from the other side, so the worker of the person who is on vocational training to pay back the money he paid for him for the transport. Well, don't do that, we shouldn't just go that way, it's the end of the way we end up here, but from a pay phone or you from a pay phone, you're assuming someone's going to play the law. Why would that happen? Well, that shouldn't happen. We hope it doesn't happen. What is important is that persons who go into professional training without establishing a working relationship do not bear the cost of their transportation, this is what the Croatian public should know. On the contrary, these individuals are allowed to be paid by the state for the cost of a master’s or professional examination that has not happened so far. So the measure of vocational training is kind of being complemented by a good ending. When you mention graduate high school students or four-year-old high school students, there have been several exhibitions about this, so we just have to think about these people as well. At this point, there are over 20,000 people under the age of 30 who have completed four years of secondary education. What about them? You're wondering what we're going to give them. We will enable them to try to acquire certain competences through practice within that year. They may be 28, 29 years old from various circumstances have not gone to university studies, so they have not continued their schooling, are we going to leave them and offer them nothing? So within this measure and a series of other measures, we will try to enable these young people to enter the world of work and to continue to live successfully in this world of work. I don't know what reason you said the measure would be lifted permanently. That's not true, so it's just not true. The measure of the constant season goes on. However, this country does not have the money to finance six months of persons at the Croatian Employment Service with the amount of six thousand or over six thousand kunas that existed, or how much compensation were paid to individuals under the measure of the permanent season. It's just not possible. So we measure the constant seasonal adjustment of the labour market and those on the labour market at this point are looking for their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31545	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Mr. Coric for this debate. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31546	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure of 238 have been injured and the attempt to degrade and disqualify MPs through political means is not related to the subject. So it is not appropriate for the minister here to show newspaper articles and point to accounts within any political structure. This is about laws and arguments we have to discuss laws. I have no objections about the second part of the debate, but at first it went the wrong way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31547	Dear Mr. Djakic, please, you have not received your word. Mr. Hrelja, I don't know what's wrong with you all today that you're so tense with these violations of the Rules of Procedure, when you chair the session, then interpret the Rules of Procedure as you wish. I personally don't think there's been a harsh breach of the Rules of Procedure, so your breach of the Rules of Procedure is not standing. We continue, a replica on the presentation of the applicant, the esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31548	Thank you very much. I will not enter political disqualifications when you have no arguments then raise disqualifications. I haven't apologized to anyone, if you've looked at this article you have my statement, and then you can read what I said. But, Mr. Minister, you're the minister of social dialogue and public debate is not social dialogue, so how many times do we have to tell you? Public debate is a public debate, social dialogue is social dialogue, these are two completely separate parties. I know you're new and I've been new, so it takes time to learn, but here's what I'm saying, public debate is not social dialogue like social dialogue is not a public debate. You haven't respected social dialogue in this case, you haven't been with the unions since the beginning. Why is that? Because you simply wanted to avoid some of the things that you wanted to break through this law like this three-year and four-year involvement of these at three and four years of professional training. Mr. Minister, professional training for high school students, what will you train them for? They need to be requalified, they need to be given a qualification. And when we talk about measures clearly that we are talking about SOR because it is the biggest measure and these other measures are also used, but to a much smaller extent. How are you going to solve this number of 20,000 people who have three years and four years of education? So open up their jobs. You and Prime Minister and Vice President Margaret Dalic are the ones who say we've recovered. So if we're recovered, you're an economist, recovery means opening jobs. Give the stimulants to open this job for these young people so you won't need SOR for it. And yet again, the SOR does not open jobs, you must understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31549	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his replica. And a response from Minister Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31550	Mr Mrsić, therefore this public debate for 15 days but also the fact that the representatives of our social partners were invited to the Commission of the Economic Social Council is in favour of the fact that we, with our partners on the other hand, absolutely want to have as good a relationship and communication as possible. Whether she existed or didn't exist in four years while you were a minister, you know it best. I have only shown you and apologized to Mr. Hrelja, however, I have called on Mr. Mrsic and Mrs. Glasovac, his colleague that there is no social dialogue at all of this government. So all I did was call for an apology from his party boss, Mr Bernardic, the other side due to lack of social dialogue. So I believe that dialogue existed at the time of your government, Mr. Mrs. Gristle, I don't doubt it at all. And you believe that dialogue exists on behalf of this government. I agree fully with the fact that the SOR measure cannot fully meet all labour market needs. It's the thesis that existed today, and it existed both yesterday and at the time of your government. However, at the end of the day as Minister of Labour and Pension System, which is the total amount of funds, a demanding employment policy, at least the largest part of these funds, at least that's what the figures say, directed exactly towards the SOR, where both the requalification and requalification and education and other programmes were fully put aside. If a mistake was made then, you'll know best. What we are going to do is just encourage alternative programmes in the coming time to prepare these young people or all the vulnerable groups for the labour market and make them more competitive in this same labour market. We are aware of the problems, we are aware that these 240 and more thousands of people we have at the Croatian Employment Service today are a huge burden and a huge problem that we have to solve. Give us constructive suggestions and in the next phase we will always consider them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31551	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Mr. Coric for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31552	Respect. Well, dear ladies and gentlemen, I listen, listen carefully to your presentations and watch back for 25 years and I wonder, the number of employees in our country has never been smaller and there has never been a program to encourage employment. There have never been more evicted people from our country, there have never been fewer inhabitants, the land of the collapse of the people disappears. It's an indisputable fact. Did any of the gentlemen wonder if these programmes can solve the problem of unemployment in Croatia, whether they are at all dealing with the cause of high unemployment. And after all, what's the point of this whole story? What's the point of ladies and gentlemen? Is it an economic system where an employer can't hire an employee without state incentives, is that a normal system? In the normal economic system, would the employee need the help of the stock market to hire people? No, I don't. So this system isn't normal, and you're trying to cover up this anomaly with these programs and you're fictitiously reducing unemployment because if these measures were lifted, these people would be out of a job again. I really don't know what the policy of this government is and where it leads and yet I don't understand the Croatian people who support you anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31553	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31554	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers Ćorić, therefore on the one hand we have unemployed who certainly want to put the state on the labour market as soon as possible to get, which is the first experience, so professional training or if they are a long-term unemployed job. On the other hand, we have employers who are also stimulated by the state in different ways to accept these people, to employ them. In a way, what the state is doing is helping both employers and the unemployed. And between that, as a mediator in this case stands the Croatian Employment Service. Some European countries have experience transferring one part of this job to trade unions, which has proved very good. And unions play an active role in the process of finding jobs for those who lose their jobs. What I said in the last line, and again, I want to point out. It is very important that feedback, feedback from both employers and the unemployed. What is actually happening, and where do measures in some way not produce results? You mentioned the external evaluation, I don't think that's enough because it doesn't give us enough information on all the difficulties that occur in practice. An unemployed person especially if she is long-term unemployed, then the employer has no interest in hiring that person. Take the example of HEP as a public firm, when they asked HEP if they wanted to take people for professional training, they don't even care about this motive that the state would pay that part of the funds but simply don't want to deal with these people, say who would take responsibility for them and who would put them on such complex jobs. So there are a number of problems and very important feedback is how the measure can ultimately give the best result. And I don't think the Croatian Employment Service can do it alone and needs that help in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31555	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for the replica. We move to the next debate on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian Party of Retirement, the distinguished colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31556	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I hope to be calm and calm in this debate. So thank you for your apology, Mr. Minister, it's important to me very much that there was no intention. Okay. And if we're ever going to cross the border, we need to talk about it all as humans. So what we need to say about these two laws, two are here now on our agenda, two topics. This is the proposal for a law on employment mediation and rights during unemployment with the final draft law. And amendments and additions to the Employment Encouragement Act. It should be said that unfortunately they don't have that seal they should have. In fact, you, Mr. Minister, are the Minister of Labour and Pension System. I'm a member of the board, former president of the Labour Committee, pension system and social partnership. Something here in this story is unrelated, missing, but it is known that you cover the social partnership and that the board covers the social partnership. And the social partnership produced social dialogue was bipartite, either tripartite social dialogue. I understand what I'm saying very well, because I didn't learn about social dialogue but I did live social dialogue one part of my working life. And I'm extremely proud when I was able to negotiate a social dialogue on collective agreements, and at the level of the company where we fought by 10% higher rate, because every hour increased by 10 June hours a month, times a month brings some benefits to the workers. And it's not easy being Minister of Labour and Pensions and having a social partnership in there, because if it were easy, it would be everyone. And secondly, Minister Mrsic didn't get along very well in the first year, so he cut the same thing as a doctor and said it would be so, and it ended up a little different. So, please don't underestimate social partners, they're not angels, they're not flowers, they can play a little dirtier, but they can fight for their rights, or the rights of workers. The fact is that there should be courage, readiness, expertise and negotiating skills sitting with employers, unions and talking about this subject not only about labour law rights, the Labour Protection Act, all work-social laws, but also these concrete things. Unfortunately, these laws have not passed that procedure. They have passed a consultation with the interested public and this is as short as possible. But face to face, eyes-to-eye sit at the meeting of the Economic and Social Council, make your remarks, open a debate which is acceptable, which is not acceptable. To explain, to outsmart it didn't pass. Maybe someone seems to be wasting their time. It's not. It's not a waste of time, it's always going a little slower, but a better and longer-term solution. Therefore, the man who lived it advises you is not faster than you think, not shorter what seems faster to you, but better what is created with suffering, over time, but based on good relationships and trust relations. So there was no quality social dialogue here. Even that's the time when you're at the beginning of your term of office. Even there are conflicts with social partners, each imposes its own rules of play. I can understand that, but for that reason there is not enough reason for urgency for these two laws. If the only reason for the urgency is to increase this fee to 2680 kuna for SORs with an obligation to pay for transport by the employer, I don't think that's enough reason for the urgency of these laws. To make it so much smarter to sit down, discuss, see what belongs here, which doesn't belong, and then move on. And now specifically for these two laws. So first, for me, let's say the world of work that I don't speak kind of rough market, because then a man with goods is being identified. Looking at the world of work in Croatia, I find it kind of strange that natural and legal persons can do jobs in terms of employment and this is thus proposed in this law without greater control only with the record of the Employment Office that any of the legal or physical persons do so. I always advocate, regardless of the European Union directive, I advocate knowing our practice, our poor practice that the system has and gives me licenses and legal and physical persons to be able to deal with these things. Otherwise, we will have a lot of human trafficking within our world of work or labour markets and in cross-border, or neighbouring countries. So that's what I miss about this law. Now, as far as professional training is concerned. We have passed professional training with work without establishing a working relationship something extravagant with a European guarantee for young people who rightly gave it up to the age of twenty-five. We've extended it to 30 years. Now we say we'll be 29 years old. However, we are left with one part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, one part of the students who will later finish their studies and they remain without the right to professional training, training with work without the establishment of a working relationship. And I think we're making a big mistake with them. I think that both the European Union and all our agreements with and related to the Youth Guarantee Project allow us to come up with a kind of super standard, to finance it from the state budget and to give about everyone equal conditions to acquire this necessary professional training. Let's let it go, it's already said a lot here today, we have an inadequate education system that doesn't have that professional training built in at a certain time during the university spent at the place of work or where these expertise can be acquired. Well, since we don't have that in the education system, then in any case, it would be good on behalf of the equality of all, the equality that everyone has the same right to have one professional training after this 29th year as it says in the bill. After all, I don't believe it has a huge number of people. I think it's a relatively small number of people, and that's why I don't think it would be a big problem for either the state budget or the employment institution itself. Now we have an extension of these measures to high school education, high school students, economists, etc. I'm afraid of something else, and that this morning, representatives from the union centres drew attention to us, that there is an external evaluation of where skepticism is expressed in increasing the mass of these measures. In fact, if we were to introduce one measure, and we introduced because we had a disorder, we had a closed door for young people and education to enter the world of work, if that was the problem, we created a measure that partially solves this problem. Now, if we have created a measure to correct the disturbance, if this measure becomes a rule now, then we can make unfortunately a tectonic disorder or we can have a feedback reaction, which is that we have dumping on the labour market, that instead of starting a working relationship someone is constantly offering professional training for professional training of high school students because thank God we have a large number of candidates for each open job. Look at the shops, look at the economists, look at the high school students waiting for their jobs. Therefore, I would not like this extension of the measure to create a precondition for continuing to pay us as it has been for all these seven years since 2010. You know that wage levels in Croatia are stagnating, but not just because we don't open up maybe more quality jobs than we turn good jobs into less paid jobs. Take a look at the INA store and you will make sure that new jobs created from previous old jobs have lower salaries. You, Mr. Minister, can check this through payment contributions, control per year because what we're talking about here today is all closed circle and salary and contributions and health care and employment systems and work protection systems. It's a closed system. It's not an open system, so I'm going to upgrade another brick and it'll work better. So, I'm afraid of it. I hope that you will have a sense of measure, so that through a certain authority of yours, because I heard today at the debate that you have Pharaoh's powers regarding the writing of the rules, so maybe you can use it if you see that something is blocking or moving in an unwanted direction. Now, of course you're right when you said you weren't exempting the constant seasonal measure from the employment measures because the measure was never a measure of unemployment. It will now eventually become a measure for the unemployed. So the permanent season wasn't an unemployed person. The specific weight of the permanent season is next, that it was a hybrid that had only paid off this part when they didn't work through the Employment Service, but didn't have a foothold in unemployed people. Permanent season is a product of social dialogue between employers and trade unions in the tourism sector, tourism and catering activities. And he's not a measure to prevent unemployment, or to encourage employment, he's something else. It is a measure, a permanent season is a measure for preserving jobs to oil even more precisely, a measure to preserve professional labour in catering and tourism. Because the activity of hospitality and tourism unless there are good cooks, maids, over waiters, if there is no structure of the people of good, he can close the butig. You can't say that I'm going to introduce 100, 200, 300 workers, and they're going to function immaculately, but they're still looking for a little higher quality. And I'm sure part of the employers has the motive to keep those permanent seasons tied to themselves. He tied them to the measure of the permanent season, the state was, I agree, generous in giving, which does not mean that it had to be done as it was done in the proposal. It could have been called both employers and trade unions in the sector, allow them, invite them, and see how ready they are yet to endure because the state can't take it. The renewal of the agreement reached 15 years ago could be sought. It did not have to be entered into into a measure paid at the level of unemployed persons. So, I think there was a maneuvering space and that's not to say that the institute of permanent season is not to be underestimated. I think he's done his part as well all these 15 years, and I don't think we have the right to just overwrite it and say too high a fee, let's just put it into measures, let's say which ones receive unemployed persons, or rights during unemployment. Furthermore, what is lacking in these laws, which was missing both former and former government policies, has not been designed by any incentive measures to employ persons over 50 or over 55 years. We know that the participation of these persons in the Croatian world of work is among the smallest in Europe. And I must admit that the SOR was successful because there was a measure behind it that encouraged employers to work indefinitely on a 5-year-old man with the release of gross 2 contributions. So the SOR was successful because the measure was behind it. We therefore have here in the unemployed unemployed elderly in Croatia, these over 50 or over 55 years we have a problem with having an active measure for their employment but there is no such fiscal relief. There is no fiscal relief for them, and I think that's something very missing from this package of laws. I think this is your first fiery baptism here in front of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have a minister immediately on the opposition side, it'll be a fire but don't think we're not here but you who've been through any of this and who have lived some of this and that they understand this. I've seen concrete examples here from this side and from practice, and I'm glad we all got involved here. After all, our goal is to do something good for our citizens, not to act like cops or judge something. Our goal is to create systems that create new jobs, so that helps, excuse me, to be precise, which help employers open, stimulate employers to create new jobs, surely the Croatian Employment Service cannot create them without employers but cannot without the support of those others representing workers in this tripartite social dialogue. Unfortunately, unfortunately, we won't be able to support these two draft laws in an emergency procedure. We will bow safely as a club of HNS and HSU and we will vote for a proposal for a conclusion that would be good for this to be treated as a first reading, to make a quality step up to the second reading and to realize a quality debate among the social partners. And it would be very good for these laws to come here, not with an assessment of compliance with European directives, but with one assessment of acceptability from all social partners, that we discuss it as little as possible. I think that at the time of the present and all the social partners should declare by their signature that they agree with the adoption of laws like this, that they would talk to me much less here and that they could raise their hands for or against it if they had one such guarantee. You have these levers in your hands, Mr. Minister and gentlemen from the Ministry, you can do it, you can realize it. There's no excuse if someone before you didn't do it that way. My personal recommendation is that you do it as soon as possible, it'll be easier for you to do it. But in any case, I'll see you here for the first time, so I wish you a lot of success in working in this difficult and demanding area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31557	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Silvana Hrelja, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31558	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Hrelja, please correct me if I get it wrong, I can, did you say that you are more troubled by employers, or by private persons, not being controlled by the use of SOR, at the beginning of your exposure? ... Okay, because you said a line like that, so I just wanted to warn you what we as entrepreneurs have to go through. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't hear it wrong because it's mentioned, I just wanted to warn you that this procedure that an entrepreneur or employer has to go through to take a person on professional employment and the whole procedure for the next year is not easy enough to control through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31559	I thank my esteemed colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31560	Well, look, I have to apologize to you and everyone, man while he's saying, you know, I don't like saying it like a dead blow, I like to be in matter, so there's a lot of things that a man can say but I didn't say it on purpose because I know it's well controlled and spent. After all, I have my children in users among these measures, so I know how it goes and it's not exactly without control. If something went wrong out of my mouth, I apologize. But I don't think there was any intention or I don't remember saying that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31561	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja for his reply. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31562	Thank you. Well, I'd like to say that the reason why we have a high unemployment rate is more stuff. The first is a course that is unrealistic, which has made import products cheaper than they would have been if it were real and thus crushed domestic production. The result of this is again high interest from this single commercial economy, and not from production, we also have a high VAT. The employer or not an employer of the legislator instead of solving these things to deal with the cause of this terrible economic crisis and high unemployment throughout the years is poisoning us with all sorts of quasi solutions, but we can see that there are no solutions to the future. We see that the country sinks irrevocably, that the sovereign debt is growing vertically up, that our president is standing in front of the White House fence, that we are simply not respected, that directives are coming from Brussels on which we cannot even say our opinions, etc. etc. With that kind of policy, we ladies and gentlemen are not gonna make it any further. And why won't these three things be resolved? We repeat unreal exchange rate, high interest rates and high VAT. Why won't they get rid of it? Because HDZ and MOST are unfortunately conducting a policy that leads to the disappearance of our country. After all, they also wanted to abolish the kuna as a currency, and unfortunately the SDP gentlemen, while they were in power, ran the same policy. And that's the biggest tragedy in the whole story. Until recently, we had no real opposition in the Parliament, but representatives of the same elite of the same system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31563	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. The answer of the esteemed colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31564	Well, dear colleague Pernar, I like you very much because with some positive sound you speak of my presentation or you replicate me. But I have to admit that I prefer to discuss exactly the topics that are on the agenda, the laws, the variations that are proposed inside and the facts that are ahead of us on the menu, the subject that is on the agenda. And don't mind me saying you're welcome to answer, but I'd rather discuss it. And I'd also say that there's no problem in our connection around the world and our indifference around the world. You know, I don't know how you'd go if you were referred to certain episodes around the world. I was lucky and during one part of Croatia there had no opportunity to learn from the experiences of others. And they're very valuable and we've never copied what my colleague Mrsic said from someone else. No, we recorded how others work and tried to find a way that would possibly be functional in Croatia. It's my style, and that's how I've done it in my life. Did some other governments, if some other people, some other ministers did it differently on their souls. But since prescripting other people's solutions, there's nothing like neither let's say taking advantage of two, three phrases that say the unrealistic course is guilty of everything. You need to put arguments pro and counter, then make a claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31565	Thank you very much to the esteemed colleague Hrelja for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31566	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, you said just before you liked to discuss the basis of the argument, the law. Well, I'll tell you about this season. So far, the law so far has been about that the first three months 60 percent of seasonal income has gross salary in that period while working, and the second three months 50%. And you know what used to happen. When you were cheating, you used to walk around the world and copy those laws. In practice...... 60-year-old, yes. [[You can't hear it.]] 50%, so I said 60. And in practice it happened to you, and probably where they're like tourist zones about like this. That the seasoner was working under any financial ma, and I'm going to say the human human human minimum in the employer, and then he re-funded it all together through those six months when he didn't work and when he was home based on this incentive. In order to avoid this, this is precisely why these new measures have now been adopted in part and on the burden of the employer. So it's not always important to copy from someone else because they're specific situations. Not only were others, they were probably good in their intentions, but unfortunately in practice it was like this. That's what I wanted to tell you about the seasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31567	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boban. The answer of the esteemed colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31568	So I know how this institute of permanent season came into existence, I was then an active unionist, I wasn't directly in those negotiations, but it didn't certainly come from the position to use it. Bad practice should be sanctioned, reacted appropriately when necessary. It is the responsibility of both employers and trade unions and the government to point to the gaps in the law, that is, if some institute is abused. The fact that a permanent season was created was motivated solely by the large departures of a qualified workforce, means that it had, that it had, that it had its effect. And we can't put that institute among the measures used by the unemployed because they're really not unemployed people. So they're really not unemployed. They have an indefinite working contract which is a specific instrument again also a hybrid that extends every year. So there's a significant difference. And I'm up to it as a distinguished colleague that when it is seen that there is a part of the abuse of an institute, that those who have agreed to find, analyze and find a newer quality solution. I'm not saying that perhaps what is proposed here, with the exception that these are the rights of the unemployed would not be carried out through the social partners' dialogue. But he didn't happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31569	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the debate will be shared by Tomislav Panenić and counterpart Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go, Mr. Panenich.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31570	Thank you, Vice President. Honored ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In this package of laws, two important topics. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, two people will exhibit, I would primarily focus on the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment. I would start with the fact that we have today, which is that we have mass migration, so here's what I recently warned when I asked for a break, it looks good in the statistics, which means we've had a decrease in the number of unemployed, but sometimes the reasons aren't that we've achieved more employment than people from Croatia are leaving, and that's how it will be until the economic situation changes until we create a prerequisite for them to stay. If we're not here, I'm looking at a projection to get down to 3.5 million people by 2050, where only colleagues who deal with pensioners' problems would probably have a significant burden and that would be one disaster. I'd just warn here I had a child and a gaster and in the 1960s when my father was going to Germany he was going there to temporarily be, to create a better life, to come back here and create a prerequisite for us to have a better start. What we have now is that young people are leaving us and the basic statement that they're actually identifying themselves with, we don't want to go back. They do not want to return because all these authorities that have so far have not created conditions for them to have a perspective in Croatia. And this law actually deals with this non-preferential and deals with a problem that only causes people to move around, who little follows the forums primarily sees the topic of how to go to a foreign country, how to go to Germany, Ireland there is sought by intermediaries. And this particular law deals with labour market mediation. And what we can tell the agencies that are forming near the Croatian Employment Service are increasingly emerging. We have an institution that sometimes I have a feeling that it's more about how to reduce the rights of the unemployed so that in the financial amount it's less and less about the feeling that the Institute can also respond to the needs of an active approach to employment on the market. I have one contradiction that occurs when some politicians, in particular, stress in their performances the advantage of such agency work. They create the impression that this will significantly improve the labour market, but we see that this is a space that opens up to the manipulation of workers' rights and then also to the obligations of those workers who have and the obligations of those who refer them there. Even the European Commission and it have itself admitted that it has some work-related problems with temporary employment agencies and we can expect it to change in future times. And here I would now, given that I had both a quality debate and with the co-workers of the minister, say that this law may have raised the subject but that in future time it will have to pay considerable attention to precisely the problem of agencies, the problem of contracts that means the problem of workers where in some way our intensity of all together is that people who are currently at the Employment Office are being transferred to the active labour market. Is it happening to us through such interventions, through agencies that those of the workforce which is currently in the type of contract indefinitely. It turns them into an unstable type of contract, and typical contracts are part-time, some temporary contracts, contracts with agencies. And that creates one uncertainty. But we see that one trend, not only with us, I feel it here, we also see in the EU a number of problems it carries here if I mention Germany, there has been a rise recently that has practically 33% of workers going through agencies which are huge numbers. I wonder when someone says that but it's the most expensive form of employment, according to the law of the agencies, the agency worker should have the same rights, meaning the same incomes as the employees in the company. And then if you add a fee to the agency it turns out that the employer should be more expensive. We see, however, employers are increasingly turning to that form and we conclude that this is where the model is found to be cheaper. And the conclusion is that there are numerous anomalies in these contracts where the rights defined by the Labour Act are not respected because these agencies and several of them are not to cooperate within the same ownership or mutual contracts, so they transfer workers from one agency to another. This does not ensure continuity, avoid legal regulations even avoid the obligation of an employer who says that six months after firing at the workplace, he would have to avoid employment through the agency. They simply bypass it by changing the rules, the workers that are so contracted do not present their work contracts. The last minute they come and see how many bad contracts they've signed. So I don't see any added value in these agencies, I see only one loss and it should be respected that there is a need. But certainly here is the future law on amendments to the Labour Act, even more strongly, to determine which rights and obligations workers have to intervene in the labour market. What I would still refer to is the rights of the unemployed who are members of the cooperative, we had one, here's a quality debate about it, and I hope that we will then and very quickly have the amendments and the Law on Co-operation because not all cooperatives are the same. They have really cooperatives that, where cooperative members join together to achieve some economic benefits. Of course, they have profit, material, financial, or otherwise. And if we look at them as such, then it's okay that they don't have the right to be unemployed. However, we also have a number of cooperatives, especially social cooperatives, that are teamed together to achieve any other goals and that is defined by law. They're in their own rules, and they're saying they don't want to share the profits. So they do not have an item relating to the division of profits, and it should primarily be through the Cooperatives Act to clearly distinguish which are profitable, which are non-profit cooperatives, so that these non-profits are encouraged to bring people together because this is the first step to moving towards common action, to business that will also be profitable and to achieve goals that are mostly not in their favour but in the benefit of third parties. And because of this, it is an open question in which law to define these amendments to this or the Cooperative Act, I think it would be a more quality approach to see that the cooperation of your Ministry and the Ministry of Finance clearly distinguishes cooperatives which are non-profit that they can still be cooperatives that can appear to numerous EU funds where they are as well expected, that they can achieve their specific functions, that our defenders who create assumptions for others can primarily succeed through their many defence cooperatives that we encourage to find a model of how to involve other people and that there is no real situation for us to make such cooperatives disappear due to changes to the fact that members will not lose their rights as unemployed from cooperatives, to fall under the law of the prescribed minimum and that such cooperatives are disbanded. We have opened this proposal here and this discussion of two topics that you have already given me some of the answers in which you are heading, and I expect here and yet during this year to support this initiative and to implement it through your laws. I'll leave my word to my colleague Ivana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31571	I thank Mr. Panenic. Dear colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31572	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act. This law makes it easier to hire unemployed persons without working experience in calling for whom they have been educated and long-term unemployed through the release of the total salary contributions of up to 2 years. The law also regulates professional training for work without the establishment of a working relationship, regardless of whether an expert examination or a working experience is established by law or by other regulation as a condition for the performance of a job of a given profession. Under the applicable law, no age-limit is prescribed for a person who may be involved in professional training. In order to implement the measures and use of funds under the Youth Guarantee and Youth Employment Initiative financed by the European Social Fund, this law proposes to limit the age group to 30 years of age. Let us once again clarify this situation to the public and to all interested and most users themselves, and especially to those who, through email and in various ways, have sent questions about the clarification of the proposal of this law. So, for many years of bad economic moves and poor management of expenditures, budget expenditures have put us right in a position that this most vulnerable group of young and educated people are not able to finance exclusively by budget means. The funds used to finance this measure shall be used by means of the Youth Guarantee and the Youth Employment Initiative funded by the European Social Fund where young people are considered between 15 and 25 years of age. We asked for the age limit to change to 30, which we were granted, and allowed further financing of users within this measure of up to 30 years. I think it is very important to note that it concerns the fact that so far the poor management of the competent ministry and the use of the resources available has led us to use this very most vulnerable group of young people by relying on EU funds. We should be aware of the situation that can lead us to misapplication of the use of funds, or that the users who are using this measure for the time being can also be left without them. So if the implementation of the ARPA Agency's funds for the revision of the EU programme's implementation system reveals irregularities, we are threatened with suspension of the use of those funds. If the error of the war is up to 2% then our measure is stable and we can continue to use it, but if the error of the war comes to us by 5% then we will be faced with interference until the error of the war is over 5% then we will be followed by a suspension. What can really change in this situation and what is currently being done with a combination of EU funds and funds, which is that for people over 30 years of age, other measures are redefined to allow highly educated and high-school people to be further trained and improved and thus to be more competitive on the market. I would like to point out once again that the measure for vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship is intended for young people with no working experience in acquired qualifications in order to prevent their inactivity on the labour market and potential long-term unemployment. This measure allows young people to acquire first work experience and practical skills they did not acquire during regular schooling. On behalf of the club MOST independent lists we will certainly not allow persons over 30 years of age to be deprived of the possibility of further training and funding through the measures of the Croatian Employment Service, and we will monitor the work of the ministry as well as working groups that will redefine existing measures and allow older than 30 to be competitive on the market. I would also like to tell all young people this way to take their study obligations seriously and to complete their study within the scheduled time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31573	I thank dear colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31574	Thank you. Mr Panenic mentioned that Slavonia is empty, that people are moving out. Yeah, all he said was true, that's what we all see here. Unlike me, other colleagues in the Assembly claim that the cause of this breakdown of agricultural production economy, however, high unemployment is not an unreal exchange rate of high interest and high taxes. Okay. Let's start from the assumption that it's not the cause of the problem, but that the causes are somewhere else what you're suggesting. But what's going on? You see these measures that you are carrying out that they do not produce results, that unemployment is still there, that wages are still low, that people are still running away from the country, etc. And I'm wondering, have you ever wondered if you're repeating the same thing over and over again with the same result, if that makes any sense to number one? And number two, if you see it doesn't make sense that it doesn't give you the same. So if by implementing the same policy always with no result, do you realize that maybe that's the problem, or that the problem is somewhere else, and not where you see it. Or you intend to offer solutions to some of the problems you see by the day of judgment, and although it's obvious that this Handling, I don't know how to handle these problems, nothing changes. So maybe there's a problem somewhere else. Maybe I'm the only one in this House who thinks taxes and interest rates are high and the course is unrealistic and that's like a problem. Ask yourself, maybe Pernar's right. Maybe you're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31575	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. Answer, dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31576	Dear colleague Pernar, since you've replicated as soon as I first said it, what I can say is that what you said wasn't really part of my presentation. But I would answer you that young people, here I say thank you for the supplement, but young people in Slavonia at my place, Baranja and Srem are least concerned about the course, and most of all their perspectives are concerned about them most, where when they appear in competitions they no longer see themselves because these competitions always pass by some politically connected people, children of the powerful ones in which they seek themselves. They're not answering. They just turn themselves in and that's something we have to open. And if you support this, then surely we can do it either through the Slavonia project or we will all support such good initiatives together and say that the practice that has been so far can no longer remain, because it is no longer the personal benefit of me, my family or anyone else but it is the benefit of people who live there and children who want to know that they have the opportunity to prove themselves and that they remain the most quality of us. Because this way we're going to dispel that youth we have, which is highly educated, motivated to work. And when they go abroad, they become good workers who contribute to the development of these countries, and we have destroyed it with a policy that has been going on for the past 25 years. And I agree, it's time to change whether it's taxes, if it's taxes, if it's courses. I think it's less important, but it's important that we change the practice we offer our young. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31577	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31578	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Panenic, you were the first to touch the agencies as employees during the debate. And I'm really listening to you come to the conclusion you're absolutely right. They really do operate on the edge of legality, and in part the measures that have so far been permanent seasonal in this way have helped them to do so. Today you have a situation that primarily because of these employment agencies, the situation that young people from Slavonia no longer want to work in Dalmatia like, in Dalmatia, in Istria to work in tourism due to almost so much exploitation methodology that they worked with employers of the employment agency. And of course, the possibility was also given to them by the basis of this permanent permanent season as defined. And in this way, unfortunately, if we continue with those rates of e Slavonia, young people will leave what you said to Germany, Austria, Ireland or anywhere else. On the other hand, in the Adriatic you will not have enough capacity to close the tourist season. One of the most responsible is those agencies in the employment process, and around them we must all be in charge of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31579	I thank my esteemed colleague Boban for his replica. Answer, dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31580	I'd like to introduce another paradox to you. We have an agency, I think it's from Germany that comes here and pays for retraining our welder workers. And then when they requalify them here, they take them to their market where they work where they show up as good workers. And we're giving import work permits for missing welders. And then I wonder if maybe we should talk to those agencies a little bit, so let's say, let's have a common goal, and that's that you exist and you work and we benefit from seeing that those actually anomalies of our system that we've made possible by our laws that can never be perfect, but we can see that they can successfully use those holes. We don't know how to fix it ourselves, so maybe it's better what they say, the one who knows how to make money for himself knows about others. So let's maybe talk to them about how to bring their services into our interest, and reduce the unnecessary costs and illogicalities that we make with our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31581	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31582	Dear Representative Panenic, you said you did not see any added value in the proposal for this law, so temporary employment agencies have been operating for more than ten years in the Republic of Croatia, and only the last amendment of the Labour Act has included the EU directive on the principle of equal treatment to the workers who have been resigned. The fact that agency employees do not have the same material rights as those who have a contract to work indefinitely especially in state institutions in units of local self-government in terms of regression, Christmas Day and then the same use of vacation rights. But I'll give you the picture of the situation in the hospital where I'm working. So at the Psychology Clinic, the Housekeeping Sparrow is a thousand kunas cheaper a month than a housekeeper who works through the Employment Agency. But what's the problem? It's not only a problem in my hospital but it's a problem in a lot of institutions owned by a state or units of local self-government the rate of sickness in a housekeeper is 18%. So now the question is how much cheaper is the housekeeper who works within some health institution than through the agency, and you yourself mentioned that more than 30% is employed by the employment agency in some EU countries. So I think this is necessary, the more this bill regulates the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31583	I thank my esteemed colleague Cellic on the line. The answer to the esteemed colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31584	Thank you, colleague Celic, every word in this House is one supplement and one message we send to the Ministry about the problems that are coming and it is clear that the agencies I primarily thought about them when I said I don't see the added value of whether they are taking value on the labour market. I was surprised to see that our unions didn't recognize the point that this law should make their contribution. When it was about the initiative to reduce the costs of public institutions and to substitute certain jobs with just such intermediated workers then they rose to all four legs, and then there was an entire debate in the public space. But now that we need to define exactly the kind of agencies that would provide these services, there is now one silence. And it should be warned that when the law is done then we need to intervene to prevent future activities that will then be more activist and will say what we did not support the law, but today we no longer support what the law defined to happen. And I think there's a problem with the intervention agency where they're going to correct certain shortcomings in the labour market, but they shouldn't be substituting one contract indefinitely to become a contract for a certain time, to become a six-hour contract that happens where these people end up losing their pension rights, later on to their pensions, and that's the problem we're facing and that's why I'm warning both the minister and his associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31585	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. The following came to the line from distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31586	Perhaps to clarify the terms, there are two types of agencies, one is the Employment Mediation Agency, there is the care of the Croatian Employment Service and these are agencies that intercede as well as the institution between you and the employer. And there are employment agencies where you are in that agency and then she rents you to an employer. That's probably what you're talking about, and that's what the Ministry of Labour and the pension system is all about, so we're not chasing things. Is there in principle no abuse in these employment media agencies, they do a relatively good job. I would refer to MP Nincevic-Lesandric's discussion that EU funds were being used poorly. It's a little strange to me because Mrs Katarina Ivankovic-Knezevic was the head of the sector at the time of the SDP government, she was also at the time of the Oreshkovic government and now she's a state secretary, because she didn't do well, she wouldn't have stayed in those places, it's very clear, and she wouldn't have stayed in that former government if she hadn't worked well. Therefore, as the funds are withdrawn, it will withdraw better and the herbs because we have experience and I believe that we will use everything at our disposal by 2020. You said you'd find a way for young people over 30 to get an opportunity to run on the labour market. Even so far they have all these measures, none of these measures are new. Through these measures, they failed to find employment or gain employment experience only through SOR. Therefore, do not promise them anything simple discrimination at the age of this law will be in full glory.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31587	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his replica. Reply Dear colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31588	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Mrssic, I've been together all day. Therefore, the budgets were not used or controlled and directed properly, so we have led to the fact that the most vulnerable group must be financed from the EU funds which is not good. Because you yourself know that in the use of EU funds there is also a revision, there is control and we have a euroreit and we can get into suspension situations. We, for the most vulnerable group you claim to be young, uneducated who cannot find a job, need to have budgets, not EU funds. The EU's resources by what I see now are well on the way that they have great use and should be used. But not for this most endangered group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31589	I thank my esteemed colleague Ninčević-Lesandric for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31590	Dear colleague Ninčević, you said if I heard correctly, you said you would not stand with your hands cut for over 30 years in terms of having the right to professional training and to acquire conditions so that you could work in the world of work tomorrow. However, I did not see your proposal for an amendment on the table, because MPs can react to the function of protecting citizens specifically those who wrote to all of us in a way that they submitted the amendment, not to write for 29 years, but also to other age groups, or later. I'm sorry, but I didn't see your amendment on the table, and I can't say that you seriously meant it when you said that I could sleep peacefully because you're gonna make sure that they don't stay without professional training.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31591	I want to thank my colleagues. The answer, dear colleague Lesandric-Ninčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31592	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Hrelja, the way I heard you wrong, that's how you heard me wrong. So, I said we certainly won't let people over the age of 30 not have the ability to be competitive on the market through HZZ measures. So, we have so far had experience with measures that I can't say that measures are as bad as this measure we're going to talk about is not bad, but the simple conditions and implementation of these measures themselves are very bad. So in this case. So the measures will be redefined for people over 30, and I can personally promise you that I will work very hard and follow all these measures because I know what is happening on the ground and I know what is the biggest problem with end-users and for this reason I have said that we will follow the work to make sure that what has been going on for the past 4.5 years doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31593	I thank my esteemed colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric for his reply. The Honorable Minister, Mr Tomislav Ćoric, applied on behalf of the motionor for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am taking the opportunity for the Ministry of Labour and Pension System to be more actively involved in the debate as it is dynamic and going in different directions. At the very beginning, I would also apostrophe and agree with Mrs Ninčević, therefore, for people over 30 years of age, as we have said ourselves, there are a whole series of programs that they can use, programmes that will increase their competences and allow them to enter and stay actively on the labour market with increased competences. So, Mr Mrsic, as you yourself have said on several occasions, the SOR measure that was created from your perspective because of the situation in which the Croatian economy was found due to a large number of unemployed should be redefined slowly and go in different other directions. And indeed, through measures of active employment policy, we must promote other measures that will allow for both requalification, and retraining and increasing competences. So it seems to me that in the debate we all agree on several occasions and in this context I believe that we will find ways through active employment policy measures, through the measures that we will present to go in this direction and increase competences and other measures, not just through professional training without a working relationship. If I may, in the very end, I would refer to my presentation, so it will not be long for Mr Panenic's initiative, therefore, regarding the issue of co-workers that you highlighted in your presentation. We strongly advocate that this issue be settled and that the system of entry into the register of non-profit organisations is clearly regulated, it is very important. And in this context, when we talk about employment, it is very important that social cooperatives, as well as other cooperatives that act in a non-profit way, are legally placed in a separate position in relation to those cooperatives that act profitablely and share profits. Since the cooperative system is currently legally uneven and we agree with this, the Ministry of Labour and Pension System is one of the initiators of the overall solution to this problem in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31595	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Coric, for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31596	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Ćoric, once again since you are the Minister of Labour, I would like to stress that the problem is broader than all this context that we are talking about. I've already emphasized it and I'll say it again, you know that 60 thousand teachers don't have their minister. The Minister of Education was last in 2003. A network of school institutions brings in a founder, so it happens to you and, of course, he goes to the required ministry. When you ask at the ministry they say it's the founder's obligation, so it happens in my county every year that 30 forest technicians come out every year. Where can these forest technicians achieve their professional training? In the Croatian forests. Croatian forests have their tables. I can't take them all. You know, those kids have been waiting in line for years. They're frustrated. I just can't get to my job. And that is why it is very important that there is cooperation between the Croatian Employment Service, all resolution ministries, so that it is not all on your back at the end and that these measures are then effective in specific segments and that you can eventually and as a labour minister have some influence. And that you're asking certain other ministries of feedback. And at the end of the day and from the county, so good thing you're doing, why you're teaching kids for what they don't need, not school for what they need. But in order to know that, they must really have that information. I believe that information exists at the Croatian Employment Service. I believe they exist, so that they can simply be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31597	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for the replica. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31598	Thank you very much. So when we talk about active policy measures, respected ministers, all these measures at their disposal over 30 years of life are now. They were also in 2010, they were in 2011, 2012, 2013 etc. Simply these measures do not produce an effective result for young people over 30 years of age and that is a fact. I don't know what you're going to invent that would allow someone 30 years old to gain the opportunity to gain a year's work experience. And on the other hand, consider whether this is in accordance with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. The attorney general responded to repeated e-mails and complaints from young people over the age of 30. Is this bill contrary to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination because the age is one of the discriminatory characteristics? You're here with someone who's got a law school who's under 30 years old and you let him get SOR, and if he's 30 years old and one day you don't let that happen. Why? What's less valuable than this one at 29 and 11 months and 29 days? So obviously, with these measures that exist in the repertoire, you simply can't give these people the same chance you're giving under 30 years of professional training, and that's a fact and you can't get away from it. And whether it's discriminatory or not, it's probably going to happen then if the law is passed it's going to count and I hope we have a metric opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31599	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for the replica. Minister Coric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31600	So, Your Honor, Mrsić, I absolutely disagree with you that there is no room for employment of persons over 30 years under other active employment policy measures. The question that is being asked is actually the question of our attitude towards these measures. At the time of the Ministry's leadership, indeed, a measure of professional training without the establishment of a working relationship was a key measure and the only measure on which, at least so, the data on the persons involved in the measures shows on which the Ministry of Labour and the pension system had its full attention. We don't intend to go that way. You yourself said in your initial statement that the time of the economic crisis is behind Croatia and that the SOR measure as such should give way to active employment measures that will lead to long-term employment. In this context other measures available, some newspaper combination of measures that will allow will definitely give room for persons over 30 years of employment in the next period without necessarily having to be through the SOR measure. As for the discrimination or opinions you have called upon or the letter of the Advocate General, there are two key things. Therefore, discrimination is not considered to be an inequality that will lead to real equality insurance, and the youth unemployment rate of up to 30 years at this point is about 40%. Which means it's precisely those groups that need to be given better access to the labour market than other groups, which is what we're actually doing to these measures. In this context, we are, in fact, talking about equating the labour market to persons under 30 who are currently in a much worse position than other groups. And I don't think this is about discrimination. A whole series of other moments indicating that it is not a discriminatory measure or a provision under this measure. I said at the beginning of my presentation, a guarantee for young people within the European Union you know this well up to 25 years Croatia and several countries have been given the opportunity to extend it to people up to 30 years. This was certainly not from the perspective of the European Commission done with some evil intention as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31601	I thank Minister Coric for this answer. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31602	Thank you. So the only success, or the greatest success of this government in employment, is in fact that people who have escaped from government policy have managed to work outside. How is it that hiring outside our workers does not require any incentive measures, subsidies, etc.? Have you ever wondered, gentlemen? Because the conditions are normal, and you here have abnormal conditions and you see that despite all these subsidies and incentives you fail to solve the unemployment problem. It's undeniable. Did you ever wonder if we should change the macroeconomic policy that's being run? You probably didn't. And you know why? Because you decided that with the dogmoma that we're going to have a currency clause, that we're going to have an unrealistic course, that we're going to be a trading casino economy, that we're going to have high VATs, etc. You've created these dogmas, and these dogmas make our citizens sick and our citizens fall and flee our country every day. And instead of dealing with these things, what do you do? You deal as always with the consequences, and never with the cause. However, dealing with the consequences will remain the problem because its cause has not been treated, has not been solved and you do not care at all. It's normal for you. It is normal for you to continue the murmuring of the Croatian people not only if it is not enough these 25 years, you would until the day of judgment torture our citizens with this policy. And the only one profiting from that policy of yours is, unfortunately, you and your colleagues from your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31603	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Silvano Hrelja, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31604	Mr. Minister, I don't doubt your good intentions and that you will also try to find a solution for hiring older than 30 years, but that's not the point of the problem. I'm taking the opportunity to demystify that professional training in some way, it's not the best thing, it's the best of the bad solutions that's happened to us and it's given us some results. Unfortunately, the SOR acted with its fees quite demeaningly on young people who had suffered a lot while they had finished colleges, and it also seemed a little demeaningly credited to our education system which is not ready to make experts who can go to the labour market but still have to have professional training for another year somewhere. But the bottom line here is something else. So the measures will exist but we want to tell you something else, if the SOR is as acceptable as the easiest way to acquire professional training in order to get a job, then it's a measure that we can finance from the budget independently of the guarantee for young people from European funds that people and at a later age of 30 achieve as quickly as possible the right to work, so in an easier way. What you're talking about sure there are measures but it's a little harder, a little longer way. This is kind of generally acceptable, and that's why we have so many calls for people who have crossed the 30-year line because they would like to, too, see that it's a late hour and they'd like to go into the world of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31605	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrelja, on the replica. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Istrian Democratic Assembly, the Primorje-goran Alliance, List of Rijeka's distinguished counterpart Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31606	I welcome both the esteemed and respected Minister Ćorić with his associates as well as other fellow Members and fellow MPs and MPs. I may repeat myself, but I believe that as the minister himself has concluded that this is a dynamic discussion and perhaps exactly a repetition of the previous participants in the debate by the opposition through their discussion have shown that this amendment to the law and the addition of the law is certainly important for ours I will say young but also unemployed. And then let me in one part of which you may have already given an answer, but you haven't convinced us that with any future measures we'll handle it. Therefore, speaking of this amendment and the addition of the Employment Encouragement Act, I would like to look back on behalf of the IDS, PGS and the List for Rijeka and on two and three problems, respectively. First, it refers to limiting the right to professional training without establishing a working relationship on persons under the age of 30. I agree with Mrsic that there must be discrimination and we work two groups. It is clear to all of us and we fully understand that it is the measures that are prescribed so that the funding from the Youth Guarantees and Youth Employment Initiatives funded by the European Social Fund can be used. However, we believe that this is not encouraging and that it is not just to limit the application of the measure to less than 30 years of age. That's why we believe it's still a small number of requests from people over 30. I don't know if you've been doing that analysis, but I believe it's a very small number because most young people still graduate from college by the age of 30, but some are due, but it's a small number, for a number of legitimate reasons, they've delayed schooling or later enrolled colleges after high school, or a certain number may be precisely because of the need for the labour market that requires that they have decided on another college and will finish it after their 30 years. And that's why I think that exactly the government and the ministry need to secure the funds and allow everyone to have the same i.e. equal access to measures for vocational training and obtaining relevant work experience. So I ask the Minister with his associates to reconsider once more and to see that it is a small number and to really secure funds through this very measure and that no new measures need to be introduced. It will certainly give one security and stability to those persons. In addition, existing policies and strategies of this but also of the past governments, we are constantly emphasising and encouraging lifelong learning, and on the other hand, we now have a law that is completely contradictory to the concept of lifelong learning because we will ban access to one very important measure, the extent that enables these people to gain work experience and, in some cases, to pass a state expert examination to persons over 30 years of age. I would not again like to stress, in particular, that this is a much wider problem, and that is, of course, already shown many times by our club, by other colleagues, and this is the problem of youth unemployment and their subsequent and emigration. Although we have talked many times in this assembly about this, I believe that it is a problem that is never overly stressed, and it must be approached by a wide range of measures in different areas, and the area of employment and insurance of existence is certainly one of them. That is why I must appeal to the competent authorities to consider that it is not a large number of requirements that would come from young people over 30 years of age, and to consider before adopting this law the possibility of financing their training for work and to place them in the same position as others who have graduated from colleges and seek the opportunity to get work experience in the profession. I personally have a different experience than my colleague Branko Hrg who said that it might be underestimating and embarrassing for these young people to accept such or low incomes. However, from my experience or not to get a job, you have a large number of young people who want to even volunteer, even parents are willing to pay something just to get their child or that highly educated person to gain experience in that year and to allow him to pass a professional exam. And from my experience, most of these people found a job after that in our homeland. We therefore welcome the continued implementation of the technical training measures because we can see from the available data that the measure is successful and that in the last year, slightly less than 30,000 young people through it have been given the opportunity to gain experience in the profession they have been trained for. Nevertheless, I will take this opportunity to point out this second problem that I spoke about the same for this speaker because last year we had a problem with issuing a solution after applying for a training measure and in those cases when it came to groups that were financed right from the state budget. I hope that the future of such problems will no longer be and will allow all young people without working experience in the profession to get solutions in time and the ability to ensure their working experience and their existence, not to leave their country in search of work where they are more appreciated, but in their own country. The third problem I want to talk about regarding the proposal for these amendments is the Law on the reduction of fees for permanent seasonal workers, or what the proposings wisely called the alignment with the amount of cash compensation during unemployment. Looks like we're trying to get under the table or something. But since I come from Istria or from the county where a large number of people do seasonal jobs in tourism, I am very well addressed to problems related to the regulation of the relations of permanent seasons and their rights. I think you should look at the wider picture again and think about the consequences that can cause the amendments to these legal provisions. In fact, by reducing financial aid for permanent seasons by equating compensation levels with benefits during unemployment, the labour market in tourism will be disrupted. I don't know if that's entirely clear to you? But the minister said all these measures and these proposals go with good intentions, not evil intentions. But we're also trying to really in good faith to tell you that ending the permanent season is that. fees to bring the tourism sector into trouble. You've already brought it in by ruling tax reform and precisely tourism that shows the only growing economy, which realizes 18% of the gross social product in the Republic where big investment is happening, where today the demand for labour is large, where today the waiters are already just or other professions that are fleeing to other sectors in tourism. So with some MPs, I would disagree that our youngsters are leaving because they have no jobs or have no job opportunities. It's another problem. They have job opportunities, but they're low wages. And just in tourism that records the growth of wages today due to the abolition of this permanent season, you will find that people from tourism who have gained some experience and where the tourist company has invested significant funds in their education, will flee to those welders where Mr Panenić mentioned for a lower salary, but are assured that they will work all year long and have security. I think with one measure like this, you're going to question really, and I'm not going to say that you have bad intentions, but you're going to bring tourism into big, big problems. So, to me, that's still what I'm going to say is the first good scenario if they go from tourism to another industrial branch, so they become welders in Ulnik or another company. However, the second scenario is the one that is black, which is the one that we are constantly warning about, and I must reiterate it is the emigration of the population from Croatia and the search for a more stable and better paid job abroad. So let the ministry deal with exactly how to secure higher salaries in cooperation with employers. And that's why I'm saying that we on the other hand have to think about employers right now. I don't agree with Mr. Boban that all employers are the ones who take advantage of that workforce. You have employers, I will say specifically the company one of the biggest tourism companies in Valamar offers these permanent seasons a permanent season plus three, because they have already seen them flee to other professions and want to keep them. And the third thing Mr. Boban said was to be exploited by these workers. A serious company is taking care of workers today because demand is higher than the offer today. And you have a case today that for these three or six months, there's no minister here to hear me now, but you'll tell him that if someone works six months and in those six months they don't pay him overtime, but the overtime goes into compensation, he has a vacation, he can pull up to three months to nine. And then only three months falls on the burden we'll tell the state, but the employer is obliged to cover and retire. So here I invite you to consider this proposal because we are really going to bring tourism into an unfavourable position. But that applies to other employers. I can say that from the area where I come from that we are on the Economic Council that we have and the survey we have conducted among the economies only in the area of Labinstina in this year and next there are 700 workers missing. A curricula reform has been mentioned, the minister said we would enter certain requalification procedures. I don't know if through the Employment Service, through our schools, how do you provide these unemployed with practice so they can get that qualification? I'm offering to have these 700 missing in Labin to sit down and find a quick solution in which to ensure exactly that practice so that they can be requalified and be a labour force that will be competitive and meet the needs of today's economy. And finally, here for all of these reasons, I would like to ask, on behalf of the PGS Club and the Rijeka List, for all of these reasons, to consider before the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act the possibility of joining professional training and young people after 30 years of life and the possibility of leaving financial assistance for permanent seasons at the existing level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31607	Representative Ivan Pernar requested a replica. And since he's gone, Hrelja's representative has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31608	Dear fellow Tulio, you're right when you say you should look at the wider system, not the individual measure. Especially not one fee that wasn't a fee for the unemployed, and it's specifically a permanent season. And there's no reason for this to be inserted in and evened with unemployment benefits. Finally, I repeat, it is an institute that was created through social dialogue between employers and food workers, tourism with the aim of preserving the workforce, not just any, but those of quality labour. The employer retains not one who is replaceable to him by this contract, but one who is important to him for the quality of the service in this catering and tourism activity. Therefore, the normal procedure would be if these fees for the assessment of the competent labour ministry were excessive, to call on trade unions as representatives of employees and employers from tourism and catering activities to say whether or not it is justified, whether measures in the past 15 years have followed their objectives and whether they are needed in the future, that employers say the same thing if the state cannot pay anything other than contributions to pension and health insurance and thus address this problem. And I don't crack into the structure of measures that, or compensation for the unemployed because these people aren't unemployed people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31609	Thank you, Agent Hrell. The answer to the replica is the representative of Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31610	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Hrelja, I agree completely with you. You've replicated me, but I'll repeat that you simply can't even a permanent season with the unemployed at the Employment Office. And there's a story about us clearly. However, what I told you, this dialogue that must exist between the employer, I will say, central authorities and local authorities because that way we will open up a simple issue of salary levels with various private employers. Because today I claim that our youngsters leave most because our wages are low. So we belong to that group of countries whose average salary is 500 euros. That means we are with Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. Until the amendments to the law simply lead to the increase of wages, the young will leave our country. And that's why what you said yourself must exist and there must be one dialogue in which way, the central state, the local government, mention employers and trade unions that simply has to find one, come up with a compromise and find a quality solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31611	Agent Ante Sanader has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31612	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the esteemed assistants, State Secretary. Mr. Tulio, you've replicated Mr. Boban here several times. E Boban was talking. I'm not Boban. Boban talked about the reality currently present in most of Croatia and especially Slavonia, and Dalmatia, where people do not have jobs, cannot find a job. You now say our youngsters are leaving because our salaries are low, and our youngsters are leaving because they don't have a chance to get a job for any pay and the most modest pay. And this example that you now have 700 employees you said you were looking for, if I heard correctly... It's for every commendation. [[You don't understand.]] I congratulate you on the successes you achieve, but it is obviously a trend in investment that has not been slapped by the second part of Croatia. The coast may be showered and this part for tourism, but tourism is a fragile plant. You know that tomorrow this is a set of circumstances both in Turkey and Egypt and in this whole area. Tomorrow it can be very easy for all of this to fall because of some neighborhood unstable as it is. We must certainly build our future on quality industry, highly sophisticated jobs, knowledge, innovation as our foundation. Surely we will come to other parts of Croatia as well. First because we don't have a population and our demographic policy to give great attention to, but the number of children born and certainly we will have to import. You'll already have to import new workers, obviously. I just don't know what pay for it. He wants to fight to be a good standard for them, so maybe some of our young people will come back, or when the employers will, because in the malls, they'll ask us what color the eyes are? We're not gonna take the ones with blue eyes, we're gonna take the ones with black eyes because they're nicer to people. And the minimum wage for two and a half thousand kunas work in their centers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31613	Thank you. The answer to the replica is the representative of Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31614	Here's a thank you for the replica. Yes, well you said Istria today has a need for labour and that from all over Croatia. We have all witnessed today that in recent years this lack of workforce has been filled right across the season, over the summer just from those parts of Croatia's Slavonia, like, Dalmatian Zagora. Last year, however, we saw that these labour forces were not, unfortunately, that this workforce had either gone abroad, so employers are now forced, because what I said and in my presentation, demand is higher than the offer. So the number of people who are at the Employment Service or who are not satisfied with the qualifications and that they can meet those requirements that the employer shows, or the employer must simply increase the salary. We heard a little while ago Mr. Panenic from the shipbuilding and what you said tourism is a fragile branch and precisely in those other branches because today you lack, how many builders we import, and we ask the government to give additional permits, welders, locksmiths, engineers in information, electronics, mechatronists. It's not just that we miss them, I don't know, I don't know, low-skilled workers, but we really miss them and highly qualified and highly educated. And that is why I will say again, a curriculative reform that promised to quickly through education provide a professional education that turned the whole of Europe with centres of excellence, that the employer would receive a worker who could deal with the requirements of his employer immediately after finishing high school or some occupation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31615	Representative Miranda Mrsic has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31616	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to draw attention unfortunately there is no minister, so I hope the secretary of state will pass on to him a part of this discussion of mine that will be divided into three parts. One section will be related to professional training. One part with a constant season, and one part with unemployment benefits. As for the permanent season, I must again point out that this is a measure that is important for the quality of tourism and tourist offer in Croatia, so I would just like to share with you a short one letter that I received from a man from Dalmatia who says: "I have been working in a third year in a row at a Croatian renowned tourist company that I will not name and I am at the end of the third season with the other candidates since next year proposed for the permanent season. For years, I've been patching up some end-to-end stuff from the end of the year, strutting what happens if it doesn't work in the winter, and then the seasonal profit melts, and then it starts from zero to zero, which is more or less so. All in all, I managed somehow to manage, to endure the constant search for any job in any way, even through the facebook, to the friends I asked for help and somehow pushed it all out. A little bit in agriculture, a little in the building, a little over here, a little on black, then in the season again in tourism. Mostly every other year, I gained the right to cash compensation from the Employment Service, which will say that I spent one year working between 6 and 8 months. Just so much so that with all the giving I had to save, we don't remain completely broke. At least I've had days and months when there was no work, in which case I could only be home, but here's the change. From the beginning of next year, I will start using the graces of calling the permanent season. In fact, there is no significant difference between a permanent season and a permanent worker. All benefits are the same, except that the permanent season each year, or at the end of the season, signs a permanent season contract for the following year, while a permanent worker does not need it. If the employer is not satisfied for some reason with the work of a permanent seasonal employee, his status must be denied for the following year. The cash compensation I will receive in months until I work will be 70% of the average of 3 last paid salaries, and 60% of the last 3 salaries." You will not see this story again, unfortunately. In fact, in the bill of law, it is a clear destimulation of the measures to ensure that this guaranteed amount that allowed man to live with dignity, people with dignity, those months when he did not work in tourism. It's not the people who work in tourism who blame us for our season not for 12 months, but for six months. And if there was no permanent season, this man would be looking for a way out of the Republic of Croatia, and the reason is that the government was caused by nothing, except maybe saving because maybe that money would be spent somewhere else, he doesn't want to pay any more of these fees as they were. Or maybe to be a little sharper, that it's not a policy to drive all our permanent seasons out of Croatia and to import seasons from third countries. Because that was the intensity now that we talked about quotas. Let's import people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, import from Albania, Macedonia, wherever we want them to work for less money, but it's a question of what the quality of the tourist offer will be. Already, our guests are objecting to us that quality does not follow the price we are looking for. And maybe this is now in the bill of law one perfided game of government to destroy the permanent season in Croatia and then not to have another choice but to import foreign labour into tourism which will be a disaster for our tourist offer. ... How's that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as the technical training measures are concerned, it is my turn to visit, and there is Mrs Lesandric, that it was not a clear discussion, I could not answer her, but I would like to explain that during the SDP government the funds were not spent in the budget for vocational training measures. Yes, then, in 2015, out of the billions and 200 million projected funds in the budget, 500 million were from EU funds and 500 million were from budget funds. I note that in 2011 for all active policy and employment measures there were 288 million 402 thousand 900 kuna in order to grow to a million 330 thousand in 2015. We're in this budget somewhere at a billion and a half, but with very little budget funding. And the funding of active policy measures is based on EU funds which are fine and complete but we must also have the component that we have in Croatia, so we must have funds in our budget that could then finance and transport, so that everyone gets a ride and not depend on the employer whether the employer pays for that transport or whether when we talk about those unfair employers we will say, okay to the young man or girl, I will pay you 500 kuna of transportation but then you will pay me back in cash. And that's what's going to happen. Unfortunately, this is what we do with it. When it is financed through the Employment Office, the 500 kuna goes directly to the current account of the person in professional training and the employer has nothing to do with it. So with this we favor employers to cheat again, because they are there and they are not so easy to discover and we make it impossible for young people, especially those who are poor to use the measure. I therefore again plead that young people deserve this measure but deserve new jobs, deserve traineeship, deserve the opportunity to enter the labour market very quickly, to educate themselves during their education, to have the opportunity to show their employer and get a job. And finally, from our contributions, which we make, that means 0.5 is actually given by the employer, but that's our money because that's the salary, the gross salary of the workers, is in the budget, at least that's how those years cost nearly 2 billion. The benefits for the unemployed are spent about a billion and 200, from a billion to a billion and 200 million kuna. The other funds were usually used elsewhere by the finance minister or then channeled by the minister's efforts according to active employment policy measures. Since there's been an economic recovery, let's take a step forward, the government has tried to but very minimally with an increase in unemployment benefits. With this as planned, so that 60 percent is paid in the first 90 days of gross wages and 30% in the rest of the days, that means that someone who has an average salary will have 90 days of 3000 kuna and then the rest he has of his internship will have a thousand and a half kuna, less than minimum wage, less than the poverty limit and the defacto those people will be poor. And we have a recovery, an increase in the number of employees, a rise in this item on the budget, and take a step forward to increase it to 80% of the average gross salary, which means that in the first 90 days, we can handle it without any problems because in 2015 there were only 48 thousand people who received fees. So they're not employers' funds, they're my funds, so 80% means you're going to have 4 thousand kuna for 90 days, and the rest is going to be 50%, so you're going to have a little less than a minimum wage, and you're not going to be at risk of poverty. The funds are available, they can be allocated and given for some other needs, and I especially note that these are the funds that are allocated out of wages precisely because of the financing of employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31617	Demetlik's representative has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31618	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, my colleague Mrsic said in one, after reading this email, believe me I have such emails but I will turn to what you said there is no money. You repeated the words of the minister and the minister said exactly about this measure that there was no money. Now I ask the question of how was it last year or before last year, where is that money now rerouted? Maybe, I don't know about re-serving a military term or something, but I don't think that measure should be lifted because what we're going to do again is the employers are already ready, those correct employers to sign with seasons or permanent seasons of contracts for three years. And the measures we're proposing and we're hearing from, I'm going to say to my left, that this new proposal is about to punish the employers who are taking advantage of the law. And now because of the negative, we punish the positive. Because I claim that there are just such employers who invest in labour because they know what fluctuation means, they invest in raising the quality of tourism and they simply don't want that fluctuation to happen and that we have some import workforce coming without experience. And one question to be asked. Did the ministry of Minister Coric even discuss the proposal, specifically with the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Tourism. Because in my opinion, with this measure, we're cutting a simple branch on which we're sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31619	Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31620	So since the tourism minister was fiercely opposed to increasing VAT to catering, I believe it was also fiercely against the fact that the measure would be abolished permanently. It is very clear that this measure will not be used and I note that it cannot be understood that it is not a person who is unemployed. She's formally at the Employment Service. And I think instead of abolishing that measure that we should have gone one more step forward. ... give one amendment in that sense, that the employer who has the permanent season may, if necessary, hire him for up to a month in that period while he is at the Employment Office, that in a month he must pay his salary, contribute and all, and that this period of permanent season is so reduced that I don't know when winter is, when the hotels for the new year are possible, somewhere else that employers can engage that workforce. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it seems again to me that this is about shutting down the permanent season with the aim of importing foreign seasons, and it will not be good for Croatia. And what Mr Panenić said will move even further because simply those who come from other countries will lower the cost of working in Croatia. Because it's clear that a waiter or cook for 5000 kuna can't work in Dubrovnik or Istria, because simply for so long when he pays for accommodation and food he simply can't have anything left to live on when he's not in the season. And I am glad that employers in Istria, but also in some other parts of Croatia, finally realized that workers should also be provided with decent conditions, so they are now building accommodation facilities with the aim of bringing people of quality in tourism. And that's why that constant season needs to stay. Unfortunately, I don't think there's any hearing in the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31621	Thank you. Representative Pernar has come forward with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31622	I was going to say that we've been discussing some kind of measures that will solve the unemployment problem. These measures are being carried out by our Bureau of Unemployment for years with no, or poor result. And we see that unemployment is still high, that people are running away from the country and no one is wondering if these measures are effective, which will be their purpose, which will result, etc. etc. These debates have seen our people for the last 25 years, and as we debated here, the MPs of Parliament continued to fail, to be unemployed and to move out. I wonder how many more of these discussions, how many more stories like this, how long are we going to pass these new laws that aren't going to change anything in practice? I'm asking someone to tell me because this really doesn't make sense anymore. We met in these late afternoon hours and I don't see the point at all anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31623	Representative Pernar has volunteered for individual participation in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31624	Yeah, well, today we've been discussing, we're discussing measures to encourage employment. But by implementing these measures for years we haven't essentially done anything. We see what the results of these measures were. The result of these measures to encourage employment is essentially high unemployment and the escape of people from the country. I would understand that we do employment measures for, say, disabled people or encourage the employment of certain categories in society that have a difficult way of employment. But what do we have, ladies and gentlemen? We encourage the employment of healthy young people. What kind of a country in which a country must encourage the employment of healthy, young people, that is, in which these people would be unemployed without these measures. Is that a normal state? Is that a normal economic system? Is this the economic policy that leads us to a better future? Has anyone ever asked themselves that? I think it's a missed economic policy that's been going on since '94. when the Central Bank was converted into a currency exchange office, when we set up that unrealistic exchange rate, they tied all loans to the currency clause because their cover was in foreign debt, raised VAT and introduced VAT, etc. etc. Instead of dealing with the cause of the discussion of the production economy, and the cause of the discussion of the production economy is three, I explained it myself, an unrealistic course, high interest rates and high taxes instead of dealing with it, we view unemployment as a problem. So it's not the unemployment problem, unemployment is the result of the failure of the production economy, it's not the cause of the problem in Croatia unemployment. However, instead of looking at where the problem is or where the result of unemployment which is a product of missed economic policy, we view unemployment as an isolated phenomenon as a elemental accident, as if I didn't know it was a fight, so now here we have measures to compensate for the damage to fights. The same way we look at unemployment and then we bring some laws that we should, for God's sake, watch this, solve the problem of unemployment. And how will these encouraging measures solve the problem of unemployment if their cause is not solved? Not at all. You know what's going on? You're in a situation where people are still unemployed, only employers hire those people for whom they can get incentives. So you, for example, need a worker, and now for one person, you're going to get a job incentives for another, and you're going to hire the one you're going to get a boost for. And what about this person who doesn't have a job, i.e. who can't get a boost and nothing? And then this law makes it impossible to give these let's say benefits for over 30 years old, people with previous work experience, etc. And basically, it just flows from hollow to empty. So even when this law is passed, people will still run out of the country and we'll still have a high mortality rate, we'll still have a depopulation of our country, etc. Unfortunately, during this entire debate, none of the 151 parliamentary deputies, now we are less than 15, unfortunately she didn't look back at it at all. I don't know, maybe I'm upset because we're asking to deal with the cause of the problem, not just the consequences, and all the others are normal people who deal with the consequences, not the cause. Maybe my way of thinking is wrong and illogical, maybe we'll really deal with the consequences, not with the cause of high unemployment, and solve my problems. However, whether problems will be solved any problems related to unemployment will essentially not be solved. Jobs will continue to be obtained through the link and workers will continue to be exploited, etc., etc. Unfortunately, instead of discussing the Croatian exchange rate policy, we are discussing the rejection of our currency and the introduction of the euro. There's no debate about interest at all. So imagine what kind of paradox that is?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31625	Mr. Pernar, I would warn you to stick to the subject. You can choose a break and warn about what needs to be discussed in the assembly, propose also legislative proposals that will enter the procedure and we will discuss what you are proposing now, but I ask you, since we already have a topic that we are discussing to stick to and stick to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31626	Mr. Petrov, the issue of exchange rates and interest and VAT altitude is why we have high unemployment. I want to discuss the cause of the problem and point out that this law will not solve the problem of unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31627	Agent Pernar, before I give you a warning, I will read you the current topic for your instructions. Proposal for a Law on Employment Intermediation and Rights during Unemployment, with the Final Proposal for a Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31628	Mr. Petrov, please stop interrupting my exposure, seriously. Thank you. I've got three minutes and 30 seconds left, and I hope to be able to expose myself without your constant incursions. So I'm going to reject this law because it means I'm going to vote against it because it doesn't deal with the cause of the problem at all. And without solving the cause of the problem, or what caused unemployment, we will not solve the problem of unemployment regardless of all the proposed measures. Why should this matter not be pointed out in the House? I don't see anyone explaining to me, let Mr. Pernar say you can't talk about the fact that unemployment is the wrong monetary and tax policy. No, no one's saying that just ignores it and tries to tell the chairman that I'm turning off the topic. And I'm just talking about the subject, and the topic is the law that would reduce unemployment, and I'm talking about the cause of unemployment, and this law isn't going to solve it, it's accusing me of turning off the topic. Perhaps it would be best for me to take my word away, to get me out of this assembly and simply to allow the opinions of those people who have a commendable opinion on this law, who will speak from the pay phone that this law will solve the problem of unemployment, etc. I think that all MPs should be allowed to express their views in accordance with the time available to them. It's my choice whether I'm going to be silent or speaking. I've got another minute and thirty-seven seconds, thirty-six, thirty-five, that's my choice. And I want to appeal to the Croatian public that this government with this law will not solve their problems, that still young people will move out and still the wages will be nothing and there will still be great indifference, in fact nothing is being solved. He just wants to get people's eyes dirty and create an illusion that something's going on, that he seems to be trying to solve the problem, and he doesn't actually seem to be doing anything like the last 20 years. The policy that brought us into trouble won't get us out of trouble. The people who brought us into trouble won't get us out of them. It is up to the Croatian people to choose whether they want to continue this policy and continue these politicians or whether they want real changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31629	You've finished half a minute early. Mr. Pernar, as far as I can tell, you're well served so you won't need to be carried, but I won't be able to afford that lizard. A representative of Branimir Bunjac who is not there also signed up for individual participation in the debate. The proposer's representative will give the final word. Tomislav Djoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31630	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So respected MPs and MPs, above all on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I thank you for constructive criticism of these two legislative proposals. So, in the context of the proposal of these laws, first of all, we wanted to make the system of active policy and employment measures in the Republic of Croatia more flexible, more efficient and in this context, and in this context, to reduce the procedural moment which was quite prominent in the previous period, first of all, by listening to the feedback or what about that system, i.e. active policy and employment measures, the users of the measures on the one hand and, on the other hand, the employers who were the opposite parties to those measures, i.e. the employees of the Croatian Employment Service in the field who were tasked with helping one or the other. Using active policy and employment measures during the crisis, it was pointed out that the active policy and employment measures allocated to both the Republic of Croatia and the European Social Fund, that these funds were used in the right direction and that, in fact, active policy and employment measures, a good part of the young people, a good part of the young people, had found their place on the labour market. What I would certainly like to emphasise in this final debate on this topic is the urgency, in this case the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Labour and the pension system as a proposing once again to make these measures more flexible, to make them more understandable to end-users, to make them less burdened with procedures and in this context to make this form of government engagement, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, in terms of the activation of people located at the Croatian Employment Office as best possible. I hope that when a court is adopted on these bill proposals, you will be guided by the fact that these are laws that help and do not defuse, and that when they are proposed, that is, when proposing changes that have been incorporated into these legislative proposals, first of all, we have been thinking about how to help once again unemployed persons activate as soon as possible, as soon as possible to find their place on the labour market in the Republic. I thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31631	I thank the Minister of Labour and the Retirement System. Thank you, Mr. Coric. And Agent Ivan Pernar wants to direct the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31632	Thank you. You are persistently talking about measures to reduce unemployment or encourage employment, but it is your institution of the Employment Service, or the Employment Office, that is, the Institute for the Recording of the Unemployed. The fact is that more people in my court have been employed in the last 20 years through political parties than through your institution, unfortunately. And it's sad that you as a representative of that office didn't stop here for a pay phone and say, the reason why there are so many people on the stock market is because there's no jobs and there's no jobs because there's no production, because we have a commercial economy. And until the cause of the lack of production economy is solved and that's that unrealistic course, that's high interest rates, that's high taxes, we at the Employment Office won't be able to solve that problem. So instead of facing the public with the truth, you've actually just moved on, let's say, running the role that you've been given. However, here we are in the Croatian Parliament, the only place where we can solve the problem in Croatia. And I expected more responsibility from you, and I expected you to talk about it, but unfortunately you didn't and I can see you have no intention. That's sad. And the price will again be paid by citizens themselves who are unemployed. You work at the office is relatively good, people are running away from Croatia and you are getting less and less employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31633	Thank you. The reply to the replica by Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31634	So here I will take the opportunity at the very end of the debate under this law to thank my colleague Pernar for his constructive discussions on this proposal, that is, these proposals he made several times as well as the whole series of expressions he met during his discussions. I believe that after this debate, the Croatian public will definitely be richer in the knowledge of the reasons for unemployment and everything that is stalling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31635	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next is the Final Proposal for a Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during Unemployment, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 86, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposed the adoption of the next conclusion. First, on the Proposal for a Law on Employment Intervention and Rights in the course of unemployment with the final draft law, P.Z. No. 86th debate was held in the first reading. Secondly, all comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Number three, it is up to the Proposer to carry out consultations with the social partners in accordance with the Agreement establishing the Economic and Social Council until the final draft of the law. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the proposed conclusion. Tomislav Coric, Minister of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31637	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31638	Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with most votes, 79 against, 1 abstention and 34 to the conclusion did not get the necessary majority of votes. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the Live Wall Representatives' Club and the SNAGA, the SDP Representatives' Club. The amendment table is divided into benches. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Minister of Labour and Pension System Tomislav Ćorić. The first amendment is the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31639	So the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft of the law explicitly stipulates that, in the event of unemployment, all workers in the employment relationship and with them according to specific rules of the equalised person are required. Therefore, the said provision already covers officials and subsistences.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31640	Does the representative of the amendment proposer want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31641	It is clear that the text in certain articles also states whether the employment relationship or the termination of the service is terminated. However, the law does not state this clearly in certain articles, and this amendment would not require articles to state that both the termination of the employment relationship and the termination of the service. And I don't think the government's well-rated on this amendment. I was hoping they'd accept it and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31642	I ask esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote. Who is to include the above-mentioned amendment in the Final Proposal for the Law? The vote is over. I find that, with most votes, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted to be included in the final draft of the law. The next amendment, the second in a row, is by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31643	So the government does not accept this amendment. Excuse me, the government accepts this amendment. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31644	Thus, the second amendment by the Legislative Committee enters as an integral part of the Final Proposal for a Law. The third amendment was also submitted by the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31645	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31646	This amendment is also included in the Final Bill of Laws. The fourth amendment came from the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31647	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. Therefore, the amount of minimum wage is too high to be earned by someone under other types of contract, except for the employment contract, at the same time being on the record of unemployed persons of the Croatian Employment Service. Moreover, all persons who would earn just a little less than minimum wages would not have the motivation to actively seek jobs, since legislation would allow them to work on a different basis than a labour contract and at the same time the status of an unemployed person.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31648	Would the amendment's representative like to take the floor? Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31649	Thank you very much. Apparently, the government doesn't want to fight work on black. Namely, the prescribed limit is too low for those expenses of life we have. It's about fellow citizens who are in a very difficult position, who are with these fees that are at the Employment Office below the poverty level. It is not encouraged for any other alternative way of earning and is absolutely encouraged to work on black. The government should fight against working on black and gray economy. With this, it just makes it possible. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31650	I ask MPs and MPs to approach the vote whether the above amendment should be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that the above amendment has not received sufficient support, i.e. the majority to be included in the final draft law. The fifth amendment is by the Living Wall and Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31651	Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. In view of the fact that cooperatives as legal persons are registered to carry out economic activities in favour of their members. Cooperative members cannot be considered an unemployed person. The same solution is also established for the person registering the company or crafts, regardless of the fact that the company’s income is being realised, i.e. trade. Therefore, the meaning of that provision refers to the membership of the cooperative and does not take into account the revenue achieved on the basis of membership. Therefore, members of the cooperative in order to be able to keep it in the register of unemployed persons of the Croatian Employment Service must be previously released from the directory of members of the cooperative. However, they can be kept in other records, employment seekers' records and thus use services from the Institute in terms of consulting, information, and employment interventions. With respect to the right to cash compensation during unemployment, the same is achieved on the basis of unemployment insurance, so the members of the cooperative will be able to exercise the right to cash compensation at the time of termination of the employment relationship either in the cooperative or in another employer if they cease to be members of the cooperative, i.e. if deleted from the cooperative directory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31652	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31653	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. The Honorable Ministers. In our presentation during the debate on this law, we noted that the provision of this law is in direct collegiate with the Cooperative Act, Article 35(2). So we don't understand how this law can be implemented if it directly violates another law. Therefore, we have basically said that it is a legal discrepancy, with of course noting that cooperatives in 85% of cases are non-profit associations and that they necessarily do not have to bring their members any material benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31654	I am voting on this amendment. I ask my fellow Members and colleagues to vote whether those amendments are to be included in the final draft of the law. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority to be included in the final draft law. The 6th Amendment is in order by the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31655	So the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The minimum wage amount is too high to be earned and at the same time recorded by the unemployed persons of HZZ. People who would earn less than minimum wages would not have the motivation to seek employment if legislation would allow them to work and at the same time the status of an unemployed person. So it just wouldn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31656	Does the promoter want to take the floor? Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31657	Thank you very much. Yes, with this refusal of this amendment, you motivate our unemployed to work on black and that's something that's inadmissible. The government should be the first to fight black labour. Such a limit, which is completely dimming for any alternative employment opportunities. And I'll tell you again, you're dimming normal employment, and with this you're stimulating ministers on black. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31658	I ask my fellow Members and colleagues to vote whether those amendments are to be included in the final draft of the law. The vote is over. I find that most votes have been rejected by the proposal of that amendment to be included in the final draft law. The 7th amendment is also by the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31659	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The minimum wage amount once again is too high to be earned and at the same time recorded by the unemployed persons of HZZ. In this context, if a person earns something less or less than minimum wage, he would not have the motivation to actively look for a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31660	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31661	Ministers, I'm going to repeat again and I'm going to repeat it a hundred times, this is what you're stimulating work on black, and instead you should have stimulated that the workers who end up at the employment office have the opportunity to get along with what they get from the agency, and that's below the poverty level on average is 1,500 kuna, let them earn something else for a decent life. You're making it impossible for citizens who, not by their own fault, end up at the employment office to have a decent life and stimulate the work of black ministers. This is inadmissible in a country that is part of the EU, and yet what the EU insists on. With this you stimulate work on black. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31662	I ask the honourable MPs and MPs to vote whether they are in favour of making that amendment an integral part of the final draft law. The vote is over. I find that most votes have been rejected by the amendment proposal to be included in the final draft law. The 8th amendment came from the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31663	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The power to adopt rules on how to register and keep records for unemployed persons, persons of other jobseekers and other persons using services of the Bureau shall be given to the Minister responsible for the work in accordance with Article 18. The law on the system of state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31664	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31665	Thank you very much. Ministers, you get Pharaoh's authority in hiring with this bill of law and you're the master of life and death at the Employment Service. This is not in line with the agreement on the establishment and operation of the Economic and Social Council is not part of the social dialogue, as the Governing Council of the HZZ will decide only on active employment policy measures, and you will decide on everything else. I note that the Governing Council of the HZZ is composed of representatives of the social partners, so trade unions and employers, from representatives of the unemployed associations, so they should have the last word on what measures will be taken at the Employment Office, not you ministers. I don't think it's in the course of democracy or democracy, and you become Pharaoh's employment and master of death and life at the Employment Service. Congratulations. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31666	I ask the honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs to approach the vote whether that amendment is to be included in the final draft of the law. The vote is over. I find that most votes have been rejected by the proposed amendment to be included in the final draft law. The 9th amendment also came from the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31667	The amendment is not accepted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment since the increase in the amount of cash compensation is a passive measure, and the recommendations of the European Commission as well as our intensities are aimed at encouraging active, not passive measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31668	Representative for the Amendment, Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31669	Minister, you're showing complete insolence to the persons at the Employment Service. Namely, the fee that workers receive when they lose their jobs in 2009 was 68 thousand users, 2015 is 48 thousand users, the average fee after 90 days is 1500 kn, with 1500 kn cannot be lived and cannot be fed by a family with that amount. With this proposal we want to increase that amount to 2500 kn which is close to minimum wage, which would allow these people to live decently and at a time when jobs are opened, of course everyone will be interested in finding a job and getting a job. You show that you are the government of employers and that workers and those who are unemployed and that is part of your portfolio should be of interest to you. Money, that's what you boast there is, our economy is recovering. I note that we all spend 0.5 on employment, more than 2 billion on our salaries, and it could be financed that this is what you wanted. You show that workers and unemployed in Croatia are not focused. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31670	I would ask all MPs to approach the vote, whether the above amendment should be included in the Final Proposal of the Law. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not obtained enough votes to be included in the final draft law. The 10th Amendment is by the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31671	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. As in the case of a previous amendment, an increase in the amount of cash compensation is a passive measure and the EU's recommendations and our intensities focus on encouraging active and not passive measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31672	Does the representative of the amendment proposer want to take the floor? Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31673	EU recommendations are not binding. Each country in its own way regulates its labour market, among other things regulates unemployment benefits. And if you looked across the border a little bit then you'd see that it was much better solved in Slovenia, that it was close to what we are and even more than what we have suggested. I note again, with this you show complete concern for people who are not guilty of their own guilt at the Employment Service, you show that you are not focused on workers or unemployed. I therefore believe that the government should have found the strength to agree to this amendment because it is in the interest of all of us here but primarily of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of those who are unemployed. This is the total insolence of the government towards those below the poverty line and I therefore demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31674	I would ask that parliamentary deputies be included in the vote whether the proposed amendment should be included in the final draft of the law. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes proposed by the amendment are not accepted to be included in the final draft of the law. The 11th amendment came from the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31675	This amendment by the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted. The power to adopt a Regulation on the terms and conditions of payment of cash compensation in a single amount shall be conferred on the Minister responsible for working in accordance with Article 18. The law on the system of state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31676	Representative for the Amendment, Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31677	As I have pointed out, and in the light of the previous amendments, you get Pharaoh's powers, I don't know why you need it, why you've disbursed the administrative council, your argument is that you don't accept it, but in that explanation, I have no reason to give up this amendment. If you'd given us an explanation as to why you're taking over those powers that have always been in the power of the board of directors, then I would have withdrawn my amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31678	I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote whether the proposed amendment should be included in the final draft law. The vote is over. That amendment did not obtain a sufficient majority to be included in the final draft law. The 12th amendment is also from the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31679	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. In fact, the amount of minimum wage is too high to be earned and at the same time recorded by unemployed persons of the Croatian Employment Service. People who would do something, or who would earn a little less than a minimum wage, would not have the motivation to actively seek jobs as legislation would allow them to work and at the same time the status of an unemployed person according to your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31680	Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31681	We repeat ourselves all the time, you on the one hand, we on the other hand, would be of interest to you citizens, would be of interest to you unemployed. I note that their average cash compensation is 1,500 kn, as much as we get for field activities. And really at a time of economic recovery, at a time when we are growing employment, when we have more and more employees who will pay even more in this Employment Fund that we all pay out of our salary is not logical to refuse. If you don't want to stimulate the gray economy and work on black. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31682	I ask MPs and MPs to vote for the proposed amendment to be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. I find that the proposed amendment has not acquired a sufficient majority to be included in the Final Proposal of the Law. The 13th amendment was also made by the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31683	The amendment is not accepted. Explain as last time. The minimum wage amount is too high to be earned and at the same time recorded by the unemployed Croatian Employment Service. In this way, people would not have the motivation to actively seek jobs, since legislation would allow them to work and at the same time the status of an unemployed person.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31684	Representative for the Amendment, Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31685	I'll tell you again 100 times and I'll always tell you ministers. With this you stimulate work on black. Perhaps it was necessary to step up and make it possible for people who are at the Employment Service to receive a slightly larger fee so that they could feed their family. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31686	I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote are they in favour of putting the proposed amendment in the Final Proposal of the Law? The vote is over. The proposed amendment did not obtain a sufficient majority to be included in the final draft law. The 14th amendment is by the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31687	This amendment is not accepted. The power to adopt a Regulation on the conditions of application of the right to one-off cash assistance and the compensation of travel and migration costs shall be conferred on the Minister responsible for work in accordance with Article 18. The law on the system of state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31688	Representative for the Amendment, Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31689	Here, Mr. Minister, this is the last law in which we tried to limit your authority. You're really getting the Pharaohic powers of employment. Not a single minister before you, and I hope neither of you will have that kind of authority. You've cleared the entire board of directors. It will deal with the price of gas, the employment of possibly flamer drivers, papers, and will not deal with what should be done, which is the planning of all policies and measures that are important for people who are at the Employment Service, for all those who are employed in Croatia. Well done there are... The master of life and death at the Employment Service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31690	I ask my colleagues and fellow MPs to approach the vote, are those for that amendment to be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. Most of the votes proposed for the amendment were not included in the final draft law. And the 15th amendment comes from the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31691	This amendment is not accepted. Article 60 The State Administration System Act stipulates that legal persons who have public authority in their entrusted affairs are to be dealt with in administrative matters in the first and second degree when they are explicitly placed in charge. Therefore, there are no obstacles for a legal person with public authority in the performance of entrusted tasks of the State administration to deal with administrative matters in the first and second stages. In addition, better coordination and efficiency in the work of the regional offices of the institutes are achieved by such arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31692	Representative for the Amendment, Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31693	Well, this is one authority you don't want, which you've had so far, and now you're transferring it to the Employment Service. Maybe that's why you had the same amount of authority, so you gave up one, and the other you took. It has always been in the past four years or five years, so a second-degree solution has been made at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. This was also one of the European Commission's remarks when we joined the EU to work first-degree and second-degree solutions in the same institution. And that worked out well, and I don't see any reason why it changes except that he wants to get away from himself a part of the job that's boring and isn't so luxuriant. And it will be that "cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you". I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31694	I ask my colleagues and fellow MPs to approach the vote whether the proposed amendment should be included in the final draft law? The vote is over. That amendment did not obtain a sufficient number of votes to be included in the final draft law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Employment Intervention and Rights at the time of unemployment. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 84 for, 1 abstention and 32 against the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights was passed during unemployment, together with the amendments adopted. The next item is - Final proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on Support for Preserve Jobs, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 89. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this and the legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Tomislav Coric, Minister of Labour and Pension System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31913	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Allow me to explain in the opening statement the reasons for the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Act on Support for the Conservation of Jobs. Namely, the Act on Support for the Conservation of Jobs “National Journals” No. 90/14 adopted at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament held on 15 July 2014 as an intervention measure in the circumstances of the economic crisis in order to keep workers in employment during temporary difficulties in business and the fall in business activities of employers. This sought to affect the problem of getting into the unemployment of those workers who would retain their jobs through support, and the problem of job losses during restructuring especially in the activities of the processing industry, trade and construction industry. Support for the preservation of jobs is defined by law as support for small value, de minimis support and is in line with the provisions of Commission Regulation, European Commission No 1407/2013. of 18 December 2013 on the application of Articles 107 and 108 The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply to de minimis support and may be granted as support for the reduction of working time or as support for education or training of workers. During the period from the day of entry into force of this Act on 7 August 2014 until the end of 2016, 11 workers in 2 employers in 2014, 228 workers in 8 employers in 2015 and only 82 workers in 8 employers in 2016 were involved, which is not in line with the planned number of persons involved, and is insufficiently large to address the strategic objective of this law, thus preserving jobs. The support for education or training under this law was not used by a single employer because of the extremely high costs that training, i.e. such intervention would have received, given that the Croatian Employment Service could have provided exclusive coverage of the costs of monetary assistance and travel costs during the duration of education, and the other costs with the cost of pay would have to be provided by the employer. It should also be pointed out that the Employment Support Act provided for the decision to decide in the request for support on the administrative procedure on the basis of the previous opinion of the Commission, which further affected the effectiveness and spotability of the grant of support. As the economic growth conditions of this law have dropped, the same needs to be put out of force, and the support provided for by it was to continue to be implemented as active employment policy measures that are flexible to labour market developments. Since the intervention recognised as part of EUROSTAT databases in labour market policies is the same, it should be maintained with flexible implementation criteria which would allow the use of the same and smaller employers who do not have sufficient operational capacity for a complicated implementation procedure. In particular, the finding of an external evaluation of the implementation of active employment policy measures indicated that the negative elements of this measure relate to procedural difficulties and to conditions favouring larger and more stable employers. Other evaluation findings pointed out that the measure nevertheless leads to improved job safety as an expression of concern for the preservation of the employment of employees, which is certainly a positive indicator that cannot be ignored in terms of not only preserving workers' jobs but also strengthening employers and bridging reduction periods, i.e. reduced business volume. This measure could also affect the preservation of older workers’ jobs where there is an increased risk of entering long-term unemployment in case of job losses. Support for the preservation of jobs under active employment policy measures will ensure that shorter periods of reduced employment are bridged, as well as fostering job security and flexibility with a view to retaining employment. The abolition of that law will not have a negative impact on the labour market but on the contrary, it will allow the use of support with more flexible implementation criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31914	The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Advocacy Club which is difficult to read, MP Ivan Pernar. I'd just like you to say on behalf of which club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31915	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of unemployment in our country is unfortunately not solved by any authority that has so far intended to resolve it. Employment promotion laws are being adopted, intervention measures are being discussed, and after the implementation of those intervention measures, the number of employees has never been smaller. The logical thing is that it wasn't the authority that passed that law that dealt with the cause of unemployment. And now we as advocates have two choices, one choice is to act crazy and say, well, it doesn't matter, one law to encourage ad act employment, we bring some other law to encourage employment, and we keep ourselves and others in the belief that this law will reduce the number of unemployed or increase employment. However, we ourselves know that this will not happen, we know it ourselves. So we're passing a law that will encourage employment to God, and we know that the total number of employees won't grow, that he's just dropping and that all these measures are palitative. So it all comes down to the cover-up of symptoms, not the cause of the disease. There's no public discussion about the cause of the disease, and that's the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever law you pass on to encourage employment, if it is not worth producing in our country, it will not be worth it or work or jobs will not be with or without incentives. It's a serious problem. Try to imagine a situation where you deliberately make import goods cheaper than your home and to keep import goods cheaper than your home, you are still in debt. So our country co-finances the sale of imported goods, we are served commercials, buy Croatian, buy domestic goods, and basically monetary policy in the service.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31916	Agent Pernar, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31917	Mr. Petrov, the topic is to abolish the law on these employment-enhancing measures, but it is clear from the plane that by abolishing this law, the problem will not go away and again we are returning to the question of the need to discuss the cause of unemployment. Why can't we talk about this in our country? That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31918	Representative Pernar, I give you a warning, that you should know that in our country you are allowed to talk about everything, only at the time when the topic is opened. So open the topic, suggest a legal proposal take a break and talk about whatever you want to talk about all the time you've come as a parliamentary representative. But I would ask you if the topic of ending the law on support to preserve jobs or, as was yesterday, peer violence cannot allow you to talk about the war in Libya and Afghanistan as you are today talking about monetary policy. You can talk about monetary policy at a time when you take a break or when that bill is under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31919	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. But I think that you are other professions, that by any chance you are a monetary economist or a Markoeconomist rather than a psychiatrist, then you could understand why we in Croatia have high unemployment. And I'm afraid from your ignorance of the macro-economics you're actually supporting the wrong monetary and tax policy that led to high unemployment and ultimately throwing away laws. So now we're breaking one law overnight, the other we're bringing, but it's all what I'd say on the same page and in the same direction. The abolition of this law is, in fact, the continuation of the policy of continuity with not dealing with the underlying cause of unemployment. And no one from the Employment Office sees it, no one from my other colleagues in the House unfortunately wants to talk about it, and my wish is that this debate doesn't go away as one in a long series of discussions that have been in the past, and nothing has essentially changed. I call on all of you MPs to abolish these employment promotion measures will employment increase? No, they won't. Even by bringing that bill, unemployment hasn't grown. So it's obvious that this law, or that these measures, can't affect the total number of employees and that it's just working, I'd paintly say, turning from hollow to empty. Why, as a society, we agreed to such a policy, I personally don't know, but I am sure that by continuing such legal proposals, a government that is not going to solve problems in our society. The basic problem lies in the fact that we as assembly representatives have a salary of 14 thousand kunas, presidents and vice presidents of the Parliament probably something more and when we discuss this unemployment problem we do not view it from a personal perspective, but we look at it as one let's say a phenomenon that affects someone else. And as soon as there's a debate about something that's hitting someone else, not just us, we don't need to discuss it or get into a wider context. However, since I was unemployed for a while, and I saw from practice that the Employment Service is unable to hire people who are on the market and only invent some ways to get them off the market, and ultimately this government policy is driving them out of the country. I couldn't help but think about it. As an agent, I am expected to participate in the debate without pointing to the extent of the problem. As an agent, I am expected to keep my mouth shut about the cause of unemployment without knowing to God that we are abolishing or passing some laws that will solve unemployment. It's a tragic situation that no one cares about here in the House, unfortunately for the problem of unemployment. You will say, Mr. Pernar, we have been doing our best for 20 years to solve the problem of unemployment, but ask the ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ if only members of your parties are employed in the good places in the bad is even bad jobs, ask yourself how successful your policy is, how successful your measures are, and whether they are dealing with, repeating the cause or consequences of the missed policy. Instead of changing this macroeconomic policy, instead of finally taking power over the central bank, manifesting monetary sovereignty, it means to me, instead of taking the essential measures from year to year, we bring these, as I said earlier, palitative measures that are essentially not going to solve anything in our society. And I could sort of bring this Parliament down to a lot of stories for nothing. So it's been said here for years, it's been debated for years, laws are passed, and laws are lifted, and at the same time the number of people in our country is dropping, the number of employees in our country is dropping, and the number of emigrating is growing. The only thing, the only other numbers with the number of emigrants growing are the government debt which and the external debt that is growing vertically, the only thing that is growing is pessimism. 'Cause really ask yourself, if these measures you've been taking and what you're about to bring or break if you haven't been able to solve their problems, maybe the problem is somewhere else, what I'm talking about. You have a professor of economics Ivan Lovrinović, a former Dean of the Faculty of Economics, he, like me, claims that the cause of this high unemployment is the wrong policy of the central bank and I am sure even though he is not here to confirm that he would also tell you that these measures will not solve anything. But if I am deprived of the right to say so, I have made it impossible for the public to see reality, to see why we in Croatia have great unemployment, why people from Croatia are running away. Unfortunately, gentlemen from the unemployment records office are refusing to face this simple, obvious truth. I'm surprised that in decades of this unemployment records office, not a single director, as the director, has already called himself, hasn't been out in public and people have said we're implementing the wrong economic policy. We as an institution are unable to hire people, perform our function because the problem is above us. Instead, they said politics is good, it's right, like we're taking measures, we're doing everything we can to hire people, etc., and in practice what we see? Well, gentlemen of the HDZ recently spoke and your representative Mr. Stevo Culej that his children are unemployed too. Imagine you have a situation where a parliamentary representative, a party in power is unable to hire your child. Then you wonder what the unemployment records office is doing. Or is he able to solve that problem? If not, is the child’s problem from Steve Culei, or his son, daughter, who, or is the problem with the system that generates unemployment, which destroys production? It's my opinion that it's not his children's fault that I can't find a job but that there's a problem in the system. And the paradox is that this same system that makes it impossible for his children to find a job is the same Steve Culej with his voice in the House to support that system and that policy. And by doing so, he's actually working directly in my court against his own family. I think if you would, because you know what? When someone else is unemployed then you don't perceive that problem but when someone's your unemployed man would say so, at least you'll understand. But we can see in this case that even then, you don't see this wrong policy. And to sum up the story, until the ladies and gentlemen, how long are we here under quotes barking for the moon, telling stories that are loose and things in the country don't work out? Until when? How many more Croatian people can endure such debates, such proposals of laws that are ridiculous and unserious to me because they don't solve anything, are abolished and, as new ones are introduced, etc., etc. A man would say that when this law is abolished on this incentive of employment, some law intervenes that it is abolished because the problem of unemployment is solved because there is no unemployment anymore. However, we see that the unemployed are still unemployed, i.e. those who are employed are not employed in Croatia, not thanks to these laws that we have passed here. Says Mr. Boric of HDZ, you haven't even read Mr. Pernar. You're right, you're right, Mr. Boric. I didn't read that law, but you probably didn't read it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31920	.../Intruder Boric: Yes./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31921	You are, but you're not answering for an argument, and that's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31922	.../Intruder President: I would ask you to stop communicating in such a way. You're right about the replica institute. I'd like to!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31923	What I'm saying is that if you have a law to encourage employment, and you see that people still can't find jobs, that they're unemployed and that's why they're leaving the country, then it's clear to everyone that this law isn't good and that it can't solve the problem, and that not all other employment promotion measures haven't solved as well as these future measures that are on the same let's say the frequency won't solve. So I'm trying based, they say history is a teacher of the future. So basically, maybe you won't agree with me, maybe you'll argue that this new Employment Encouragement Act will increase the number of jobs tomorrow. Okay. Let time be a witness. The word of my John Pernar of the Living Wall against the words of all of you from HDZ who claim that this law will increase employment. And we'll see in a year, in half a year, actually in a year at the same time this year so we won't be playing with seasonal employment. what the result of that law is. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31924	Thank you, Agent Pernar. The HDZ representative's club has applied for participation in the debate. In their name will be spoken by Agent Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31925	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. At the very beginning, but very soon it will be. My colleague Mrsic, exactly what I was saying in my opening statement on behalf of the club, was not a mistake, it was a misunderstanding. I thought this law and the other one were tied up, so this way I'll say it right now, but that's why I'm gonna cut the time now because I said one part then. So, over two and a half years of the law's validity from August 2014 until the end here are sixteen years of support, 321 workers were involved in 18 employers, 11 workers in 2 employers in the 14th, 228 workers in 8 employers in the 15th. Assumption that in the same employers 82 in the 16th, which is not in line with the planned number of persons involved and an insufficient scope to talk about meeting the strategic objective of preserving jobs. The support for education or training was not used by any employer because of the extremely high costs that such intervention would result in, given that the employee's office could have provided exclusively for the cost of financial assistance, and the travel costs during the duration of the education, and the other costs at the cost of the salary would have to be provided by the employer. In terms of economic growth, the effectiveness of this law has fallen, so it needs to be put out of force. And the support provided for it was to continue to be implemented as active employment policy measures that are adaptable to labour market movements and the hand-to-hand labour market has changed compared to the period when the intensity of this law was in 2014. This as one of the 9 active labour market policies measures, because it goes towards a more flexible and better arranged goal. Because it is obvious from these figures that the law has not achieved the expected results, so the HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31926	Representative Miranda Mrsic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31927	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Boban, did you read the law? Did you see at the Employment Service that all documents should be delivered by the employer? And did you see the mechanism of the law itself? The employer has no costs, because otherwise these workers who use this law either get fired and stay at the Employment Office or will continue to be with the employer by paying them minimum wage. Therefore, the employer cannot have any costs. He can only have costs if he wants these workers to be educated for another profession or for another work operation that will come after a while. And that should have probably changed and allowed that part to be paid by the Employment Service, and that is one of the reasons why employers did not use that measure at a time when these workers do not work to educate them for others and jobs or to acquire other competences or qualifications. So it is unlikely that employers who used this measure have had difficulties because they are otherwise employers in difficulty and are not expected to expect that they have to pay for something more and to participate. I think you've got the law wrong and the law mechanism itself. So let me do it again. An employer who gets into difficulties instead of firing out of 50 workers from 20 workers and sending them to the Employment Service applying to the Institute, the Institute approves the measure. Minimum wages and travel costs are paid workers in hands. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31928	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31929	Thank you, Your Honor. I didn't mean to say this all afternoon, but I'll tell you now. I mean, it's true, I'm not even referred to as employers because there's no of course which is 8, 8, so the 2 in the beginning. But I got an e-mail from some who weren't in those measures today, and yesterday I got e-mails, and I was also caught up in e-mails about what we had already been through 30 years of those. So I gave myself a little effort to see what these e-mails were sent to me by people who wanted to be, in the program there were people over 30. And I didn't know that HDZ's youth was so active and that so many advocates have mailed, and the email I have is exclusively from my employer and I can give you a name and a last name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31930	Thank you, Agent Boban. I would ask MPs appreciated to refrain from commenting. On behalf of the SDP advocates' club to participate in the debate, MP Miranda Mrsic reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's just before I say a few words about this law, I'm sorry there's no minister, but his statement that this law was therefore abolished as well as the previous laws was a social dialogue and that the social dialogue was discussed precisely by the director of the Croatian Employers' Association, who was one of the social partners who the minister said was consulted about these laws, he said that no one had asked him or the Croatian Employers' Association participated in the creation of these laws, nor had the social dialogue been implemented. Thus, so much about the truth that social dialogue was conducted for these laws, even employers who were interested in these laws were not consulted or social dialogue was not implemented. Again, I note for history that counselling is not a social dialogue and that social dialogue has its own ways, haven't taken part in the social dialogue, and I say neither was the Croatian Employers' Association at least according to Director Majetic's words, since it was not around these laws or about this law. Therefore, the Employment Support Act was adopted in 2014 and this is the continuation of all those measures that were in active employment policy measures with the aim of preserving jobs during the crisis and that, instead of workers who would end up at the Employment Service, they remain working or perhaps educate themselves for some additional qualification, for some additional abilities and competences and when production is returned and when the employer starts production again in full scope to continue to work. The law also had benefits for workers, but also for employers. As far as workers were concerned, they still had social security because they stayed busy with that employer, receiving salaries they would otherwise not receive because they ended up at the Employment Service, they would have that fee, but it's at what level. Again, we are going back to hoping that HDZ will find the strength to increase the unemployment benefits in this law so that it does not remain below the poverty line. On the other hand, the employer had an interest in keeping these workers because they are workers who are involved in the manufacturing process, who have certain skills. And if they go to the Employment Service, part of them will find another employer, and once the employer starts production, they will have a problem finding workers. This law has been used by many companies, one of the first companies that is Mr. Sanader, who is famous for Dalmatia cement or CEMEX was one of the first company to successfully use this law, with this law has preserved jobs and says people who ran CEMEX that allowed us to survive and develop as a company. Today it is a respectable company and production in Dalmatia. One of the big companies that also used this law is the company Adria layer, so the one that produces spare parts or parts for cars, it also used somewhere over 700 workers used this measure, made it possible for the company to survive, survive on the market. Today it develops and builds new plants, it gets new clients, and that's not all if it wasn't for this law. Not to mention some other companies, but these are the two largest ones that have used this measure. Mr. Plenkovic's government plans to put this law out of effect because there were few interested. And then we put out of force and the Law on miners Labin and Tuvaluac ate too few left in Croatia who are alive who use this law. Then let's cancel the asbestos law, so damage to the workers exposed to asbestos. As you know, they're experiencing a severe malignant disease that shortens their life span, and they're getting smaller and smaller, so let's get rid of that law because there's little interest in being sarcastic. Therefore, the reason that this is because there are few interested is the reason why it does not hold water and I see no reason at all, I cannot possibly understand the reason why this law is abolished. The minister in the opening statement also did not know why it was abolished. It's being abolished because it's a little bit of a user. And what if it happens to you in a few months that some big company that deals with the wood industry, which works for IKEA's big series, gets in trouble because IKEA cancels the order, then what are you going to do? Yes, they will use measures that have not yet been adopted and on the other hand measures are measures that may or may not be adopted. And on the other hand, this law is beyond measure. Then why break this law if you want to take action? You'll bring what's in this law. What's the reason? If you turn the law into measures, the law is there, no one minds, it will be implemented in the extent to which it will be implemented when required. And then what are you going to do with that company because you can't give it direct support from the state. No more direct funding for the company. And this is the legal way of state support that goes into the workers' pocket, which is what the European Union allows and we allow our employer to do a good job and continue business. You're saying you're going to turn it into measures, why? What's the reason? What's wrong with this law? He's not jeopardizing anyone. He's here to be at the moment someone needs him. And of course now that we're going through, when the crisis is going down and we're going to recover that it's going to be less and less users. But don’t be fooled that there may be a disturbance in certain markets and that it will be necessary, that it will need this law very much. The employers didn't ask for this law to be abolished, the unions didn't ask for this law to be abolished. The law was passed in one full agreement by the ministers with the social partners, but absolutely, they wrote it together at the labour ministry table, union centres and employers. From the first to the last word. And we used experience from colleagues from Slovenia, experience from colleagues from Austria and Germany. And those laws there today are. What is also important here to say that a German has this law and does not intend to abolish it, there are measures of an active employment policy that are almost the same as ours, perhaps something wider but does not intend to abolish it. If it hadn't been for this law, Germany wouldn't have saved one big motor industry like Mercedes. If it hadn't been for this law, Slovenia wouldn't have been able to save some of its major companies that have come into difficulty. And I don't see a reason why it wants to shut down this law, and maybe just because someone thought about it, or you'll tell the European Commission, we're breaking administrative barriers now, we're abolishing laws, we're abolishing laws that no one cares about, a law that's extremely important to workers, employers, it's adopted in social dialogue, it's uniquely passed, it's got unique support in the House, and it's the reason that it's being abolished because there's too few interested or those who use the law are mildly said. What I'd like to hear from the minister today to tell us the clear reason why he's abolishing this law because using 82 or using 10 is not why the law is abolished. Because then you start by breaking all the laws where you have less than 100 people who use them. And I don't think that's the basic reason. We'll see where the basic reason for this abolition is, these, this one good law, both for employers and workers. The SDP will not support the abolition of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31932	Representative Pernar, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31933	Thank you. Mr. Mrssic, I'm reading just one shocking news for me. It says in Croatia 30 people have a salary of 500 thousand kuna. It says a new number, not to advertise, reveals the frightening proportions of social inequality in Croatia. The extremely rich are getting richer and there are more of them. But it also increases the number of hungry. And now I'm going to say just one detail, even in 2008 before the crisis when the salaries were the highest, when the salaries were the highest, in February and June, only one man had 500 thousand kuna or more. So today, before the crisis, only one had that kind of pay, today, after almost nine years of crisis, there are as many as 30 people. The measures, i.e. for the employment that is essentially done, led to the fact that you had workers for 1600 kuna, so now you have 2400 etc. It's just that this cause of this social inequality isn't solved and it's just fictitiously...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31934	Representative Pernar, I would like to ask you if you would like to use the replica institute to replicate Mrsic's representative at his presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31935	So what I'm saying is that Mr. Mrsic didn't bring any of the active measures he was boasting essentially. He said he wasn't interested in it. So ask yourself, Mr. Mrsic, why it wasn't. Whether the problem was in those measures or whether it was a problem in people who did not want to use it. In my court, it's not people's fault. It's the system. Simply whatever measures you take to encourage employment if work is pointless and not worth it, people by nature things won't work. Mr. Mrsic, time is passing, governments are changing and problems in our country are not being solved. It's the most serious problem our society faces. Neither HDZ nor you of the SDP resolved unemployment except within your own party ranks. I remember when you promised 200 thousand new jobs, 100 thousand new jobs, there were all sorts of promises, but basically no new jobs were created. It's hard to admit the mistake, it's hard to say that this policy was missed and wrong. But as long as that failed policy led, our citizens have failed and failed today and nothing is done about it. Please, Mr. Mrsic, if you are in power again, change the system. Don't just make up laws that would benefit 100 people or 50 people, and the unemployed were 300 grand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31936	The club of the representatives of the independent lists has applied for participation in the debate. In their name will be spoken by representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31937	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues of MPs and MPs. As for the abolition of the Labour Support Act, I can understand Mr. Ćoric, who came to the post of minister, saw realistically all the measures, analyzed them. It is simple that the laws and measures, i.e. the laws and measures resulting from this law, have decided to abolish, or redefine certain measures with active employment policies. What I cannot understand is that no one during the course of this law, or a whole package of measures that have just come out of this law, has been asked for two years why this measure does not result. So we're talking about the law that gives rise to a package of measures that are there to support job conservation. And nobody wonders why it doesn't come out in the middle of a crisis. Dear Mrsic, I owe you an explanation and a proposal just before the debate. I'm just going to tell you a situation from the field, because I think that you as a minister at the time were very obliged to know the situation from the field because you need to know what the problems of end-users are to this extent because they are intended for them. So it's not this measure for you or me. This measure is for the end-user, which is for the employee who is being fired. And we are well aware of the situation we were in in 2014 and 15. So, as I ran an entrepreneurial support institution of a client whose company, i.e. the company has a production plant and over 30 employees, it happened to him that in the same week, he was denied the cooperation of three large trading parties of the chain. Of course, the man is threatened with a downturn of business activities of up to 30%, including the resignation of 4 employees. As I am familiar with active employment policies, so of course I referred him to the Croatian Employment Service to take advantage of this measure. Of course, at the Croatian Employment Service, we were welcomed at the beginning as someone who will be rejected with a request for the measure. I have prepared, collected, personally, all the documentation to the client because I know that they will walk it from door to door where at the end of the Croatian Employment Service, with all the evidence of a fall in business activities which, if the three sides of the trade chain have failed to cooperate for one week, you are aware that we have a proven fall in business activities, where we are told at the office that the client cannot use this measure for the reason why he must prove the constant decline in traffic for two years, while not having cancellations. Now you tell me if there is a small and medium-sized entrepreneur in Croatia who has two years of proven constant decline in traffic, while there is no firing, there is no. So I'm no longer sure whether this measure is designed to suit stakeholders, or large enterprises, or simply a matter of a three-way system and our administration that doesn't care what happens to employees anyway, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31938	Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31939	Thank you very much. I note again that this law was passed along with the unions, employers, we wrote it together. And that is why 2014 and it has changed precisely because of these things that were related to the fact that employers sometimes found it difficult to prove everything they needed to prove. And he's been liberalized in a lot of this last version than he was in the initial version, because when the law itself was written, there was one particular fear that some employers might use this law inappropriately. So this isn't a measure. You talk about measures all the time. This is the law, the Law on Preserving Jobs, which has, and for me, that owner of your company and that company were supposed to get help to preserve jobs under this law. And instead of the law maybe even liberalizing, that then I could even access it even simpler and other companies weren't in the interest of favoring the big because it was the same for everything. And as you can see, the big ones didn't use it except before this law when only active employment policy measures were used by the INA when it was restructured. But this law shouldn't be abolished, it should have been liberalized by employers because it's a good law. If the Germans have it, if the Austrians have it, if the Slovenes have it, the French have it, the Swedish have it, so everyone who is on the labour market who has similar active employment policy measures have this type of law because this is legal state support. And it doesn't need to be lifted, it needs to be liberalized.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31940	Reply to the replica of MP Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31941	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Mrsic, the law is one and measures arise from it. That's it for me, no. So, you have the law... My friend Mrsic, can I finish? [[You can't hear it.]] So you have...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31942	.../Intruder President: Representative Mrsic I would ask you not to enter the word, allow a reply to the replica. I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31943	So, we have the Law on Support for Job Conservation and these laws have produced a package of measures "It is important to preserve the workplace". Yeah, I just checked it out with my colleague minister. So in that package, "It's important to keep the job," I'm talking about these measures that I said about this case. It's not the only one. I've got a series of cases like this for you. And it's not about breaking the law if the law isn't used, if it's not good, if it has such conditions that just no user can realize then ok. Let it be abolished, let new measures be introduced through active employment policies. But if the situation is what it was and when you were, or in your term, if you won't listen through the end-user, then no law will help us. So I'm telling you right now that you don't know what employees of the Croatian Employment Service are doing. So, the user talks to them, he won't get to the minister and say, you know, Minister, I'm not gonna let this measure go. And that's the problem. And even if we have the best law if people aren't educated and can't implement it and explain it and even recognize the end-user at all why? And that's been going on for five years, four pardons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31944	Representative Pernar has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31945	We now find ourselves in a paradoxical situation where a fellow member of the MOST says that people may not have been able to take advantage of that opportunity for employment, and counterpart Mrsic says that they allegedly have one, he spoke about Germany and France and that he was giving results there. Then only two options are set, if the same law was giving results elsewhere, and we're not, only two options are possible. One is that people have not been informed and educated, and another possibility is that our economic system is wrongly set that the law has not been brought to life for this reason. And ask yourself, then what's the point, Mr. Mrsic, if the economic system was wrong, why didn't you change it? On the other hand, if a colleague from MOST is right, it should be asked what is the point of law-making if people are not informed about how to apply it, how to use this law for employment. I'm afraid unfortunately it's not a problem in necessity because even when that new law to encourage employment comes alive again you'll see that a very small number of people are busy through it, I repeat because production is invaluable. When production is not profitable, there is no need for work, whether or not the work is subsidized. And that, in my opinion, is a problem that none of you look back on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31946	Reply to the replica of MP Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31947	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pernar, that's two things. So the first is that this law, the measures you call more whatever you want, is simply not made so that end-users can use it, so now if you listened, I told you that the condition for the company was that for two years there was a proven constant decline in business activities, and there was no cancellation. So it's just impossible. And I therefore welcome the decision that measures should be abolished and new and changes should be taken and everything necessary to implement this law, or measures. And the other thing is simply a fact that nobody really wants to admit, and we all see it, which is that most of the employees of the Croatian Employment Service are on their budget salary and why they would even come into a situation that they have to study literally a measure or a law that is being introduced to explain it to the end user. And why would they even recognize the needs of end-users and inform them of it in due time, which they would have to ask me. So HZZ is exactly the one that, when a new measure comes into force, should inform all entrepreneurs, look at their company's analysis and suggest themselves what they can take from the proposed measures, and to reduce the number of unemployed, however, it is not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31948	Thank you, Agent Lesandric. HNS-HSU representatives' club is applying for participation in the debate and will speak for them by legislator Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31949	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. My frustration is almost as great as the President of the Croatian Parliament, because we talk about everything, we talk about it and we don't listen and we don't talk about what the topic is. So, it's about the Support Act, I repeat my support for the preservation of jobs, with the final bill of law that we want to abolish. Repeat, backup. These are not ordinary active employment policy measures. So this is under the glass of the European Commission, this was under the glass of the European Commission. These are support on the edge, so there must be serious conditions in order to achieve these support. So you can't give a hand and a hat here because you can reward someone and destroy someone. So I think that's why it was hard to get to this law, and we give it up easily. The law was created in a tripartite social dialogue under the European Commission's glass that it could produce the results it had given. But that's still no reason to give it up because neither the Austrians, nor the Germans, nor the French, nor the Italians who have neither, we didn't prescribe the laws from anyone, these were created here, of course using the experiences of others, but this is our law, so it's not prescribed and we simply give up. And maybe in six months or a year we need that law. We don't know that, we really don't know that, and this isn't just an active measure that can change or not change or upgrade, etc., law or you don't. A relatively small number of users are no excuse to put this law out of force. There's a colleague and colleague here who are just like me who witnessed that we passed a law that applied to fewer people, a law on workers who were exposed to asbestos, if you remember. Also, Racan's government passed the Law on the closure of the Istrian coal mine Tuljek, and all miners retired beyond all criteria were economic and social reasons for one mine's incompetence. It is applied to a smaller number of users than it was used by this user who used this law. I claim that there is another story, that since this is not a common measure of active employment policy, it was very little pointed out as a possibility. employment policies that very little stood out as a possibility because you know taught by the experience of Croatian radio television which, whose supervisory board has made the decision to free people of a weaker property state half of the tv tax but you did not see them advertised. They didn't put that board decision anywhere as a dog on TV. So I doubt that this measure has been so strongly advertised, other measures have, I must admit, but I haven't heard this one. Perhaps the reason for a small number of users is that even counselors and the entire institute did not advertise enough, explained this possible measure enough. I'm sure there was greater potential for using this support to be precise that I'm not talking about measure because this is support. So, I won't be long, enough for 5 minutes to say everything, I just want to say that we can't support the Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party can't support the decision to stop the validity of this law, which, if it isn't something we need right now, it can be tomorrow. And I wouldn't throw such a tool into that and put it in history. So I would always have it active and this really doesn't bother anyone because all those who started using this will end up using these support until the end. There is no dispute, it says in the transitional and final provisions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31950	Thank you. Representative Miranda Mrsic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31951	Thank you, well-respected representative of the Hrelja. That's right. This isn't about measures. This is the law. So here we're talking about some measures in the law, there's only two cuts in working time and education during working hours. It is said that there should be some documentation here because I know that in this version of the law and we have agreed with the employers, here are very minimum requirements by the employer, so the data on financial operations should be covered by all the givings of the state, the setting up of a care programme, there should be only, there should be data on financial operations, data on the measures that are meant to be implemented, data on the reduced number of hours, reasoning, etc. No great teachings for employers. And it is absolutely certain that this law should not be abolished because the law is the law, the measure is a measure, we had an active policy of hiring measures to preserve jobs that did not produce results, this law began to produce results especially at the time of the crisis. And for that reason, I don't see why this law should be abolished. If you're going with the logic that you're going to make a few users, then you're going to have to get rid of all the laws where it's under 100 users. And that's no reason to break this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31952	The answer to the replica is the representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31953	Dear fellow Mrsic thanks for the additional explanation, but I appreciate that your additional explanation only goes in favor that when it comes to support then the measure must be incorporated into the law, let's not tell the operational body of the Croatian Employment and Iot Institute. So she can also pass under the glass of the European Commission. Otherwise, if something is changing, if it can be changed on a day-to-day political level, then it cannot pass as support. So that's why we totally agree, so we should keep this, leave it in the archive, no users, no users, but we never know when we might need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31954	Thank you. To participate in the debate, MP Miro Bulj, who is not present, has signed up for individual participation in the debate. Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr Tomislav Ćoric is reporting for word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31955	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So let's just get rid of a few dilemmas. This law is abolished because it's not good. You asked what was the motive, why isn't it good? Mr. Mrs. Gristle, you said yourself that by passing this law there were two intensities, one is support for shorting out full-time, the other is support for education. Education support has never been used. So we put half of it aside. Also, through this law, this moment of job preservation exists only for large companies as you know, for small and medium-sized enterprises not. It's within the law, Mr. Hrelja, and that's not good either. Also, no employer used support for education because it had extremely high costs to bear. That wasn't good either. And now that we're talking about the law and the measures, Mr. Hrelja, I don't know if you know because you went in that direction, so this is the law, the law is important, the measures are something else, parallel to this law you have a package of 6 measures that exist between 40 and some measures of the Croatian Employment Service, you know what they're called? It is important to preserve the workplace, 6 measures, so law and 6 measures. Do you see the absurdity of such solutions? I think Mrsic at one point listed several firms who were being saved by the law. One of them was the Adria layer if I wasn't wrong, I think you listed her, the Adria layer didn't use this law, she gave up on him. The other was CEMEX, CEMEX was rescued before this law was passed, so neither of the others were mentioned here. Then what are we talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31956	Replica response, replicator Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31957	Mr. Minister, you're not telling the truth. Adria layer was rescued under this law, whoever informed you wrongly informed you. Therefore, the Adria layer was therefore in the care programme under this law and if you look at the text of the law yourself you will see in the text of the law that it refers to both small and large employers. And it was used by all those who think and thought that they could save jobs. And by abolishing the law because this item of education was not used is insane. Because if it is not used then liberalize it and allow it to be used rather than abolished. If you think that the law is not liberal enough for employers to create problems for them so spread that part, allow them to access it as easily as possible. But you can't claim to break the law because this part of education wasn't used. You see why it hasn't been used, you won't cancel it, you'll solve it, you might give some support, you might give some kind of means on the other side. You can't argue, it doesn't make sense to break the law, first of all, you've given up on ending it because there are few, now you're removing it because no one has used support, you say it's a bad law, and then I expect that if it's a bad law you don't break it, but you're proposing a new one. And not to make it look like it's the same thing that's in the law. It doesn't make any sense. If there is a law, if it is not good, then the law is corrected and the law can be corrected, the only problem of the law is all that employers need to apply before they get the opportunity to use support. So logic doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31958	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31959	Dear Representative Mrsic, all this you said was too few people using the law, education was not used by anyone, etc. etc. It is precisely because such a solution no longer exists in our legislation. It seems to me that you consider this legal framework to be a personal proof of a good solution, which I would not enter, but as I said simply does not stand, so you did not have a good legal solution, the flexibility of the support at the end of the job-preserving end will happen through a measure through which we will also prescribe that education is financed by the Croatian Employment Service, so that it is financed to allow these people to stay in their jobs. As for the example of companies as I said, according to data that I have neither case of CEMIX in 2010 nor 2011 if I am not mistaken, so 3 years before the law the same thing with Adria layer. So these are not examples of companies that were saved through the law, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31960	A representative of Silvano Hrelja reported for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31961	Dear Mr. Minister, there is no anger here, you will say yours, we will say ours but I think you said indirectly that when you said that this law is bad that both Croatian trade unions and Croatian employers are bad. Of course I won't say that you said it was a bad government that brought it in. That's understood from what you've said so far. And that's not right, that's not right, and you should be the first to protect the tripartite social dialogue, Mr. Minister. He's your flower that can be introduced, inhaled, or you can water it to flower with a full glow. Therefore, what I would expect of you and what I would do if I were you, I could not be, but I did not accept it, is to invite social partners and say gentlemen dearly this law did not give us the proper results. Are we going to expand it, do we need this support that we can get under the glass of the European Commission or we don't need it, can we flexible it, can we expand it with additional measures, why these measures aren't functioning? None of that is here today in this written material. There is only one flat rate that the law is bad and the assessment that few users are visible, we all agree on that, but that is not enough reason and this is not enough reasons to cut a law like this tomorrow, but tomorrow a very unstable economy of the Republic of Croatia can be very much needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31962	Reply to the replica of Labour Minister Tomislav Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31963	Here's a very short one. Mr. Hrelja, I don't want anyone to understand, so I'm going to tell you right now, so I'm going to answer you right now, so at no point in my speech, I wasn't saying that any of the social partners were bad, nor was I trying to underestimate them. This was absolutely not my intensity, I don't know what made you realize, I didn't even say that the government that ran the Republic of Croatia from 2012 to the end of 2015, or early 2016 was bad, even though this is probably seen in the context of my reflection on this law. So without any anger, there is no reason to impute it to me, but this government of the Republic of Croatia with the social partners and everyone is ultimately conducting a very open dialogue. Is that how I can testify to the figures? As you yourselves know after many years we have also reached changes and additions to their collective agreement and agreement on the subject, we have also entered into talks with representatives of the union of public services, our social sensitivity has been seen or can be recognized in a whole series of other decisions of this government. And I believe that this here and everything in this assembly will make you change your thinking about this government and finally about that flower that you were talking about, it seems to me that we should cherish it, so we are doing it and we will do as much as we act as the Government of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31964	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31965	I'd like to say that despite the evening debate, what I'm saying is completely ignored. It means that the causes of high unemployment aren't treated, that we're just dealing again with the bill's proposals and repealing laws that don't do anything. Remember, gentlemen, that you are proposing this law one thought, we are now discussing the abolition of a law that has essentially changed nothing, and it was also debated at the moment it was introduced. But when he introduced himself he was portraying himself as a revolutionary thing, as if the Law to encourage employment would solve something. And then the rulings assured the opposition that the number of jobs would take place, etc. Nothing has changed that law, now HDZ is abolishing that law, someone is going to say they were right, but they are now passing a new Employment Encouragement Act which, as a matter of fact, will not solve the problem of unemployment. And I have a feeling that this is a ping-pong that you HDZ and SDP colleagues are outsmarting each other, that you're proposing any laws and that these laws are essentially not solved without stealing people's time, that you're taking valuable time for parliamentary debates, we could have discussed in the Parliament on the abolition of the currency clause, about the National Bank Act, about VAT law to cut VAT. These topics are gone, we simply impose on ourselves topics of no use at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31966	We're moving on with the debate. Representative Ivan Pernar has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31967	Thank you, Chairman. Yeah, the whole evening discussion and the whole evening identical pattern of behavior is the same pattern. A lot of stories about employment and encouraging employment and employment are not growing. The problem of unemployment is still there. And the question is, how long will I have to talk and take this space in the assembly until this problem is solved? If people have to endure this policy for 25 years, they have to listen to demagogue stories about how HDZ or SDP will create jobs for them, I think it's important for me as an advocate to point out that neither HDZ nor SDP will do it. Einstein said whoever created the problem couldn't solve the problems. Whoever created the problem can't solve the problems. And who is, I thought, let's say, these two proposals of the Employment Encouragement Act to each other, in order to say that they are contradictory, so that one law must be put out of force for the other to be put into effect. However, it now turns out that this law is being shut down because few people have used it and actually ask yourselves ladies and gentlemen where this ship is going, where is this train going, what is the future of our country with such a legislator, with laws like this and ultimately what is going to happen to the unemployed? They will not be kept here in Croatia, they will go outside, and employees will be less and less. And you have a situation that the labour force of labour means going out, the number of employees is getting smaller, the pensioners are getting higher, how will this system eventually survive? No one wonders, ladies and gentlemen, that's unfortunately for this high home irrelevant questions, I say unfortunately for a reason because the people who propose these laws know that neither by abolishing this Employment Encouragement Act nor by bringing a new one will solve anything. And I wonder why no one tells the Croatian public, why nobody tells the Croatian public that all the measures to encourage employment are one big game that will not change anything and all the negative trends will continue. That's what I'm curious about. Unfortunately, no one has the need to talk about the problem of unemployment, nor is perceived as a problem, nor are its causes spoken of, nor are solutions offered to solve it. And then we are left to argue in these small hours of this law, and what, exactly, is this debate, what good is it going to be, every time a law is passed or abolished, it has to be asked what will be the benefit of that law? I am now asking the legislator if he can answer when this Employment Encouragement Act is abolished which will be a positive effect for society? I don't see any incentive effects that are going to be negative, I don't think there's gonna be a lot of negatives because no one's using this law anyway, and then the question is why is this law being debated? Why do we today at 8.34 have to discuss legal proposals that essentially change nothing? I'd like to hear that from my fellow MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31968	And Agent Ivan Pernar answered the closing statement on behalf of the Representatives' Club, I presume the Living Wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31969	Ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable that the debate has been delayed so over time our number has fallen in this high house. These amendments to the law, or by repealing the Employment Encouragement Act, nothing positive will happen to the citizens of our country are also well aware of the proposals of this law. Those who passed the SDP law also know that there will be no special negative consequences because few people have benefited at all, or few people have been employed through the law. And the question arises if this law does not change anything fundamentally, if it does not affect the essence of the matter which is then the purpose of abolishing this law, that is to say, when there are a lot of important things in Croatia that should happen to me on the agenda, much more important things. And I'm afraid this House has become a place where more or less irrelevant legislative proposals are made which, according to the directives in Brussels, which of us is pushing on the desk itself and ultimately, there is no effect of them. It means, in my opinion, that I am the legislator, I would first pass laws, or abolish laws that benefit citizens. Who benefits from this law, or abolishing this law? No one, but these are the topics we see as having priority in our House. It is my desire to get on our tables more current topics, more interesting topics and topics from which citizens will profit, not topics that will only take time, or minutes, minutes, hours, hours, days of parliamentary debates, and at the end of the day we will not be smarter than we were in the morning. I think this Parliament should be more in the service of citizens than in the service of some form and procedure where the form is respected but this form is hollow form or form without content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-16-0.u31970	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 p.m. with the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the gas market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.92. Thank you, everyone. The vote will be after this point has been discussed. Session interrupted at 20.34 hours. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Act on Support for Job Conservation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 89, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Act on Support for the Conservation of Jobs. Please turn it on and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, most of the vote, 81 votes for, without abstentions, with 23 against, we passed the Law on the termination of the Law on Support for Job Conservation.
