ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24786	Dear President of the Parliament, on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I am looking for a break to discuss political trade and corruption during the election for the new head of HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24787	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24788	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club to talk a little bit about the worrying trend of violence and intolerance in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24789	Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24790	I'm looking for a break in front of HDZ regarding the disposal of hazardous waste in DINA petrochemia in Krk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24791	Hrelja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24792	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute recess to say something about the re-resistance of pension coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24793	Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24794	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In front of the MOST club, a 10-minute break in terms of demographic images in hill-mounted areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24795	Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24796	On behalf of the SDSS club, I request a break on the position of the Republic of Croatia on human rights in the Council of Europe, the EU Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24797	Mr. Horg's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24798	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on the situation in the field of fire and activity of the chief fire commander on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24799	If there are no other interested, I'm setting a 10-minute break. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first club to take a break is the Living Wall Club, SNAGA. In their name will be represented by Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24801	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Last Friday, during the election of the director of HRT, we witnessed a rare case of political trade, obedience and, consequently, corruption that is somehow symptomatic of our society as a whole. Namely, reading a statement by HDZ MP Zlatan Hasanbegovic, otherwise a member of the party's presidency, claims the MPs only learned on Friday who the director was, that it was Kazimir Bacic. But no one told them why he was fit to be headmaster, which is why the former director is no longer good for that function. He says, quote, I learned it when all Croatian citizens did. Then half an hour before the vote in Parliament at the HDZ Representatives' Club, they officially told us that Bacic was our candidate. Among other things, he argues that HDZ lawmakers were said to have to vote because it has always been so. So that's how it's always been done. As for the MOST party, which also supported the new HRT director, they also argue that before Friday they did not know who the candidate for the HRT director was but agreed to trade with HDZ in such a way that they would raise their hands to him if guarantees were given that the subscription would be reduced to 65 kuna. Do we have the right to know as well as all the public what guarantees are involved and what deadlines for the implementation of these guarantees. I would like to point out here that HRT is not funded by budget money. So, HRT is financed by fees and advertising and parliamentary representatives do not have the right to decide on behalf of all Croatian citizens. So the two parties decide how to choose the director and how to determine the amount of the subscription. This should be decided by all parties and this television should be public television as the name speaks, not political television. In the end, we got a director who, as you saw in his résumé, submitted incredible evidence that he knew a foreign language behind which the stories now go through the media that his qualification was that he was the son-in-law of Ksenije Urlicic. So we chose the son-in-law. Is that right? I'm asking you to deny it. And what happened in the end? Although the MPs, therefore, did not know who they were voting for, they did not know at all what it was about, they all obediently raised their hands and voted. What can we conclude from that? From this we can conclude that in the parties, the biggest parties in Croatia we have listeners. We have listeners who actually rule not only the HRT but the entire Croatian government. Now they've shown it in the whitest way possible. So in Croatia, party lists are placed on the supervisory and management boards of public companies and institutions by hand-lifters without knowing what they are voting for, or objecting to, or objecting. The boss said to raise your hand and raise your hand, and it's a matter of repeating myself once again about the interest of all citizens and it's about professional positions. It's not about political functions, it's about professional positions. In view of this, it is no wonder that we have a crisis of governance in Croatia at all levels, that the situation in society is the way it is, that diplomacy no longer means anything to us. So it's a political deal, it's important to choose someone under the table. Should we be surprised, then, that young educated people leave the country and that all media are warning of a very high degree of corruption in Croatian society. For this reason, if we really want to do well for our country, we need to change this trend immediately. The selection of directors in any position, and especially so sensitive as the position of director of Croatian Radio Television must be more transparent and must therefore be subject to expert evaluation and not political similarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24802	The SDP advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will be the representative of Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24803	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today is the zeroth day of tolerance towards discrimination. I think that, given the recent events, Croatia can say that it has indeed marked it for months, weeks and so on. with events that we have witnessed since the attack on the club "Super Super", the attack on people in Zagreb due to the Belgrade tables, the attack on the famous actor in Dubrovnik because of the color of the skin, the pro-fascist march of black shirts in Zagreb, the photo montage of the photo of the vice president of this House for which she had to ask for police protection, the stickers in which families hang just because Serbian nationalities, the beating of asylum seekers, are 25% more murders in this country. That's why I think this House can't be quiet, if everyone else is. At the same time, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister made a radical turn in Croatian foreign policy in the field of human rights. He did it without the knowledge of the citizens, without the knowledge of the citizens of this country. And by this act, Minister Stier was violated by a consensus that existed in Croatia's foreign policy in the field of human rights, all of which made us a full member of the EU. Calling on democratic values to turn this guy around is completely unfounded. We know that a whole series of countries in the EU, headed by democratic governments, supports the reproductive rights of women, the right to reproductive health of women, the rights of same-sex communities, gender equality. A Christian does not prohibit women from abortion, does not deny the rights of same-sex communities, and you HDZ colleagues do just that. Therefore, the freedom to decide on your own body is the right of every woman. Support the Dutch initiative, it decides, it is a substitute for Trump's abolition of aid in undeveloped countries precisely to decide on its own body. HDZ, MOST, the right hand is trying to lift this right, but this way I tell them it won't work. I call on all citizens and citizens to raise their voice and to say what kind of society they want to live in, not to lower their heads, not to see the erosion of their rights and civilizational achievements that we have achieved in the field of human rights in this country. Prime Minister Plenkovic also did not fence himself from statements and views of his foreign and European affairs minister, his adviser, Ladislav Ivcic, and I conclude that the government is not only silent, but promotes impatience and does nothing to prevent hate messages. While I was running the MUP I did not allow black shirts marching around Zagreb, I did it in accordance with the law and what the minister has to do and should do and such marches are really not what is in the spirit of the standards achieved in this country. We can't wait for someone to kill themselves to get the government or the institutions to react. Which is then sent to all those in Croatia, especially the violent. Go, do whatever you want, there's no way someone's going to sanction you, we're grumbling about it, even though it seems to be something that's desirable. You tolerate thugs and fascists, they have their television shows, they have their portals, you have the opportunity to help them spread hate to Croatian public space, and their word ends up like a bat in someone's hands. I want to say one thing, and that is, it's just a question of not being anymore, but it's just a question of when the blood will fall, and then the responsibility will be exclusively to you who allow it, keep quiet and support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24804	The next club to take a break is the HDZ Representatives' Club. On their behalf, MP Tomislav Klaric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24805	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. For the sake of Robert Jezić, you've all heard. For dozens of families who have lost their existence and workers who have remained without their salaries, you have also heard. You've also heard of Dino Petrochemy in Krk. What you haven't heard and what the wider Croatian public doesn't know is that there are still 600 tons of dangerous waste, dangerous chemicals in these persistent, abandoned, rusty plants. When I received this information, I made an insight into the document Dina report 20.10.2016 with all the contributions. I call on all of you who are interested to look at it because it highlights the e-mail plate of the Trade Court in Rijeka, all you need to do is type up the OIB Dinas only and you will get reports and findings and the report from the bankruptcy manager, Ms. Marija Ruzic. So, in these reports, it's taxing that all chemicals are contained, there's still 600 tons of dangerous chemicals, and according to the allegations of no adequate protection, and that's a threat to the lives and health of people. What did we answer for? I announced this question about a month ago, but I didn't get an answer. The fact is, according to what we saw and had insight into the files, that even last year, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of the Interior made quite a comment on whose responsibility it was to protect all of this. The proposals for conclusions for the government have also been prepared, and I have come to the floor since the citizens of that part of the Croatian coast and the island of Krk have also come to note, regardless of the party's commitment to care or to worry about what will happen with all this. I therefore also appeal to the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection to prepare as quickly as possible proposals that have already been prepared, to put them on the government's session and agenda and to find adequate protection for these chemicals and to find the right model of their care. It is not necessary to say what it represents for health, for the environment, for the space not only of that part of the island of Krk but of the whole part of the Croatian coast and of the citizens who are there. This is not a calling for anyone, this is an appeal to speed up procedures because planning something can take years, and life is happening now and right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24806	Representative Silvano Hrelja will speak on behalf of HNS-HSU's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24807	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. You all know very well that in the Pension Insurance Act there are so-called. Retiring pensions twice a year, so every six months. It is based on the rise in prices, i.e. the cost of life and the growth of wages. The end of February is the time when we learn statistics for the past 6 months. And unfortunately these statistics are negative. Compared to 2015, 2016 has a reduction in salary and cost of life, i.e. a rise in prices is also a negative index. That means unfortunately there won't be a pension adjustment. It's very sad news for Croatian pensioners. And I call on the government for immediate action. For what? Because he's taking part in what's-his-name. Replacement rate, pension rate, average pensions in the average salary fall. What's he falling for? It's going down because when an older worker retires, a younger one comes in with a lower salary, so there's a smaller contribution. When a senior pensioner dies, a high pension or higher pension is lost, a younger pensioner gets into retirement, makes a smaller pension. So we have this trend of a constant slow, slow, slow fall. If we had such a situation as you had as a coalition government, if we had 6 months in a row of growth indicators and industrial production and GDP growth, then we would certainly have applied what we intended and this is an extraordinary 3rd pension coordination in line with GDP growth. Unfortunately, the government wrote something in the government program, and I'm keeping it. There is only one goal about pensioners and one simply extended sentence. The government's policy will focus on meeting the following specific objectives and only one. The government will ensure a decent life for pensioners, including a 5% pension increase by the end of the term of office, the introduction of a national pension and the provision of voluntary labour market remains after 65 years. This last one is possible if there's an interest in the work of a pensioner, so there's nothing new to be invented. So 5% by the end of the term. You know there's about 400 million kuna in the budget. So there's no excuse now but it's not foreseen by the budget. So someone thought there'd be salary growth, when he planned the budget and he didn't have it, he thought it would be possible to increase the cost of living and not have them because there's ruthless competition in the trade. It's not good for our farmers because they get the price and they don't survive. Therefore, all these indicators have led to this situation that all of them are somehow covered by this let's say positive energy in society, GDP growth, and these are the most beautiful news and one large number of them, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, one million and 230 thousand pensioners except those who got it because they have a pension greater than 6 thousand and the tax reform remains short for any increase in pension. So, I call on the Government, in cooperation with pensioners' associations, with the National Council for Retired People and the Elderly, to urgently discuss this position, can freely increase pensions by around 1% for 2017 because there is room in the budget and can financially endure it. So this is not a criticism, this is just encouraging the government to react to a very difficult situation for Croatian pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24808	The MOST advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will speak MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24809	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the past 5 years in the area of the Republic of Croatia, the number of inhabitants has decreased by 110 thousand people or for the entire Dubrovnik-Neretva County or to compare Lika-Senj County and Dalmatia Zagora. The fact is that here my former colleague has called for the people to raise their heads, but these and those policies that he and his colleagues conducted have led that people to raise their heads and we here in the Parliament and in the Government to put their heads down because we remember the people mainly in the areas of the mountain-mounted, undeveloped areas that were the source of human potential and resources like this. Dalmatian Zagora, such as A character, like Slavonia, today is a burned country. Today we have empty school buildings, today we have these areas that are definitely burned ground. We see that the last days as the elections get closer, of course I'm in the elections, we'll all be in the elections, but it's a pity that the political wants at the level of the county, the government, the opposition only remembers those areas at the time of the election campaigns, these are facts. So you remember that my Sinjsko polje exists and that food can be produced, the mayor remembers two days before the election itself. That's amazing. So in all areas. The number of under 20 has been reduced. We don't have any young people at all. And this statistical data that I'm now speaking only in the area of the Imot area that had 50,000 inhabitants 20 years ago has fallen below 20 today. In the area of the Cetina region that had... thousands now have 48 thousand and certainly less because many of our children go to other countries and no longer return. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our birthplaces are empty, the Drain area is bare. Only where the state influences and this is the exploitation of these parts, both like, the Dalmatian burns, and Slavonia. Is it just that in these parts children do not have free textbooks, and in Zagreb they have free textbooks, and we know that the primary school is mandatory, according to the law. Is it fair that these parents do not have an organized transport to school, for of course transporters are eligible and do not want non-erable lines. If policy is not implemented in a way that invests in these areas, but not only through legal incentives that are unfair. In 2014, the government adopted Zoran Milanovic's new Law on the hill-mounted area of regional development, where it declared developed areas of undeveloped areas to be politically attached to other groups. It's a cry. This isn't a request. I'm the one who didn't support the budget for this. I didn't support the budget for this, nor will I support the next budget if these things don't change. Because those colleagues who say the people have to lift their heads I don't want to walk their heads down between those people who sent me here. That is why I call on all those who run this country to direct urgent policies not only populistally to a couple, thousands of euros or 100 euros for newborns, but to organise living conditions for young families in those areas that are leaving us, and these ends are extinct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24810	The SDSS representative club has requested a break. In their name will speak MP Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24811	Dear Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues The Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party wants to express concern over the fact that we have been recording an increasing increase in hate speech and attacks on members of the ethnic community lately, above all on members of the Serb community, their institutions and their representatives. In the most challenging wartime of respected colleagues and colleagues who have not sat here in the Parliament, those who have sat down should not say that we have not recorded that representatives, elected MPs in the Assembly have been expelled from the Republic of Croatia for several times in the last two months. They're required to be deprived of their citizenship. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. Tomorrow, when the Serbian National Council publishes a bulletin on documented examples of hate speech that over three hundred registered, recorded in 2016, are likely to remain silent. I don't understand why. Aren't minorities, respected colleagues and colleagues the mirror of each majority? And isn't what the members of the national minorities hear a mirror of what shouldn't be the majority or what the majority should be. And instead of caring about that, and instead of being dedicated to that thing, we hear, we read from the media on the basis of incomplete information on the fact that a report by the European Commission dealing with the needs of the UN standards is not even mentioned by members of national minorities, not even a question of human rights, but a question of freedom of religion is mentioned. And it is not said which freedoms of religion, for it is a very broad term and assumes the most diverse freedoms for those who believe and for those who disbelieve. And for those who believe are members of one church, and for those who believe who are members of another church. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that if some document has not been passed by the Government, if some document has not passed the bodies of this House, then it is necessary that at least the bodies of this Parliament get an insight into this document. It is unfair for the Parliament to agree or disagree on some issues, but it is unfair that such important issues as are part of our internal policy, but fundamental constitutional values, fundamental legal values that regulate the issue of human rights, the issue of health, the issue of sexual relations and marriage, the family that are not the same as marriage, that the competent bodies of the Parliament have no information, but that they read from what is published in the paper, and which doesn't have to be true, at least not complete truth. And for this reason, on the basis of the talks I have had and with the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities, Dr. We're working on asking the Foreign Ministry to issue a document that has not been discussed by the Government, which we haven't discussed here either, to let the committee discuss it. And as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I also consider the chairman of the same committee recently, since human rights policy is one of the fundamental policies of each country, that the document should be put to the attention of both the committee and the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24812	The HDZ Representatives' Club, HSLS, HDSSB asked for a break and, on their behalf, representative Branko Hrg will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u24813	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This is the time when congregations of voluntary fire companies are held and is very alive on the ground, especially in this part of continental Croatia where every village has a voluntary fire company that is basically a guardian of life in the village and where something is happening, where DVDs exist there are activities where and where more significant than places where there is no. And of course, when you go around the field, you visit these congregations, you talk to people, the Križevci are by ratios of population ratios and the number of volunteer firefighters the first city in Croatia as a city, then you come up with all kinds of information. And to that right, I was invited here today to speak publicly of some deviations that are happening in a fire-command system that is unfortunately divided. On the one hand, volunteering, Croatian Fire Department, on the other hand, we have professional fire, all of this is expensive in the State Department of Protection and Rescue, all of it is related to the Civil Protection Act. And who's getting hurt? The ones that are the most valuable. Suffering voluntary fires, the most powerful humanitarian organization. Here he sits with us at the meeting of the president of the Croatian Fire Department, the strongest organized group in the Republic of Croatia at all. And why did I ask for a break to warn of some activities carried out by the chief fire commander, Mr. Slavko Tucakovic? I looked at some of the portals that write about fire and said this way one portal "95% of the posts in the last four years talk about Slavko Tucakovic and donations". The text always says it didn't come empty-handed, but it brought equipment worth, I don't know, 20, 30, 50, 100, 200 thousand kuna. And I wouldn't mind it, I agree that DVDs should be given equipment, that they should be equipped but there's a very clear system of command and control in the fire. There are fire communities of municipalities and cities on the basis of which practically plans to protect and rescue, protection from fire, and then I don't understand how the commander of the chief fire commander can come into the DVD without going through the fire departments without knowing the equipment plan to be delivered. And then it was even less clear to me why the chief fire chief was cheating on the public because he came to the Cross. So the title was “Cristian firefighters get 200 thousand kuna worth of equipment”, which is very much so. And then I asked for an offer for that equipment from the companies that deal in sales and got the price of 52 thousand 560 kuna. Now I'm asking myself, how much did the chief fire commander divide those equipment into real DVDs written on the portals of about 800,000 kunas, if only on one example is about 25% the real value of that equipment. And what's the point and purpose? Is it possible that the purpose of this activity by the chief fire chief is that he is the head of the SDP County Organisation and is preparing for local elections for mayoral candidacy? Is that the plan? Is that the goal? Does he use his position as chief fire commander for that purpose using the RS equipment? And then I ask another question and I demand that he be immediately removed from the position of chief fire commander Mr. Slavko Tucakovic because he skipped the fire department because he used his position as chief commander in the past rules, without a public competition, without calling and sharing equipment apparently far less valuable than he shows it. And then I ask the question of investigating, at what price is this equipment obtained? Did the main command get that equipment at the prices of Mr. Tucakovic or those prices that were actually given in the stores dealing with the sale of these equipment? I'm calling for this to be really investigated. I will also make a written request and a written question and ask that this be resolved because Mr. Tucakovic no longer deserves to be chief fire chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32186	Thank you. After this, we move on to the agenda. The first item of the agenda is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Construction Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 94 The Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. Contributions to the bill are not multiplied but are found on the Croatian Assembly website. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. The Government has submitted an amendment that becomes an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 202. Rules of Procedure. The amendment was also submitted by the Legislative Committee. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Lovro Kuscevic, minister of construction and spatial planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32187	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of the Assembly and MPs, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, I welcome you all very much. Here is today the proposal for a law on amendments to the Construction Act with a final draft of the law. With this proposal for amendments and additions, we will settle basic issues such as, a new sorting of buildings is required in view of the complexity of construction, rather than in view of the so far 5 groups per 3 groups. Allowed construction deviations that can be applied to buildings and other buildings are arranged, i.e. to all the buildings instead of just the buildings. It shall be possible for the project’s project designer to arrange the project’s design obligation if necessary. The issue of setting out specific conditions and confirming the main project for construction works for which no local authorisation is issued shall be settled. It shall be possible to derogate from the building permit with regard to the way in which the basic requirements for construction are met before the change of the civil permit, so that the amendment or addition of the building permit has to be made prior to the submission of the application for the authorisation of use. Cases in which a call for insight into the case file is submitted by a public invitation shall be extended if the building permit is issued for construction of a building building on a building particle formed from 10 or more properties or for the construction of a building within the scope of the procedure in the space consisting of 10 or more properties and persons whose address is not entered in the land book or catastra for unknown heirs and persons unknown residences, i.e. seats. The fiction of evidence of legal interest for the issue of a building permit for construction of interest for the Republic of Croatia and on land owned by the Republic of Croatia and on land owned by local and regional self-government. The possibility of extending the period of validity of the construction permit for 3+3 years shall be introduced. It shall be prescribed to adopt a solution on the municipal contribution by virtue of the power of the building permit instead of the enforcement of the same. The issue of issuing a temporary use permit for buildings whose construction is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia should not be established. The adoption of a Regulation governing the way in which the technical examination is carried out. It shall be possible to record buildings in the cataster and land books without a valid permit, of course, with a notice that it is not attached. An obligation to record under the official duty of the building for which an applicable permit has been issued in the water cataster shall be introduced. Issues related to the energy efficiency of buildings are being settled. The obligations of the owner of buildings relating to regular inspections of the heating, cooling or air conditioning systems and the need to obtain an energy certificate of the building and a series of nomotechnical improvements and content improvements of this law shall be reduced. Here, the proposer of this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is convinced that with these changes and additions, it will significantly improve the construction system, speed up, facilitate investments, especially strategic investments, investments of importance to the Republic of Croatia, as well as those investments of importance to local and regional self-government units. The deadline itself will allow for a better absorption of EU funds, hence the period of validity of a building permit because today it is often the case that we have a situation that due to the long-term EU procedure until the funds are valid and with this extension we will throw it out. Here I am, in accordance with everything I say, of course I am available for the day of clarification and here I propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt these amendments and supplement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32188	Representative Branko Hrg, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32189	Thank you very much. In fact, it is not a replica in terms of opposition but in terms of welcoming this extension of the construction deadline because the last law that was passed has caused enormous damage to the units of local self-government primarily in waiting for the use of EU funds. And I'm really sorry that there was no hearing and so to speak here in the assembly when that law was passed since the ministry at the time because today we have one hararium, so to speak in these projects because many building permits have failed and now my question is whether this new law in that section will be possible in some way that those permits that were then issued under one law, and then they entered into another law, so they failed by the second law because they could not be extended, are we going to be able to return these permits in some way to allow this extended deadline to be introduced for them too. If it's possible somehow in the law to predict it, it would greatly facilitate the situation on the ground. And I know very specifically, dozens have failed, dozens of building permits. Then the Act of Exclusion changed later, and there was still a problem. So one whole circus was created because of the current law that was passed in the last term.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32190	Representative Miro Bulj, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32191	Dear Ministers, when we talk about construction, then we must mention that they are good, to extend the deadlines for building, of course. And we have a problem with certain groups being eligible as teleopers for base stations, you know, to build without, base stations without the consent of local self-government, without the consent of neighbors. And we know when a citizen, ordinary, builds a balcony or wants some kind of expansion that he can't without the consent of neighbors and they have of course huge profits and it's questionable by the health Federation, so in all studies it's harmful to health. That's proven. What are you up to? I also have a proposal, here in an individual debate I will say, 4 regulations and one legal article that should be amended to be at least equal, to invest several kunas those foreign teleoperators who got the infrastructure, as they got, what our fathers and you older ones are paying for, who got free in their pocket, and one of ours certainly got it, from our political elite. What do you plan on doing with these base stations and do you intend to take any steps? And during today I will provide you with the necessary changes such as in the EU to you who have done the professional people dealing with this and whether you will do it to be consistent with as in other countries where they come from, and cannot do it as they do in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32192	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening up a debate. For participation in the debate on behalf of HNS's Club of Representatives, HSU will be represented by representative Anka Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32193	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister of State and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments and additions to the Construction Act with a final proposal. This means first and second reading and that means that eventually improvements can be made through amendments. I'm normally of the opinion that no law is carved into stone, that every law should be closely monitored and that changes should also be made and complemented in accordance with the changes that are in time, which are in space but can also be seen through law enforcement. And in that sense, I think it is extremely good that as soon as the law enters into force that the professional services that the law are doing so and they did so with this law that entered into force 1.1.2014. I also absolutely think that when the resolution minister takes over the construction and spatial planning portfolio along with his team headed, he may have the right to direct it in some other direction and with some other ideas. However, I will list some of the things that are questionable. I'm going to say just as much things that I'm afraid I'm not going to be a step forward, but there's going to be a stagnation or a little step back. You can set these changes and additions to the law, i.e. we can put these into five topics. The first topic is the changes that are, which are general nature where there is little clarification of reconstruction and where one newspaper is introduced. This is in the former provision of Article 19. I think the same article 4 can be monitored more easily, which is that there are possible deviations in building buildings and that these deviations can be defined in accordance with the rules of the profession. 1.1.2014, by way of effect of the Construction Act, for the first time, we have introduced the possibility of a derogation into our legislation. This possibility of deviation was introduced for the simple reason that when you follow the resort there was one case in the city of Zagreb where the building of depth 18 m was in line with the permit issued, and then 18 m and 30 cm in nature was carried out and there were very large discussions whether to crash, not collapse, what to do. Therefore, a derogation has been introduced in the provisions of the article. But now this is Pandora's box because here in this assembly, I don't want to offend anyone, I think two architects are colleagues Babic and I. There are people in engineering professions. And I'm sure that at least two, three things when it should be in line with the rules of the profession would have every opinion and it would open up to you every thought and there would be a series of problems and the question would be who, it would end up at both the second and the Administrative Court and who would judge it. But let's see what the legislator meant, or better said, the resolution ministry along with the government. Equally, five groups of buildings were reduced to three groups. The first group according to the state spatial plan will be given the opportunity to see today or tomorrow in accordance with, therefore, the state spatial plan, the amendments to the Law on Spatial Arrangement that this year is 21. So, in the first group, we don't. The third group is what the Simple Building Regulation defines as not having to result in a building permit and we are left with another group. In that second group is everything from a family home to a large factory or a large hotel, and it will certainly lead to a bit of confusion. The Tax Regulation will have to be changed urgently, as it will now have 14000 kuna for the family home, as it is now in the second group of taxes. I guess it wasn't meant to be that way or if it was wanted to be said out loud. But that's also going to be one problem that's going to have to be dealt with urgently. And one problem which is essential, you know Croatia as a country is also positioned on the Doing Business scale. One of the topics on the Dong Business scale is the theme of building permits. I'm not saying that we have to look at and be in standards that are, but that's something to be taken care of. Any introduction of additional special conditions, any introduction of the investor's obligation under this law, will be a fall on the Doing Business scale, so it should be prepared and prepared for this. The second topic is the topic of energy efficiency. So there are some things that are still clarified, some things that are defined. Energy efficiency is absolutely a newspaper in these areas, although I have to say that the last ten years have been building buildings according to energy efficiency and that they are class B and A, which speaks well of our construction. But there's one provision that says you need a certificate for buildings that are occasionally used for up to 4 months. Now, for four months, I'm curious about how someone will determine by means of two witnesses, by word of honor, by means of something else. So that's something. Any provision that is somehow questionable or that determines is indeed problematic. The third group is related to the construction and there is already an esteemed colleague, Hrg, praised that building permits will be worth three plus three years. I have my doubts here. That's the question I said on the board, and I'm going to repeat it this hour. So, you issue a building permit and then after six years you start building. In six years, things have changed in these areas, and in the areas of Europe. What are the changes today, the strongest changes are related to construction products where new construction products are introduced, where environmental standards are introduced, and we can objectively experience the following situation, that buildings or buildings when we start building there in the sixth year, and ended in the eighth year since the issue of a building permit that those in terms of building materials that will be used are obsolete which somehow the investor should have decided. But it can also happen to us that the construction materials provided for at the time when construction is being built may not even be acceptable from the aspect of the standards that are in the EU, and I note very often that I talk about directives and often say that there is no need to overwrite the directive blindly. The directives are in principle when it comes to construction products, then the directives are in principle speaking you are standards that should be, and each Member State adapts it to its own conditions and to its own way. But there are some standards and standards that have recently been extremely strong, which are really considered from the aspect of environmental protection and each year change to be more acceptable and environmentally acceptable to all climate change and everything. And there's my main concern, that maybe the ministry decided to go back to that two plus two option I think it would be more acceptable if it was already wanted to extend the building permit, three plus three is a big question mark above my head and I'm afraid. That's what I'm saying as someone who deals with spatial order and who cares about the subject of real space protection. The fourth group of amendments to this law refers to implementation and here we have something that we have to say clearly and loudly from this pay phone. Therefore, the State or the Republic of Croatia on its real estates, whether or not they are line facilities, whether or not they are the least water accounts. The problem puts under the carpet and I like to say that you know when you put under the carpet then you put, you put, you put in one hour that pile is big and you snap. What do I mean? Here is the possibility to issue a building permit and, consequently, to issue a valid permit without the extradition procedure being completed and we understand why this amendment to the law is. It's an investment that should be given a valid permit these days and, of course, not all those who haven't done the job, but is always the culprit of the resolution ministry that now has some kind of problem, and I told the minister. I don't have any problem with repeating here and that someone else in his place is difficult to maybe have the strength to do something other than walk a line of less resistance because then says construction doesn't betray. We're going to have to conduct the exorcisms. We only have the highway Zagreb-Split and I won't speak any further. The highway is not registered in the catastra, that highway is not registered in the garland, that highway has issued construction permits, has issued and used permits, but those highways have not been subject to the privileges that should have been exercised. It's only a matter of time before someone at one of the following service facilities, and the one in Skradin is well known to us because that beautiful object is so we look at Skradin, there's no extradition procedure there, and there's not even a record of who's to whom he's paid. It's only a matter of time before some of the skilled lawyers come and say it's mine. So, the point is to do the expropriation, to make a simple law of expropriation and to enforce the execution. We've only solved the current problem in this way, but we haven't solved the essential problem. What if there was some kind of policy or political commitment so we could say highways we'd do something with them. They are legal in terms of documents because they have building and useful permits, but when you go to the garnery you'll find old grants and you'll find some other property and some other owners. It can be solved through exorcisms and it needs to be solved. So some of our countries that are in our closer or further environment have had the same or similar problem and have solved this with a law relatively expedient and that is the essence of the problem. This is how we return the problem to construction, construction will issue construction permits for non-execution, and behind that construction will also issue temporary useful permits and after the temporary use of the permit and the normal use of the permit. But what's the point of the problem is it won't be solved. We may be a little naive, but I would say very responsibly we wanted and say, the state first has to show by its example how it is done because we somehow convinced our citizens and we tell our citizens we need to solve their property, you need to solve their buildings, you need to have them legal, you need to put them in the cadastre and the garter, this state should be in real condition, you need to solve your property relations, we don't do it adequately. This needs clear and loud words and the essence of the strategic investment problem, and we always come up with that fundamental problem of property law relations and we come up with a problem of expropriation. Similarly, Croatia is one of the few countries that has a separate cadastre and grantovnica. I'm sure, you know, sometimes a man says that my mind is, or my mind right now, that I used to be, I'm sure that maximum energy should be done with one law and tied up by a cadastre and a garland. It's less important if it's going to be in one place but it's important that one be a process and it's seen here. Similarly, the possibility of issuing a permit is one temporary building permit, it was defined by concrete stations connected to each building site, along with gas tanks was removed which is ok, but is now left for joints and replacements and roads. I have a dilemma about it, you know, when you make the road hard to change, but otherwise, I don't think that all roads can and can't be planned to the end of the spatial plan, so maybe there's a little retreat. This law also puts us back in step because we allow objects to be entered in the garter without the necessary permits. So there's another note that doesn't have a valid license, it'll cause a sure mess. Because you know, our citizens, we're willing to change things somehow, I don't think it's a good decision, I think it's a much better decision to still insist on using the permit for the simple reason that a large number of our citizens were convinced, we're enlisted in a garter, our house is legal. That's not the way it is. The house is legal when it has a valid permit that says it was built in accordance with the building permit until the end, if we will. We're going to re-enable the enrollment of the building permit, and now we have this detachment topic, I'm afraid we're going to make a mess here. The part of the garter is that when you provide her with the data, then from the catastrophe along with all of it she enrolls. The role of a man who works in a garter isn't to control whether something is in accordance with the law or anything, he gets papers and implements those papers. So we've had a pretty big problem with these enrollments in the garter, so the note doesn't have a building permit, there's no applicable permit. We're reopening that problem without a valid permit. I guess there's a reason for that. I would honestly prefer that this law shows another step, some small step forward, this law is not but about Doing Business very quickly will see the consequences, changes to this law on the Doing Business scale because for some things that did not require special conditions, there will be a need for special conditions and everyone who deals with this we know what that means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32194	Representative Branko Bačić reported first to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32195	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Dark-Taritash, I don't have a lot of time to get some things I don't agree with. I'll just say two things. The first thing that relates to deviations in the course of the construction of the main project. I can partly agree that the rules of the profession will not say much, that they are general. But I don't think that's even the solution that was by... The 3% bill, and the maximum... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During construction, if the main project is deviated and does not enter the core requirements of the building and do not change the location conditions, then it is exclusively the relationship between investors, designers, supervisory engineers and performers. And that's when it's all settled. In this way and in the way that it used to be opened, it raises a number of questions in the realisation of the building. The second thing when you talk about the Law on Exclusion, as if you listened to us from the opposition when we were, when we spoke all of these remarks in 2014, 22 May 2014 was passed the Law on Exclusion and a large part of what you said was at the time on this side of the assembly any word that the Law on Privileges would not speed up the authority and would not allow faster implementation, primarily strategic and investment projects and any other authority to run the state or unit of local self-government. And the third thing I don't agree with is I'm not in favor of bringing together a cadasar and a land book, which is, in principle, "Two bad murderers of Milos". Nor will it be when the catastre and the earth's book are united, yet again it will be a bad catastre and it will be a bad land's book. There'll be two bad records in one place. Therefore, before that should be done, but when the time comes, I will address the issue of catastra arrangement... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32196	Thank you, Agent Bacic, thank you. Representative Dark-Taritash, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32197	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bačić, we've known each other for many years and in some things we agree, in some things we disagree. I'm glad that somehow when you draw a line, I think there are more things that we agree on than no, but that's just talking about our long-term experience. Someone's got hair sitting around and they're painting and somebody's not, so it just means that we've been working in these places for a long time. And we had opportunities to participate in everything. So you've opened 3 themes, the first topic is a deviation, so we're, for the first time, the possibility of a derogation being introduced in 2014. I really, my experience is that it's Pandora's box, and everyone's going to see how I can step down and pay a little less communal, so this, and then I'm going to stand down, and it's not going to be seen, so it's going to be a meter like this and it's going to be like this. These are our spaces as they are. When it comes to expropriation, you know the opportunity is now to get some things done and done. The exorcism is really the fundamental problem of this country, the exorcism is something we're slow about. We have some, we have some examples on the outside, and we certainly need to spend it faster because like this, I tell you and I often say, you know, the job of construction is like a train to you and then you from that train to go faster, try to get everyone out, and we're struggling with these special conditions how it's going to be, so the role of investors. We can't go as fast as anyone else can put their problems on that train. So this way, by amending the law, construction rights have admitted that it solves a problem of expropriation that has not been made. If there was an expropriation on time, this amendment to the law in that part shouldn't. And the third theme of catastrophe and granite. It's not about them getting together, it's about being one procedure. We have a special procedure in the catastro, a special procedure in the garter, we have several solutions, we have several options of appeal, the subject is the process, not the subject of physical merger.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32198	Thank you, on time. Representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32199	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I listened very carefully to you colleagues Mrak-Taritash as you discussed but I did not, of course, listen to what colleagues Hrg and Bačić replicated what the minister, which you did, so I will refer to you because you were talking about one and the other. I'll just remind you that the construction permit institute 2+2 hasn't been since yesterday, or since the day before yesterday, while our coalition was in power, but it's something that lasts for almost two decades, I can speak based on what I remember. After I graduated college and it was just a practice. And now the arguments that exist about the changes, about the potential changes in the spatial plan, spatial plans should also be applied, but here I also understand the fact that the projects made by the units of local self-government are the outcome of the building permit, that they need to be met. Maybe make some kind of a difference to the one who's applying, here's my thinking out loud. I also made the same remarks on the board as my colleagues, but I would add the same to my colleague Bacic. The fact that if, what is allowed is the detachment of buildings. Maybe it was too much to say before or the same thing when we leave, here I am going to throw out the banal math. If the object is 10x10x10 it's 1000 cubics. 10.30 x 10.30 x 10.30 is almost 1100 cubes. We have 1,000 cc's of difference. But you in this way this change of yours, as I said on the board, we may be introducing too much of a licensed official, who gives him a useful license, because he is given too much space to interpret what is written and how it was done. In some cases, it can go the wrong way, and we can have the fact that we know that they're officials. who issue licenses stricter and less stricter. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32200	Replicate response, MP Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32201	My colleague Babic, so we also talked about it on the board. You know if you decide to amend such a provision then there should always be little information for that. So a little bit to see how much a deviation is now, do we have, how much we have, how much a problem it is because this is between a provision that gave you the possibility of a derogation I'm repeating so far we haven't had up to one option a lot of liberal options. I'm afraid here and what you said, so this light math has shown a hundred cubic differences. There are a lot of mayors here, the mayors who are now and they know about what it means about what the cubic differences are about the communal contribution. And we also know what that will mean one day on the record. So there will certainly be a new field of problems. Now more, therefore, possible deviations, so at a small house like this, a hundred cc's of difference will not be paid. The question of what will be recorded in the cadastre, the question of whether it can get a valid permit, and if it can be entered in the garter without a valid permit. But then, that's one group of problems. There's probably a reason why it went with that bill change, but you're going with the law change when you already know something's your problem. So, I'm afraid there was some kind of decision here that wasn't really based on some kind of analysis. I like it a lot better when decisions are based on a certain analysis. As I understand why it came out of the validity law, I also understand why the temporary use permit extended to two years. So, we're about to issue a procedure for the Airport, and we can't tie our hands there. And one of the reasons why this law is in emergency procedures and everything is together and related to it. But that's where I find the alibi. That's what I said to the minister on the board, And I repeat that now. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32202	Thank you. Representative Branko Hrg is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32203	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, you said that every law should be closely monitored in its implementation, and I was already in that part of the first replicating Mr. Minister to mention the problem. Now my colleague Babic has mentioned one thing. Yeah, it was 2 plus 2, two years plus two years, so then by the law that was passed by your government, you were a minister, you were suspended, so it was put down for three years. And now it's offered for three years plus three years. It's not clear to me today, so I'm going to ask you about this role as colleagues in the Parliament why you've stubbornly stayed at that position for three years, and you didn't at least want to put one sentence in the final terms that previously issued building permits under that law are actually up to the end of the water, so I can extend two plus two. Are you aware by following the law how much damage was done by losing building permits? The law of exorcism, that's what we're talking about. So he changed after that construction law, same time as your government and further complicated things and created additional costs. We killed ourselves at local levels by keeping these building permits and looking for ways to even maintain them and preserve them and make new ones, we made new costs. You are aware of how much damage and material and financial you have done in the Republic of Croatia in that part, by not allowing the extension of building permits under the law under which they were issued to keep building permits for European projects. I can tell you very specifically how much costs have been incurred in the area of the town of Križevci where we've issued 84 permits, we're still fighting them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32204	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32205	Comrade Hrg, you have such a bitter debate, so let me remind you that this is not about building permits at all, but about confirmations of the main project that are an irregular act. So, in order to speed up certain procedures, in order to simplify something at one hour were instead of building permits we had in place a building permit for demanding facilities, we had confirmations on the main project that were an irregular act. And so, we had absolutely a lot of problems with the state level to explain to EU funds that there was a building permit in Croatia, that there was a confirmation in Croatia of the main project, which was an irregular act, which could have been extended if the location conditions had not changed, that local permits had been viewed, that the location permits had defined the phase. And by amending the law, or the law that is now being amended, it was not possible to do so in the sense of who is then asked to work. And why was it a building permit for three years? Because the whole idea of the Construction Act was that a building permit would end at a time when someone was thinking of doing something, not by building a permit to protect their position in space, to protect the building permit possibly from any other changes and other things. And it was estimated at the time that those three years were quite enough from the time when a building permit was issued to apply and carry out a procedure related to EU funds and what was needed. By law then you also nodded your head, you did not want to understand that the law was not possible to confirm the main project which was an irregular act and which was two years old that it was not possible by that law to convert the certificates issued into an administrative act and to extend the time limit for them because it was simply not possible because it was the difference between administrative and irregular act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32206	Thank you. The Club of Representatives of the SDP applied for participation in the debate and will speak for them by representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32207	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. Here is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Construction Act. The basic law on construction came into force on 1 January 2014. This law regulates the design, construction, use of building maintenance and implementation of administrative and other procedures related to this area. In the materials that we have received the first reason to state that this amendment and the amendments to the law today are in the debate under an emergency procedure, it has been observed that individual institutes of this law are making it difficult or slowing down the possibility of starting construction and issuing useful permits for more capital buildings. In particular, it is considered to be an obligation to form a building particle in a cataster as a condition for accessing construction on the basis of a powerful building permit or the inability to issue a useful building permit for which no building particle has been formed in the cataster for a generally known reason for the slow resolution of property legal relations. And as we have already heard in the debate several times on the parent board, the main problem is the extradition. In materials, and also in the draft law of the Minister, we are talking about capital projects. I would only give one suggestion in the sense that here and in the assembly there are plenty of local self-government units leaders that happen similarly when the licenses are executed and when they try to build infrastructure facilities that are not in the jurisdiction of the state and there is also a problem of expropriation. I honestly would be lying right now if I had a solution, but maybe the same reason is for another debate and a possible amendment to this law is that we know how difficult it is to form a cadastral particle for a particular infrastructure project so that everything can be brought down from building to using a permit. What you're all about in the bill, I can, in principle, support a good part of it and hope that the law will really work better, because as I have made comments on the committee, I'm going to do it now. My first point is about sorting out buildings because I find it unacceptable that the first category buildings that are capital projects, so let's say the Pelješki bridge or the airport are in the first category, and in the third category there's some kind of shed or garage, and in the second category there's all other facilities. In a way, we're sort of banalizing the way we build and according to demand... putting too many buildings into one group. According to that logic, things could only be done by two groups, what's important to the state and what's not. I think it was better an old suggestion. Here in the replica I also referred to the permission of the concession I think and I stand still in that we are now more introducing this subjective approach assessment whether something is in line with the location conditions, not, the rules of the profession or not, opening too much space to result in a permit for objects that maybe when someone looks at the technical documentation will determine that it's really not the same, but they'll get caught on the location conditions so that such a thing will pass. And I'm definitely saying that it's going to be very, very dependent on a license officer who's running the procedure, so we're going to have a situation where you won't get a useful license because of the banal stuff, and in second place, you're going to do a miracle, and you're going to get a useful permit. You are also calling in the law to comply with the European Directive in order to resolve the energy efficiency of the brackets, and my remark is that you are, and you promised this in the campaign that you will not ask for an energy certificate for residential buildings in which you are not resident for more than four months. I think it's hard to determine and that many will be led by simply not needing that certificate. I estimate it's not a big commitment since the vast majority of them have to come out. And who has such an object, so let him come out for it if he makes a living on it. I like the fact that you are introducing the concept of an implementing project, but as I also said on the board, give the designer an opportunity to determine in the main project what the implementation project needs. It can really happen that a person writes that everything in a person's life needs an implementing project, so here's what might be in some rule book to determine what it really needs to be implemented for so there's no doubt in the future. You wouldn't owe him anything too much. In the replica, I was talking about extending the validity of the building permit. Gruntovnica, now here's the entry of buildings without a valid permit we're going back a little bit, but here you may have until the law of time to change that decision by amendment. Based on all this stuff you've put out and what's changed in the law, I believe the SDP club will support your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32208	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vedran Babic. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32209	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Babic, you mentioned this division to groups so from 5 to 3. I have to say it one more time. So the first group is gone, because this first group is related to a state spatial plan it doesn't have. The third group is the one that is related to the possibilities, i.e. the regulation for buildings and buildings that can be operated without a location and without a building permit and is actually the only group left. And what I do in principle if it's decided by the Ministry I don't see that problem. But why was it divided into 5 groups? It was for the simple reason that there was the possibility of issuing building permits without special conditions when these special conditions could be read out of spatial plans. All of us who have been doing this job for a long time know that what we're dealing with and where we're dealing with something are special conditions. Special conditions last long, they are slow, very often not refer to a spatial plan but when they give consent to a spatial plan, give consent to the plan and then condition something else. And let me warn you again from this place I'm kind of trying to warn you about some things, I'm not that bad, so I'm saying I told you when it happened. Due to these specific conditions of introduction, therefore for certain groups, special conditions must apply to all. Those amendments to the laws that are related to the additional obligations of investors because the basic law was that the designer is doing everything for the investor, now we have introduced the investor Croatia will fall on the Doing Business scale and you need to take care of it and explain it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32210	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mrak-Taritash, on the line. Answer, dear colleague Vedran Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32211	Here's colleague Mrak-Taritash I can only thank you for supplementing me in the explanation and for the fact that the old categorization, or even at this point in time, was better. I'm just in my debate a little banalizing, so I wanted to, so I said I could make out two of three, but everything you said stands, we have nothing to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32212	I thank my esteemed colleague Babic for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Babić, I don't see what the problem is to step away from the public project during the construction if this does not change the basic conditions of the building and if the location conditions do not change. What you've been... show that with 3% you can get another 100 cubic meters on the big building, I think you should prevent it in a way that does not avoid reducing the example of municipal contribution, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can simply be solved through technical... buildings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is no problem and I do not see what would be the problem if during the construction it was determined that something needs to be changed in the project and that, and I do not say, does not deviate from the basic requirements of the building and related to the location conditions. And as far as we're concerned, express our skepticism as to why we're re-enabled to re-enter the building without a valid permit in the land book. I don't know why and the builders, the architects keep expecting the geodesy not to enforce their own law. In fact, if there's a building built on the ground, we're legally required to record it. That she was enrolled in a land book and yet in a note in... that nothing has been achieved by the owner, except that it is a state, which is a local self-government, which is a society aware that there is a building there without administrative permission and only rightly so that it is recorded in the cataster because of the urgency of the situation on the ground and in the cataster and in the grantshop. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if the owner doesn't have a valid permit, he won't get any other right than that, his position is as if he wasn't listed in the land book. But I think the state, the society must record large, small objects in its two basic spatial records. And we shouldn't run from it. We put her in and then let her suffer the consequences through the inspection, through everything else that she must bear that same owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32214	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32215	Thank you. Here's my colleague Bacic, I'm giving you the right to do what you said, so be it. You're a Geodette, I'm an architect. I allow you to be right, but the first thing you've replicated to me is from your own experience as a designer in communication with officials who issue building permits and useful permits. I'm afraid people are given too much space to decide what's in accordance with location conditions, which is not. I'm sure we'll have cases that one investor's little investor thing for anyone, we can accidentally tell a joke while it's going to go through everything alive in another place. Believe me, that's right. I know that when I was doing the project documentation that I had to know what project documentation was supposed to look like for Daruvar, how for Bjelovar, how for Gareshnica because they interpreted the same things differently. I'm just opening up an argument to think about it and we're not going to have any element to assess whether the clerk was right or wrong. Or we'll have no idea. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32216	I thank my esteemed colleague Babic for his reply to the replica. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, distinguished colleague Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32217	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, state secretary, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, we have also come forward for this debate because we believe that this area when it comes to construction, construction and coordination with the European Union is very important and we all advocate that this area is being regulated, through a legislative framework to facilitate investors' entry into investment and to assist local and regional self-government units in quality preparation of acts that will enable investment in their area. And on the other hand, of course we are interested in attracting as much investment as possible to the Republic of Croatia, and therefore here we welcome that this law shows this desire and that in this way Croatia wants to be shown as a suitable investment area and that it can speed up the adoption of acts, registration of buildings, and that it also causes certain problems which are here and in this debate we are looking for clarifications. Because through the public debate that was held, there were a series of questions, proposals for changes. Some are done, some are not. Some are already mentioned here. I'll do some, and I'll do it again. But here is the brief opinion of the City Association that the conditions for issuing works for buildings that have only the terms of accession, so for individual housing buildings, are unnecessary. This remark concerns Article 2 on the classification of buildings, Article 16 of expert supervision, etc. It is also mentioned in Article 4 that we also propose to define more precisely what the location conditions are, compliance with which no changes in spatial arrangement or with the project are allowed. Indetermination in this sense, which is a derogation under the rules of the profession will allow for different interpretations, and the inequality of practice will be particularly harmful and inadmissible. We have a specific example. And in the current law, 3% of that 30 cm is allowed, and this does not affect the fulfilment of the basic requirements, which is a rather vague and flexible term, although the current 3% is highly questionable. Therefore, our proposal is that when building a building, a derogation is allowed from the main project to, or 0,30 m, 30 cm in respect of all external dimensions. So height, width, depth and deviation from the direction of construction, i.e. from the border 0.05 m. I think that such precise normation would avoid all the different interpretations on the ground and the problems in practice. It is also from investors and the question related to Article 22. The public-legislative body shall issue at the request of the investor a confirmation of the main project which has been developed in accordance with specific conditions within 15 days of the date of receipt of the regulatory request. The question is why there must be special conditions, because we need it to be enough for the main project to be built in accordance with the specific regulation. Because every day a delay for a particular investment is a loss in business and in this way we force larger investors to other administratively attractive destinations. Also when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Construction of Article 23 relating to Energy Certificates of Buildings, this provision is also mentioned here that no energy certificate is required for buildings, or for apartments used up to 4 months a year. We believe that it is necessary to regulate this more precisely what they are used in and it is not in line with EU Directive 2011/31/EU because these terms when apartments are used most and energy consumption is above 25% of the expected consumption of the whole year. And there we do not achieve those effects of energy efficiency, and thus local and regional self-government and competent authorities will find it difficult to control who, when and how much he has used these apartments and thus, in a certain way we create legal uncertainty and create problems for those owners of objects in operation, that he must find models to bypass, that he must establish a building or energy certificate. And I think it would be useful for them to know how much energy they spend, whether they have to invest anything else to adapt to the law, and in this way we all have an impact on reducing CO2 emissions together, space and heating the atmosphere. And it's important to mention here, even though it wasn't in this law, it's been changed, but often it's an observation from our craftsmen who have construction crafts, because by law it's their obligation to have an employed construction engineer, or a construction technician with nine years of work experience. There was also a debate with the presidents of the Chamber of crafts 6700 is a trade in the Republic of Croatia which deals with business, business and are not physically able or financially adapted to this. Because you don't even have at the Department of Employment so many construction engineers and construction technicians, nor can they get through their work size and the effects they achieve to hire an engineer. And I think that this could be settled by an act contract or a business-technical cooperation contract, as has been resolved before. And I think that this law should be amended in that direction if we are to raise the construction sector, and we know that many of these craftsmen, especially in smaller areas, do not have large investments. They do family homes and some auxiliary facilities and that's why they'd have to have a construction engineer or a construction technician. I understand the profession needs to be forced, but that the profession must understand that there is not enough money in the field to pay them financially. And that's why some close turns, work on black, and we haven't achieved any final effects. Here, and I think if this is still working so we can back the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32218	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32219	Thank you very much. My colleague encouraged me to reply because he said something in the opening part of the exhibition that I think needs to be repeated. So we all declare ourselves in this assembly no matter what side of the assembly we're sitting on and we think we should simplify the authorisation process. We think it should be much simpler, more expeditionive and everything. You know, often a man has some sort of ex-post mind. I'm not going to say that I have a second mind now, but I'm absolutely sure of one fact, and that's that the impact of the referents on the issue of building permits must be reduced minimally, so they just have to have a list of you have, you don't, you don't because there's a big space opening up there. I don't think the ministry should issue a permit at all in the future, but the permits should be issued on the ground where things happen. The ministry should only be issued for some special matters, some major state projects. And the third thing is the problem of special conditions. '86. The concept of special conditions has been introduced into our legislation. Since '86. So to this day, we can calculate ourselves that it's 31 years old, we're struggling with these special conditions. And instead of reducing them to try them somehow with all the other restaurants to agree, we have more and more each time. So look at some demanding situations these special conditions have 20 has 30, but a special condition is a condition that someone specifically defines regarding the specificity of the procedure. A special condition that someone says will connect to the sewers here or the plumbing there, is not a special condition, it is a technical condition that is directly solved. And that's why it's not good, and that's why we stressed that it's not good for the group to reduce because we've still established for all the buildings the issue of special conditions and it's going to be a step back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32220	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. The reply of the esteemed colleague Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32221	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, Anka Dark Taritash, thank you for your replica. First, and for these reasons, I have pointed out the problem of often changing the law because the main objection of all investors is that we are an insane state, that we are often changing the legislative framework and that we do not know which body is responsible for what it really is on the ground, and that this really causes uncertainty for investors to go to other destinations in some other countries where it is simpler. And I agree with you that we need to get this close down and get everything sorted out in that local and regional self-government unit where investment and happening. But then it should be said that these people are working diligently, that they have been busy since the legalisation procedures of illegally built buildings until the arrival and issue of new confirmations of major projects or building permits, that they have been sub-capacitated and that regional self-government has taken over these tasks from state administrations and employees, that there has been a lack of funding by the state and the competent ministry towards regional self-government units, and that there are specifically counties in big trouble because of their fiscal capacities, and I think that we should work out a minister along with our colleagues and with the mayors' association to solve this problem. Because I know from field practice that we have few people, that we work a lot, that they are often called inactive, and they on the other hand don't have enough desks and computers, and the counties aren't able to solve it themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32222	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32223	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today I would say again we have the Construction Act if we must surely realize that this particular legal uncertainty that stems from very frequent amendments to the law, if I have followed this well is already since '92. Let the seventh and I think it is, I welcome the efforts and I will explain and the really positive effects of this amendment. But once we'd have to make a consensus on what these positive changes are. In some ways, I see that issues are now being raised and changes in what was a positive change in 2014 have now been shown negatively in practice, and we would have to remove this very legal uncertainty and thus help and investors who want to invest to cope more easily. Do we have any change that conditions and a certain kind of need for education, education and investors and projectors and all involved in the process and, of course, those officers who participate in the issue of building permits. And that burdens the system, and I think that we should once make that consensus whether this is one final variant now, and that maybe some minor changes that won't violate investor rights. I also had a case where they had warned me about it, there was a change in legal regulation, and the investor felt that according to the old law he had been given a building permit, he felt invited to benefit naturally from the benefits of the time when he was given the permit, but with what had improved the system and in the new law to allow him to do so, however, it was not so. So you can practically do it at the time when it's been betrayed. We have these certain misunderstandings that we should make more clear. In this law I would speak through three wholes, one is building, I will call it decommissioning now, so I will explain it and the third is the possibility of manipulation and certain corruptions that occur. As far as the construction itself is concerned, I, in the light of the practice I had, welcome the extension of the deadline for the building permit, means the sustainability of the building permit three plus three. It has been stated here that it may be six years long, but why much, I agree with the materials of construction, maybe some elements, but did we empower our supervisory engineers, did we give them room for those innovations that are positive, which do not violate the important components of a project to be able to change it by their decision and that, later on in the technical review, it is acceptable. They should simply elaborate it and I don't see a change if we have such a deadline for using a building permit and there's some change that a surveillance engineer can't execute. Personally here in Germany I have just seen that the supervisory engineer becomes a construction site not owner, not investor, but a supervisory engineer is the one who manages all the works and ultimately stands behind everything that happens on the building itself. I think this will help all, primarily local self-government and other public investors, even those privates who go to funds. Because what happened to us, we had announcements at the beginning I don't know in 2011, 2012 you have funds, there will be rural development measures, at the time there were IPARD, IPA, some other sources of funding, and it was declared, we will have until that deadline the possibility of applying. What's going on? Someone didn't program it, someone didn't do their job, and those deadlines aren't maybe in those two years, they're moving in another two, three years. We got a situation someone was fast, changed spatial planning documentation, made project documentation, got a construction permit. And it's been three years, until he blinks, there's not one single contest open. Here I was in the community, and we had this situation, and it wasn't possible for any of us to report the building, the building permit expires. Who's carrying the responsibility? Is the investor who, based on the information he received and with what went on justifiably believed that he would at least be able to report his investment to such a fund? No one guarantees it'll work, but even if we give him a chance, we haven't given him a chance. I therefore welcome and speed up all procedures and place an increasing number of funds at their disposal to simply exploit building permits. What I would look back on, and that's about publishing and procedures, we see somewhere there may be and what's good and competition, who's going to be faster to issue a building permit and we're all aware if the paperwork is complete, it might be in one day. But what does it mean to complete the paperwork? Sometimes this particular legal uncertainty leads to weight in communication, and then it comes to references that may not be up-to-date. So often it happens, some referent goes on vacation, the other one doesn't take over. And I wonder how many times a tight procedure for slow references was applied in reality, we have it, but I haven't heard anywhere yet that someone has been very responsive because they challenged an investment and led to a stalemate. I also particularly welcome this provision regarding line objects on a large number of particles and strategic projects because without it, I think we are limiting ourselves especially in this key infrastructure and this is one major shift. I'd like to warn you of an item that was held at a public hearing, which is about a change of name and company. I think you should consider that this change in the name of the investor or the investor company should not constitute the basis for the impasse. I know that the obligation is 15 days and, of course, it's not just a takeover, but sometimes it's a much more complex takeover than maybe that project that's being implemented, so until we make a practical investment that's under way, we're actually threatening sanctions until it's done... We need to concentrate on the investment, not on the investor himself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's where I'd point out that the more proposer thinks about whether it's possible in that direction, means having a project to separate from the project itself. With what I've listed under the decomposition, it's a situation of all rural areas. Unfortunately, this law, honestly here in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, and I believe in other rural areas will not significantly change the situation because construction is not happening. Or very, in fact, remarkablely, rarely people move into an investment where they have some deadlines, we should finish projects at a certain time, we should not know how to get to a facade, for example. in a family home in a certain short time and with such an economic situation with limited resources, this causes uncertainty. And when we look at the buildings that are more recent constructions, let's say even from renovations. Now we have cases, sold at 5,000 euros. Now imagine buying a house on the payroll, a neat, thorough one construction and someone paying 3 to 5 thousand euros. I mean, then we're talking about a structural problem that this law can't change much, but generally if we're still making building conditions more difficult, then in such areas construction won't happen at all. And on the other hand, I'd look back at one item that I haven't seen here that's changed, and that's removing buildings that are dangerous for the environment they're in. In a large depopulation, we have numerous buildings that remain abandoned. They're primarily troubled older houses that leak through roofs, crashes, sidewalks, exits, should be taken by a communal director with a lot of documentation or inspections. But it's a very demanding operation that by one facility, such as I don't know family houses, I have an example from a neighboring one community cost 50 thousand kunas by removing. I, in my community, have probably about a hundred objects that are ready to be removed where the owners of which are not there, which would just, in some way, not want them to come to a threat either, we can't force them and everyone resents it, so it would cost 5 million kuna. I think we're going to have to be more efficient in solving such problems because making a whole planet with all these constituents, hiring specialized companies and decommissioning it will lead us to a situation where we're going to have full settlements, ruins with which we won't have a solution and it creates one and an ugly picture and doesn't really give optimism to someone who would settle in such an area. Well, here, I suggest we consider a possible simplification of the procedure so that we can get to it. Now I'd like to go to that third category, it's about possible manipulations and actually abuse of this law. We had an example when the city of Zagreb, meaning the investment that took place in the British square, someone found that the building permit was not even expended and that the works lasted and lasted more than a month and there was no construction permit. And in the end, the comment was that it was a human mistake. I mean, who we have a system if it's one human mistake. I'd say there's a series of human mistakes, and when you put the sequence together then it wouldn't belong to the error category anymore, but it's in the category of thought-out approach to do something without a building permit. Then after that, when she reacted to the public, it was settled on her neck, on her nose. I've been following the comments and the ministries, unfortunately we've come out in a short time. Violent courts are overworked anyway. They no longer consider it necessary to impose certain sanctions there. And what's the message? Can you start building without a building permit? That, so if you don't get caught you did it and we'll be back, here's the topic of legalization. You do something without a building permit, nobody notices and it stays that way and then what? The other thing I'd look back at is that's what this issue is about, what are the authorities? Because sometimes when autonomously betraying doesn't know the unit of local self-government, a city of some kind of building permit, then we can open up this very space for manipulation. I would say in this particular segment that there would have to be a change in jurisdiction, that someone couldn't give himself a building permit, because then he opened the space to read the terms and the implementation of the whole act as it suits him. And then cases like this happen. I would also, here's about the Ministry of Construction and I heard a good proposal, which is that the Ministry of Construction is exempt from issuing building permits as much as possible, especially if we look at the wind power plants problem we had, where if you look at controversial projects, building permits issued in August or in the summer of 2013 and everything else is finished by the end of 2013. I mean really one unpleasant situation when you see what that effect of these wind power plants on the whole system, on the price of electricity. Then after that, someone needs to apologize. I think we should put it down to a level where responsibility can also be called from the ministry why something has been done. This is how we get to a situation where it would justifiably wonder why there was an acceleration of the issue of a building permit. But when you read in the lobby of those wind power plants, it says, "We demand that the ministry issue a building permit within 30 days." A valid request, but when we look at everything that was further, then we see that it was actually one designed activity that led to huge damage to the Croatian people. And for one more moment, it's about a rule on simple structures and controversial antenna systems that are being set up without a building permit. When there's no building permit, there's no public eye. And of all the controversial simple buildings that are mentioned I think this is crucial and would make her, I would say, however, that you should exclude from that list and return it to the issue of a building permit without being as simple as possible. But we can see that it's causing huge problems in the perception of the public, especially those that are near such pillars. And that's something in this Regulation that may have been going for simplification, but it's created a lot of problems. With the rule of simple structures that rely on this law, here I will ask you also to keep an eye on, that investors from abroad come to us and they really, here it is, we know, and in Austria it is so, simply the buildings can start building themselves, they don't have to be an authorised builder, they can't perform the works of a type of electrical energy work that they have to have authorized. But they have, they build a project, they take it to approval to show that it's consistent with minimum norms, perform the works. They're simple objects, they're objects that give life something to solve with help I don't know relatives, friends. And then they come to us, and for such a simplest building, they have to come out practically a whole series of approvals, contract authorized builders, monitors, and that's not all. And to them it's one thing I'd say from the fact that we're not doing our best especially when we're talking exactly as a destination for improving business conditions. Thank you very much. We support it on behalf of the club, here's what we'll do to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32224	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for this debate. We have two replicas. The first line came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32225	Thank you very much. Comrade Panenić, you have made a good point in these border areas, i.e. in undeveloped areas, and unfortunately we have more and more ruins than old buildings that were once schools or family homes that were abandoned, and just that is one huge problem that the ministry would have to react to. You mentioned one very important thing, so nothing is built. Wind power stations are being built that will pay well for those areas, which the government has led with Minister Vrdoljak. That's... And there are other pillars for the base stations, the antenna pillars that you've hit well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in 2009, a building permit was abolished, so our citizens do not have the same rights as they have in the EU. So everyone here called on the EU, and we then excluded our citizens the right to participate in, so that part where they should be given some kind of consent as well as local self-government. Simple base stations, i.e. These Athens pillars put, examples I'll say in my Sinj,... a settlement wherever they think of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With the change of two points in the rulebook, it could have been the former government and the previous ones that did it, the problem would have been solved because in the amendments to the Regulation on simple and other buildings and works of the base station would have been inserted, in fact, they would have been entitled to, as for all other, the same rights. However, that was convenient. That is why Croatia is also one of the most corrupt countries in the EU, because these telecom operators are boasting, and local self-government has nothing to do with it, because there is no public fee and it simply cannot function anymore. That's why I said I had a prepared proposal, and here on behalf of the Most, you said that I would personally hand over to the minister in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32226	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. Answer, dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32227	Dear colleague Bulj, of course it's very embarrassing to be the head of a local self-government in which it can happen that a log from such a ruinous house falls on someone's head and then seek responsibility, especially in the smaller environments. It is always the responsible leader, the mayor, and there are no exceptions and therefore the obligations of the people who are at these functions and who may have been to warn just such provisions and a difficult situation is 50 thousand kuna to remove one object. When you have a situation that hundreds of objects are simply an impossible mission. So that's where you'd have to take a consistent approach because that's what the public is looking for. So everyone also warns their parents about their child passing there they come looking for solutions, and we're bored. And we have a lot of local self-government, they don't even have a communal director, and then that game building inspector, what they want, they go back to the community and it takes time, and it doesn't solve the problem. But I say the public warns, warns exactly about the antenna pillars as they do because they don't want to, somewhere they want to, somewhere they want to, maybe with some step away from being under their noses. Because there's a lot of people who say look through the balcony and I literally see an antenna pillar. Therefore, it is not only that it has an impact on health but also on the aesthetics of space and a public insight would give much more space for those who propose to be more detailed about where it will put it, if they know that they are being watched by the public, and the public would then give their own judgment. And around the wind power plants, I think it's been a day and it's really a struggle to neutralize the whole situation that's happened and try to solve these problems, and at the end of the day, it's our ultimate consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32228	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. The next replica, distinguished counterpart Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32229	Comrade Panenić, here I was listening very carefully to what you were saying. There's one thing I can't agree with, you compared the situation in Germany specifically to the supervisory engineer you assumed should be able to manage the entire project, alleging that if materials were to be changed and so on. This is not good from one fact, if we are considering what the tasks of the supervisory engineer are now in the first place to see that the technical documentation is in accordance with laws and regulations, that the works are carried out according to the building permit under the same documentation, to keep an eye on the relationship between the designer and not the investor performer and vice versa, I think that a little greater interference of the supervisor might lead to violated copyright and similar situations. Also when you talked about the extension of the existing building permit, I can only warn that as counterpart Mrak Taritash spoke, the three plus three permit can really lead to the fact that other than changing spatial plans are changing and certain regulations relating to construction facilities. In particular, I can tell you in my town of Daruvar we made documentation for the construction of kindergarten, the permit was valid, but in the meantime the regulations changed, the conditions children's kindergartens must have. You couldn't have a group of 30 kids more than 20 or 25, and you definitely have access to projects first, so wait for what's going to happen in Europe, I don't think it's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32230	I thank my esteemed colleague Babic for his replica. The answer to the esteemed colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32231	Here's a thank you for two remarks, and I'd say two problems have come up. First of all, we're bureaucrats, so once we've established, let's not change anything, and that makes it difficult for us. Is that in three years or six years, and since the other problem that arises is often changing regulations, then we come into such a situation because of it. A frequent amendment to the law that leaves no room for adapting existing projects then leads us to the absurdity that simply something that we have invested money, designing, dating permits is no longer worth it. And we need to make sure that such changes in the law must be gradual and that perhaps because of this, there is a supervisory engineer who would have to bear much greater responsibility in our system, I should say and raised that he is not only an enforcer of the law but also an associate who will allow the project to be realised and that the possible shortcomings that are ultimately in each project can change and stand behind it. And of course if he has a certain responsibility then he will make sure that it does not go beyond the framework of the law or beyond the framework of the practice that is being implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32232	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the amendments to the Construction Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Before I say a few words about the law itself and the minister is, and during the morning, the main reason why the amendment to the Law on Construction has already been made has already been made, but with this fundamental requirement which has been imposed in a certain way and requires the amendment of the law has been included several more provisions and changes to the existing Construction Act, which, as the Ministers themselves see, have caused certain doubts among us, or are opening up the need for further reflections on the Construction Act. So perhaps in some nearer time to open up the debate and some other provisions of the Construction Act itself. So I also said that we will support this law first of all that we agree that it is necessary to speed up the adoption in Croatia of important strategic projects which are of general and national interest regardless of what concrete projects are now ahead of us and which are really very high values and importance in part and in transport infrastructure. Well, then we have no reason not to go with that law like this. But what should be said is that this law and even more laws and I will say something about strategic investment projects in a certain way is a recognition of the state or its capitulation in addressing a number of challenges that the state administration has to face when it has to realise important projects. I spoke on behalf of the club, that is, in an individual debate when this House passed the Strategic Investment Projects Act. That this law won't do anything. Why? Because no matter how much you speed up and order civil servants to solve something within eight days, to solve something within 15 days, to react quickly, they can't do something that cuts, which is contrary to the original laws. And this is now proof that, namely, we can't as much as declare a single project with a strategic investment project, we can't disrespect the Act of Execution. And through this procedure, an employee who works, a civil servant who works on that law as much as the law is a priority, or this project, that building is a priority he cannot act against the law and do something that his basic law by which he makes a decision to cross. And that's when I said that the Law on Strategic Investment Projects won't solve anything, but that every single law should be solved, was the Law on Maritime Good, was the Law on Construction, was the Law on Forests, was the Law on Catastrian Measurement, that was the geodetic measurement and the cadaster of Realty, any law on Water, so any other law, you must find in it barriers of administration that would allow for the flow and not the general Big Act on Strategic Investment Projects which we will acknowledge that any investment is important, valuable, but we will remain on it. And all of that, those procedures that follow cannot be speeded up, or perhaps they can be accelerated but cannot change the original law. In this way, we have now confirmed that as much as some investment is valuable to us, we have said until this law and this exemption that is not implemented under this law we will issue a building permit even though reason, the profession teaches us that there must be a single building particle, that there must be investor registration on it and that this is the only way we can get into the realisation of projects in the Republic of Croatia. So on the one hand, this law has not won anything and on the other hand, the need to finally realize that we will be constantly in this gap between the needs and the laws that are holding us back until we have finally solved a new state geodetic measure, a new housing cadastre and a new land book. When we realize that this is a prerequisite for all possible investments, then we can talk about the fast, realisation of the project and what we said that Croatia is highly raised on the Doing Business list, we will not solve before that. The assumption of investment in Croatia, no matter who the investor is, whether the state, whether local self-government, whether a private person is an arranged property-legal relationship on all properties, is the first assumption. Second, the adoption of complete spatial-planned documentation either at country level, or at county level, or at unit level of local self-government. And the third quick procedure for coming out of building permits. These are assumptions all the laws we talk about strategic investment projects, all the stories fall into the water, clash with three basic requirements to speed up something in the country. And until we figure it out, we're not gonna do anything until I say capitulation in front of the fact that we need to realise quickly, issue a administrative permit for some object, a very important object in which we've invested very much and on the other hand we can't. And for this reason, we will support the club to issue a construction permit before the creation of a unique building plot, especially when it comes to line facilities such as Pelješko Bridge, which is 18km long, an 18km long plot on which there are over thousands, I don't know how many thousands of parcels, on which people who have long died, who are unknown, who live in overseas countries, and for this reason it's difficult to implement it quickly through the extradition process and register the Republic of Croatia roads as investors at 18 thousand feet long and the width is about a few hundred meters long. Therefore, we understand that need and should do so. And we know right away, if this project is built and built for 3 years that we will not be able to solve in those 3 years, and property legal relations, and we are still giving ourselves the right to issue a useful permit for this facility and we have not yet solved the property legal relations. So we're aware of that. It cannot be solved today or it is the fault of this minister, it is already, 200 years ago we have been working on a 200-year-old measure and we haven't done much in Croatia. I have often stated that only 10% of the RH is in a new measure and that this is going too slowly and that we need to talk more about it. On other things that we have, which this law has already taken place in this fundamental change regarding the issue of a building permit and the exercise of a valid permit, then the ministry finds it appropriate to amend some other activities here, or other provisions of the existing law. We can argue whether it's opportune to say that you don't need an energy certificate apartment, apartment, part of a building, part of a building that's used for less than 4 months or it's 4 or it's 6 or it's some longer time period I'm not sure. In my view, it was a good provision that every object must have its own energy certificate no matter what time it is used. But when the law was passed, the original law on the branch when it was adopted should have left one temporary solution in which we would allow the owners of those apartments, the apartments whose buildings do not have quality energy efficiency are given through the measures of the Environmental Protection Fund to enable these people, the owners of these facilities to edit them, that later than they would have to pay compensation for this certificate, they really have some benefits. As regards the derogation from the main project as provided for in Article 19 of the original law, i.e. Article 4 of this Act, this derogation is included in the law which entered into force on 1 January 2014. In my view it was also questionable, too, because 3% of the total dimensions that are deviating from the main project are acceptable, up to a maximum of 30 cm in basic dimensions, as well as, here I think it is enough to say that it should be built in accordance with the building permit, in accordance with specific conditions and that the changes that occur can be agreed between investors, projector, supervisory authority and performer. But that they do not deviate from the basic requirements of the building and that they do not deviate from the locational conditions, and that if there is an increase in the overall cubicity of that space, and that the building is then invited by the investor to make a change in the dimensions of its building a nice choice to pay the unit of local self-government through the change of the solution to the municipal contribution. As for the completion of the illegally built building as prescribed in Article 44, I think it is a solution if it is already written to stand but we have it in the Simple Buildings Regulation. In Article 5, an identical solution is written, therefore, or unnecessary in the Regulation on simple buildings where it is mentioned about the completion of the building in a way to place the hair roof. I do not know that there is a spatial plan in Croatia that would prevent the setting of a hair roof. Thus, completing the building in a way that covers it with a hair roof is in line with all the spatial plans in Croatia. Therefore, such construction, which implies only setting up a hair roof, is not contrary to the spatial plan, and is already enabled in the Simple Buildings Regulation, which says that it is possible to complete an illegally built building or reconstruct it by placing a hair roof on a flat concrete board or on another panel. That's, so it's practical that we now have two norms in the law, and secondly we have a norm in this, in the Simple Building Regulation. I support Mr. Minister's admission of a building into a land book without administrative permission. That's a very good solution for me. The state cannot close its eyes that they are in the field of buildings and should be entered in the land book, clearly with a note in the freighter, in the C list that there is no applicable permit. Because wouldn't it be funny if we allowed 800,000 illegal objects illegally built, illegally built. We've made it possible to legalise them with the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, and now we're going to allow some building that was built in accordance with the applicable permit, with a building permit in which there may be some changes to the project we're not going to allow her entry into the land book, so as to prevent illegal construction. So I agree with this measure. It is good and everything on the ground needs to be recorded in both the most important real estate records, but it does not prevent the construction inspection from functioning on the ground and carrying out everything it has to do. As far as the execution project is concerned, I'm going to slowly bring this to an end, and I think this is a good solution. I remember very well when we discussed the Construction Act in 2014, i.e. at the end of 2013, when the obligation for certain construction works was lifted. It remained under the existing law only for the first group's buildings. Therefore, according to this obligation, it is mandatory only for first group buildings, and for all other buildings the development of an implementation project is optional. Thus, no one under the current law prevented the investor from doing an implementing project in order to better control the performer in a certain way. And in the case of a dispute then both in court or in any way, it is an implementing project that can define what is done, how much material is invested and which material is invested. I therefore believe that when the projector finds it necessary and thus protects the interests of the contractors, I support such a solution. And otherwise, I was in favour of not only building in the first group, but the second and third groups are often working on an implementing project to prevent possible disputes, and in a certain way to prescribe better construction itself. So here's what I'm going to conclude. We at the club support this law primarily because of these strategic projects that we have to implement, but from the debate you heard ministers there are still certain dubiosiss that we could correct and that the Law on Construction through some regular procedure first and second reading then experience certain changes that I think would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32234	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Željko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32235	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I don't know here's an amendment to the law proposal 94.2 this is proof of this law that the black hole of the Croatian State is a judiciary. So this is how we're going to make the first Keops pyramid instead of fixing these building permits, etc., this reminds me of some kind of eternal love foreplay without real fighting. And what's going on here? Why aren't we dealing with critical information? You have a Committee on Economy President-in-Office who issued proposals to cut the administration by obstacles to investment that 5% of the land in Croatia is arranged. What's the consequence? When did we hear in this Parliament of... the communist word confiscation, nationalization? Never. It's the key to all the problems. Thousands of people have been living in other people's apartments since '45. And someone killed my grandfather and I have to pay for this rent there, I have to pay for maintenance. Thousands of companies were seized, millions of hectares of agricultural land, etc., etc. Let's say building permits, slowness, takes 64 weeks on average, in Bulgaria only 32 weeks. You have an example. When it's all over then you get the geodetic mob, then you call the neighbors of some who are in Australia, some in Canada, and it takes another three years. It's unsustainable. We're in a piece of legal paralysis, and the key to that is this. These are all smoke curtains for me. We haven't established a functional state yet, we've had 20 years, we're still under tyranny, which is not to admit some young colleagues here, we're still under the tyranny of the socialist bureaucracy that generates and corruption at every level, a little bit of work, a lot of stealing, and these are the cores of our problems, and not these particulars, we have to solve it first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32236	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32237	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You gave a lot of ideas to your colleague Kuštević as minister, you opened a lot of topics from protected tenants to solving property relations to resolving relations in the geodetic profession. With you agreeing in one part of your presentation, and that is what I was saying myself that in this way we have recognised in a certain way that we do not have sufficiently well-resolved basic records in the Republic and that this creates a problem for us in any significant investment. And this is how I try to overcome these difficulties that the state has with this one skillful law, which will solve only one part of the problem, and a lot of big problems will be encountered by ordinary citizens who will not be affected by this law but only by state major projects, or by numerous units of local self-government when they go into the realisation of projects that are carried out and even the use of European funds. We've limited ourselves here that this applies to certain strategic national projects, and for other projects it's not worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32238	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The following came to the replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32239	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic. In your presentation, you talked all the time about investor rights that need to be simplified as much as possible to obtain all the necessary investment permits. However, the question arises as to what is the property owners because these proposed amendments to the law will be able to lose the country even faster than before and what is most important will not receive adequate compensation for it, and especially not within some reasonable time. So I would personally be interested in you telling us how many people have been authorized to the Republic of Croatia so far and how much you expect it to be granted in some future period. Here's a chance to hear yesterday in Brussels that this is not the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but with this EU territory, which means that the EU's interest will also be feminised in the interest of the Republic of Croatia in order to result in mass empowerment of Croatian citizens. Since President Glasovic here has now mentioned the tragedy of nationalisation that took place in Croatia 70 years ago, I would ask you to explain to me the difference between nationalisation of the expropriation except exclusively in the term used. So we had one measure that proved to be bad, meaning taking away people's property by force against their will, and now we use that same solution in 2017, so it's not clear to me whether we learned something from history or not, and especially in accordance with Article 48 that says the right of ownership is inalienable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32240	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You didn't listen to me or understand me. In fact, most of my exposure was dedicated to the owners. If someone in Croatia is helped by setting up property relations, then it helps owners and owners. The intensity is to take out the cadastres and land books to help the owners to get the state to solve what they may have been able to do on their own, and they haven't. Therefore, it was lower my exposure on behalf of the HDZ Club. I'm surprised you don't see the difference between nationalization and exorcism. I can't understand that you don't know what nationalization was 70 years ago and what the authority that happens is always and necessary. Nationalization was an unfair criminal job in which people were deprived of property just because the state... the enemies of society or he thought that in a certain way they had acquired and been taken away, there were many injustices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In every normal democratic system, it happens that someone is paid at the market price for a part of his property, in order to achieve the same owner's benefits and the wider community. And that's the fundamental difference between nationalisation and expropriation. And I'm saying that this owner can be helped to get a bigger fee, to make his procedure simpler, to cost him less, to book him first on his property on his plot, and then you can make an expropriation that will benefit him too, because he'll get more money because he's got a plot set up because it's worth it more to him. And that was, that's what I was talking about. And if you were to identify the nationalisation of the 40s or the '70s and to talk about expropriating me, it's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32242	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Tulio Demetlika, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bačić, here's really with your presentation and you've opened certain doubts to me, unfortunately I haven't been able to apply for a debate on this subject, but I'd like to say first of all that in the name of the club we will support these amendments and the additions of the law because we realize that the wish of the ministry and these governments to speed up, to be more effective in obtaining building permits, but here in the assembly we have three ministers, one current and two former ones, and each government that came to power, has promised that the first thing they will do would change the law precisely in order to speed up the whole process. We understand all together that we want to remove some of the problems that we have in practice, and you yourself mentioned us from local self-government which are problems and that we face most of it through the adoption and interpretation that you have told us today, I see that the same problems remain. You mentioned strategic projects, but at least you looked back at the state. The minister is that he mentioned locally, and I would like to know in which way those strategic or projects of general interest at the local level will be speeded up as well. We know that with one appeal for a local permit, the procedure is extended until the Supreme Court solves it and we wait three to four years for a solution. Not to mention the meaning of a conservative suit, which, technically or generally, these conditions are technically or as you called them, the conditions for obtaining certain building permits in the law are 15 days that it is time to give consent. We wait a few months, a year at a time, and we just don't know what to do as representatives of local self-government, so the law would want these things to be done when they're defined as being conducted in practice. The following parties are in the process. Also, your first neighbor brings a complaint to you, and then it's settled for months and years until it's resolved, and that's where it turns out from this replica that there's always a problem at the state level and not a local dysfunction of the state service. My time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32244	I thank my esteemed colleague. I would really ask you to stick to the time of all colleagues and fellow MPs regardless of my tolerance. The answer to my esteemed colleague Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Demetlika, you are right in a large part when you talk about the conduct of a public legal body when a building permit is issued, but it seems to me that under the current procedure for issuing building permits this procedure has been reduced in a certain way, it comes down to one administrative procedure, although it is possible for the parties who are neighbours and the right to appeal but I do not see how and how to avoid your neighbor's participation in the process of entering the building permit. The second thing is whether the public legal authorities or bodies issuing them were special consents to implement it at the speed needed but the law and provided for it, gave deadlines in which they are obliged to do so or if they do not give it will be deemed to have been designed in accordance with the legal requirements. Therefore, I think that the law allows for the relatively faster issue of building permits than before, it is certainly necessary to do more, and I said that it should still be through regular procedure to highlight certain remarks that you have said to further speed up the issue of building permits but there are multiple problems in obtaining the right to apply. When you have applied for a building permit, the bodies that issue building permits whether it is a ministry, whether the administrative body of the county and the big city already seem to be slowly going faster than it was before but the problem that you as an investor have to collect certain, do before the main project determine and do everything you need to do to be able to apply for a building permit. In my opinion, investors are still in a certain way distracted by the faster implementation of their projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32246	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Bacic, for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Klaric reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32247	Dear counterpart Bačić, like you, and most of the MPs here, we support the intention and will and the minister to speed up these legal solutions in the process of adopting permits, but we can say that "We have no use for the players" until certain procedures that are not directly related to this law are speeded up. A concrete example down in Croatia Primorje, the State Geodetic Administration in Rijeka, even the facilities production plants that are finished and waiting for a useful permit must for weeks without saying for months to wait for the elaborate and justification of it is purely for reasons we do not have enough people booked with work, do not give us employment of people which is unimaginable at this time. Right at the moment when they're trying to find legal solutions to speed up certain procedures. And you and I, in the last term, talked about the parliament's previous meeting on the subject, I had even given an amendment to the Strategic Investments Act and the Business Infrastructure Act. When we talk about the extradition procedure, but not just the extradition procedures, but again something that slows the whole country down. I can't imagine that a judicial procedure for the decomposition of a co-ownership community is a prerequisite for solving property legal relations in an industrial zone that lasts more than 10 years and we have the fact that it does. So, what we've been through these 26 years, excluding that time of war, we have had enough experience and enough knowledge, especially for us who have been operating on the ground doing numerous projects and running numerous buildings so that we know where the problems are, that we know what the problems are and that we know how to solve them. But the fact that we still have the Austro-Hungarian Catastre, the fact that we're still not solved property legal relations, which is what we do not last for a year, two, three, and tens of years, is something that the best will of the minister and all of us to pass and the best law that will speed up everything won't get the result we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32248	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Klaric, you've actually confirmed what I said. So in order for an investor in your business zone in Kukuljanovo to be able to apply for a building permit, he must, as a previous question, depose that co-ownership community that lasts him 10 years. And now someone says the construction permit process for the construction of the project on Kukuljanov takes 10 years to wait 10 years for a construction permit. The building permit is only waiting for the moment when that investor solves and breaks down that co-ownership community, when he makes the main project, when he gets all the previous consents and then, from that moment on, we can start counting the days he needs to get out of the building permit and not what you're talking about, rightly speaking to him, the man is still not able to get a license because he is not solved with these property legal relations that are holding him back. And by the way, you know very well that, I don't know what kind of example is in your county but I know about my county so I wouldn't attack even the officers who issue those permits. In fact, they are now really the basis of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings where the enormous amount of illegally built buildings are working on these jobs. On the other hand, there are restrictions that the county can spend up to 20% of its current income on its employees and then prevents additional employment, etc., etc. So it happens sometimes that deadlines that should be respected when building permits are issued, but I'm saying everything together, I think the process of obtaining building permits is compared to the situation that used to be faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32250	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from prominent counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32251	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, dear colleague Bačić, you said that special attention should be paid to strategic projects and how to remove these barriers, i.e. to amend fundamental laws as soon as possible to implement these projects. I would like to appeal and ask that special attention be paid to those projects that will be financed, i.e. those that are running for EU funding from funds, not only the large ones, as well as the construction of regional waste disposal centres, the recovery of landfills, but also the construction of sewage systems, the construction of kindergartens, health homes, firehouses. In fact, these projects should also be addressed both more easily and preferably because I believe that this is also in the interest of the Republic of Croatia as quickly as possible and as much as possible to withdraw European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32252	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Branko Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32253	I thank Mr. Vice President, you're right, I've already said that by this law we practically encourage, we allow the realisation of major strategic state projects. And basically, in an unequal relationship on the one hand, we put a state and on the other hand a unit of local self-government and then I can go a step further, and where we are, or where citizens who do not have this kind of exclusivity are then. So in order for me to implement my own project, I have to solve the property legal situation, I have to form a building plot, I have to put it in a cadastre, I have to put it in a land book, and this country, here we are now allowing the state not to, although not for all the projects, for those who are determined to be of national interest. So that's what I said, and I called on Mr. Minister to think for a while about this initiative that projects that can be absorbed from European funds and whose investors, i.e. local self-government units, were either sewage networks or I don't know which other projects to try to enable such projects to be realised and, in a certain way, encourage and build, the construction sector but also solve a number of important things at the unit level of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32254	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32255	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, here I have listened carefully to your debate and I am glad that in many details we agree. And when I hear more, now I'm going to repeat what you said and look back at your speech and I can say that it's also a sad fact that what you said today would have been current 5, 10, 15, 20 years ago. If we could imagine the situation of having perfect conditions, having a quick clerk, having good neighbors, solving property legal relations, the problem that you said about the quick procedure of obtaining a permit essentially remains the same. When you look at the time from the moment the investor comes to the designer until the moment he gets a building permit. The e-authorization has made that issue process faster, but here I am using the opportunity to think of some way to make as many units of local self-government as possible have detailed arrangements because detailed arrangements are the cornerstone of the quick entry of the permit, and most of the special conditions of construction can't be speeded up by the whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32256	I thank my esteemed colleague Babic for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Babic. You said exactly what we were saying when the Construction Act was passed, then I was a respected colleague Mrak Taritash told the Minister at the time that the Construction Act was conceived would get the impression that the permits would be issued faster, because the administrative body of the county would have completed the documentation, and which was eligible for entry into force was collected by the administrative body of the county or large city. So really according to this law, now that you get the opportunity to submit a building permit, it makes it possible to issue a building permit faster. Before you know it, you do it, that's what you get to know. You'd be building a project, and then on your behalf, the body would be collecting consent to your project to issue a building permit. And in this way, while this body that was issuing the permit collected data, it would delay the process of issuing a building permit. This is how the law is conceived, which may be good, but it relieves the administrative body to seek what it has previously sought and speeds up that procedure. So this law that is in force allows the construction permit to be issued faster, but as you said, I agree with you, is it faster than the investor before, it is questionable and here I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32258	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Professor Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32259	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bacic. You've had a lot of experience, you've been Minister of Construction. I'm interested in three things. Here's a colleague of Demetlik's earlier talking about complaints. If there's a particle on some part where it's built, if it's rated suitable, similar to building, why is the possibility of a complaint even granted to anyone on the side? I think that's pure logic. So, you don't have to rush into an emergency procedure, wait two, three weeks to get rid of it. In addition, there is a law on spatial planning after that so that some things can be aligned. So someone can really bulldoze you as hypothetically as they want. If you said there can be built so there's no right at all, an automatic appeal is rejected. Second, strong consent, DVD, police, plumbing, etc., if it is estimated in this area that access is generally good, that it has conditions of water, waist... etc. So wait, it's for every trauma. In this country, the hardest problem is getting permission to build, it's easier to do, it's easier to get credit for anything, finding masters than to do it. Why not do so if, in a particular section, it is part of particles where automation can be built in one place, it is resolved that it can be built immediately. And another perhaps most important question, what about buildings that haven't finished? For seven years, I've been looking out of my window at an ugly building where the owner, the performer, nothing's happening to it, but the trees are growing, please deal with it once more. Give three years if no one can solve it, auction and make sure that whatever is sold is settled through the court after who received the dispute. Well, we can't watch it anymore, you know. This country is devastated and particularly large cities due to the construction mafia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32260	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kologa Lovrinović, however detailed a single document of spatial arrangement, signed all possible basic conditions formed by a local permit or location conditions, still remains very many questions to be defined before the building permit is issued. The issue of electricity supply, availability of quality and energy, water supply, etc., etc. So there are a number of other questions that these institutions must give you before you get a building permit because when you get a building permit it is understood that you can exploit your facility to the end, not that when you start using it to determine that you lack quality electricity, that you lack any other reason. Therefore, there must be these special conditions that you must get only they must be made available faster. It's a problem that you shouldn't wait for it, but it takes eight days to get it all, which isn't prescribed by a single document of spatial order. I think we're in a state where we should respect private property because building on my facility can in a certain way... the quality of your plot, your facility. So it's perfectly normal to ask the neighbors when I'm building. Because that project, in any way, may exist between me and the neighbors, some kind of deal that I failed when I asked for permission because it was nowhere to be exposed and then only through that process can the neighbor say, wait, we didn't agree, you have to do it and because we've prescribed it. Therefore, it must be possible for a neighbor in a democratic state to have something to say when someone is building next to his plot, next to his house, etc. So I wouldn't remove that complaint. I think that would be absolutely contrary to the standards we've reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32262	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32263	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'd like to talk a little bit more about changing this law about the issue of expropriation. So if the interest of the Republic of Croatia is expressed for some land, then the owner under this law has the right to exercise his right and, in fact, will go even faster, even simpler, and will cover a larger circle of persons. This is where MP Bačić said that problems should be solved when land owners are abroad for many years, for some decades, when they are not available or even unknown to their residences. However, the fact is that there are people who are therefore opposed to exorcism. I would like to talk today about their rights because not all people are satisfied with this procedure. We also heard in the debate that they should be satisfied with nationalization, that there is some sort of compensation here. But the question is, according to these amendments to the law, when that fee is obtained and actually whether the one that has been authorized from his property will ever succeed. According to this proposal, the amendments to the law show that the investor has the right to obtain a building permit and a useful permit without a period of time. So he can object, oppose as much as he wants. It's possible to argue with the local community, for example. For example. It's about investing a waste dump or a thermal power plant or maybe a NATO base. However, regardless of all this, the investor will rule out the owners and start the construction regardless of their opinion or whether an extradition contract has been signed at all. After complaints have passed and objections have been resolved, these property disputes under the new bill are therefore scheduled for a period of 4 years. So the payment period of 4 years, which is in direct collegiate with the Law on the granting and fixing of the fee of Article 37(2), which says that the payment period must be 15 days from the power of the solution, the maximum time limit. So this law needs to be directly linked to the Law on Spatial Regulation that will come immediately after the debate on these amendments to the law. It would be fair, therefore, to set a reasonable period for the use of licences, and that all property law relations on a land must be resolved within that time limit, and that this time limit for payment of a fee should therefore be maintained within 15 days. So I repeat again. It's about violence, first of all. There's no difference between nationalization and exorcism. It's against the wishes of landowners. And then after that expropriation is formalized once, and we see that there is no deadline under which an expropriation contract must be signed, only then can it pass the years, maybe it can take another decade then another four years should wait for the payment of the fee. We believe in the Living Wall that this bill is not fair to landowners, that it favours investors who do not necessarily have to be Croatian investors, but can therefore be an investor from the European Union and that, in view of all this, this law should be done to ensure that land owners are better protected. If there is no change, we will not support the amendments to this law that are now in front of us in the Living Wall of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32264	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32265	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, you really don't really know the difference between nationalization and extradition. No wonder you didn't work in local administrations and you don't understand how the local administration system works. I'm not going to nationalization. This is where Branko was talking to his colleague Bacic, and I don't want to go back to it. But you in one segment are looking for absolute freedom of the particle owner and that's fine. But on the other hand, they would pressure the judiciary because the act of expropriation has nothing to do with this law, nothing to do with construction, nothing to do with the particle of the earth. That act of exorcism is with the judicial authorities, and thank God we fought for the independence of the judiciary. So for this reason, this process can take a year, two, three, four, we don't know in a judicial sense. But from the moment the decision is made in the law it is crystal clear that within 15 days it must be compensated from one side, and on the other hand I will tell you that whoever powers is obliged to deposit funds on that day, I will repeat it is obliged to deposit funds on the day when the extradition procedure took place. Therefore, it is on the owner of the country's particle whether, under market conditions, assessors, the Tax Administration when assessing the value of its land can or will not. A lot of cases in my area are anywhere the landowners have been looking for 16 meters of barack space three three-bedroom apartments to build a highway or do you think that's right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32266	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blazen Boban, for the replica. Answer, esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32267	Thank you very much. Agent Boban, you therefore believe that only people who have graduated from the Faculty of Civil Engineering are allowed to talk about the Construction Act. It's like I'm telling you now that you can't discuss nationalization, neither you nor your colleague Bacic because you haven't finished studying history like me. Here I am, at least for this half-expert, and I don't know that you're for this other one. You say, so you're making an argument that it's irrefutable that it's going to have to be paid in 15 days. Here I am reading to you the amendments to the Law on the Spatial Regulation that you are, which you will propose immediately after this law. Article 172(3) extends the time limit for land compensation which the investor, by virtue of a contract with the owner, rules out for construction from 2 to 4 years. Well, now I don't know, one law says one thing, another law says the other. We had the same thing a few days ago, the Law on the Unemployed, which dealt with the issue of cooperatives and was in direct collegiation with the Cooperatives Act, but it was adopted. So in Croatia, we make laws that are contrary to each other. Even as far as I've been able to figure out, we have more laws that are contrary to each other, and then we're talking about some legal stuff, some kind of improvement. I don't know, this basically opens up space or that I get something wrong or that it's actually going to further complicate some property-legal relations that will inevitably be guided by these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32268	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for his reply to the replica. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32269	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, we support you... You said it was about agreeing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I personally agree with that exposure of yours. I don't see any reason why the state has to spend four years paying someone off some certain amount of space. What's going on here? It's just that it's not working. I'd say so. If the problem is and what the colleague said is that there is a problem that people are asking too much, but we do have our own justice that needs to be dealt with by an emergency procedure, see if it's right and if it isn't. However, I live in a city where many old properties have been taken away since World War II, which now seems to have no idea who the owners are. But we have in Ilica down here a couple of houses that I see devastated, which are dangerous to live around. I'm asking questions about what the state needs to do with it. So probably property-legal relations aren't solved, the state needs to do it urgently to get rid of it, see if the owners exist, don't exist. If there's no state to bid to sell these properties on some real basis and solve that part of the problem. And if one shows up, then that money comes back normally, refunds into that part of the world. But with us, I get the impression, it's important to talk about working, and we're actually standing in place. Here I am, walking through the city every day towards the Black Man, and I see one of the three houses that have been torn down recently. Interestingly, no one in this town has yet to ask a question in the right positions if there is no owner to choose to end that part of the problem, let them agree that people and don't give God to someone else's child or a man. But there's nothing going on here that I've noticed for at least the past few years when I'm looking at it. Therefore, I support that this should be dealt with urgently and what needs to be settled within 15 to 2, 3 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32270	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivica Misic. Answer, esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32271	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Misic, in that part, we have already agreed with the representative Bačić and I. So, if it's about someone not taking care of their property without even being present in the Republic of Croatia that they don't even know their place of residence, and if this whole thing takes decades and it's absolutely certain that they need to take steps to address these issues that you mentioned, including security. What I was talking about and what I would like to point out now is that the other side needs to be looked at. So this is where HDZ deputies passed the law and they gave the opinion that the law must be voted on and that it must be supported and they are now representing that opinion. But the question arises, and what would these MPs do if it were their skin, if someone were to rule them out, that their ornaments didn't know the courtyards, the orchards if someone were to take it away and then probably say ah, look, this law isn't good. So they, I'm just trying to open my eyes that there are people who are alive, who are real and who are opposed to expropriation and who can't take any legal steps to prevent it. And what's even more important, I can't even get a fee, or I can't get a fee when all the possible disputes, lawsuits, complaints, etc. end. And then here's to this law on spatial order, it takes four years to get a fee. During that time, it is likely that one part of these privileged ones will die especially when it comes to older ones. And in fact, the law wasn't balanced enough, so it wasn't enough looking from all the angles that the law should be implemented. And of course it always goes to the harm of the weaker, so specifically citizens in favour of large capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32272	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I understand your position because I know the political commitment of the Living Wall to always fight to protect the owner in this case, and you are against extradition. But I'm going to ask you another question. In what way will one city or local self-government protect the common general interest not of the individual but of the common interest? If private land and local self-government has brought a spatial plan, a urban plan and defined that a kindergarten is being built on that plot, a retirement home or something that needs citizens of this city or this unit of local self-government, the owner does not want to sell it, you are forced to go to an exorcism, not nationalisation to be granted, and that means that you will justly damage it. And what I see is this is the only possible legal way to get to the realization and to protect myself I will say no to an individual interest as you protect it through your discussion rather than the general interest or the interest of a state or a community. So local self-government has to realise projects, and that's the only way that it can be solved in this way, and therefore expropriation is the only solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32274	I thank my esteemed colleague Demetliki for his replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32275	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Demetlika. Of course, you can always draw such an example to justify the needs of exorcism. Here's what MP Bačić said, he's been in America for decades, and it's logical to rule him out if it's in the national interest. It is logical to rule out someone by preventing the construction of kindergartens, which can result in a fair fee. However, the question arises where is the border? Is there any limit to that, then? So can we actually rule each and every one of them? So we'll always find some reason to take someone's land away from someone's property. Then where's the border? Is then individual, then, does this point Constitution right to property is inalienable, whether it actually works or not? We're going to get to a situation where we're going to get to the wall, that I don't know about citizens' protests, that there's going to be a legal precedent, and then we're just going to understand what I've been saying all along, and that's that we need to look at both sides. We're just saying now we need to invest as if we're going to build kindergartens all the time or we're going to build schools all the time, and tomorrow what I mentioned is going to happen is that waste dumps are going to be built and thermal power plants are going to be working, so there's going to be something that might not be such an acceptable investment, but no one can do anything about it. So it will simply be said that such an interest, that the investor wants to do so and the consequences will be far greater than perhaps the authority of one owner or several of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32276	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for his reply. The next call came from prominent counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32277	Thank you, Vice President. My friend Bunjac, about my replica, is similar to my colleagues Tulia. You're very opposed to extradition, you think it's a favor to the investor, and I would now ask you how you would solve a case like we did, as we did, as we often have all of us who are in charge of cities or municipalities. For the construction of a sewer system that looks forward to about 40,000 citizens, what should be built by the guests of our region by a wastewater treatment device. For that, we need about 15 thousand square meters. The owners of 14 thousand and 800 squares, so roughly they're willing to buy at the assessment of the court's expert that land unlike the owners of some 200 squares that it's not willing to sell. How would that be resolved if it wasn't for the Act of Exclusion? For your example, is there a lot of talk about it you think it's an unfair fee, we've paid 480 kuna per metre square plus an improvement, which means every olive, every vine plus paid. For the purchase of land for the cemetery of 520 kuna, it is a land on which nothing else can be built but precisely that, a purification device, or this when I speak the cemetery. So this is the only way that's possible because you would really block all our projects from uniting local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32278	I thank my esteemed colleague, Juričev-Martinchev, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32279	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs. So there's some kind of legal relationship, there's some kind of justice, there's a possibility that these relations can be resolved to the satisfaction of both sides. Here, in my opinion, simply one side is placed in an unfavourable position because the automatic display of interest is given a building and useful permit and is entered in the cadastre. Do you always and in any case need such lightning in getting some permission? Does this deadline within which things can be arranged that are therefore prescribed by law for a year, two, does it necessarily affect any investment? I'm not quite sure. So as in many other cases, the scale always weighs on one side, and the scale weighs on the side of the stronger one. And there's a lot of examples in Croatia, I don't know, starting with the relationship between banks and clients, so here's to the relationship between investors and landowners. In my opinion, I believe this case of yours is difficult, but it should be respected by the other side. So regardless of what you may think, this man who opposes it is a contentious person or you think he needlessly complicates the whole thing and should respect his opinion as well. Indeed, here I am, ultimately concerned with the question of how many people will be subject to this Construction Act, and let's say for the next five or ten years whether it's the 500 troubled people you've listed now or perhaps 500 thousand citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32280	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for his reply. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32281	Thank you very much. Vice President, Your Honor! Here after the debate on a very important topic I must say that at the beginning of today I am to you and replicated to what I will discuss in an individual debate and address because the fact is that all legal and physical persons must be according to the Constitution equally. However, amendments to the law, i.e. By removing the building permit for antenna pillars, i.e. For setting up base stations, base stations started to be placed on wild stations without any consent, without any meaning, neighbors could not react, literally without any criteria. Now we have one chaos in a space where we have nothing like mushrooms after the rain of the base station uncontrollably, I have said a few times that I am not because of these things for the European Union that have citizens of the European Union from these teleoperators who are now using our area for this activity and it is certainly much more profitable than in their home countries, and this is not how they behave in their home countries, and this is all because of the service policy that has given the right to foreign teleoperators to behave in this way and to threaten our environment first, our space and for free use and health, but it is one other rule that the health minister should change. Based on this, you would have to, Mr. Minister, or I suggest you correct this injustice because every day people protest simply in front of their windows a pillar one morning, there's a base station set up without a teleoper investing in any infrastructure, a building permit today's designers can earn, that our construction companies can do their job, that some kind of consent or communal fees pay what ordinary citizens have to. This is a direct guess, this is why Croatia is at the top. There are two ministers here, i.e. She was the Minister of Construction. I don't understand why the building permit was removed. It's in 2009. That's a clean guess for foreign teleopers, that's why I'm talking because there's a minister here, but apparently he didn't hear me now. Legislative solutions mean simple, very simple few articles are changed and would not be reflected as teleoperators say on growth, negative for growth of the economy, GDP decline, mobile technologies, on the Internet in EU countries because they simply have that in their countries where they come from and from us draw money from local self-governments do not charge kunas for base stations, you can go out here and you will look at them, they do not pay anyone, they do not need any consent, while a man somewhere in the country, for example, in the Cetina region or irrelevantly in the Imot region, Vrgoračka for a farm should build to keep the cattle can't be built because of various regulations, examples if he wants a cheese then cheese from milk when it is made cheese affects the plum... This is true for you and let's say the dump on Lečevica waste does not affect the plum of the Adriatic and the milk of the Suritka influences, man couldn't make the milkmaker. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He held a herd of goats, had to sell them, i.e. I'm sorry, he couldn't make cheese milk. These are your true events. So, we have a direct advantage to foreign teleoperators who are the political elites of all authorities, I don't want to be on the team anymore, so I'm going to work for you this way, so I'm going to tell you here and before, but what happened was also a proposal to amend the Regulation on simple and other buildings and works where you would essentially change this through two articles and where the base stations would. The antenna pillars were the same according to the law as all other buildings, where our citizens would have the right and local self-government to give consent, plan it or not to plan it if it did not suit you naturally, and our domestic designers would have earned it because they would have to do it as well for other objects. We should also create infrastructure but this is another issue because this is only part of your ministry but we also have the Ministry of Transport that should change the same rule. amending the law, we have the Ministry of Health which should also be based on all the research but these are other regulations. This is, I'm going to give you, I'm going to end up now and read this part in essence which are the changes in the article. Therefore, it would change the meaning of the amendments to the Regulation in order to allow citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be able to influence the position of the pillars of antennae receptions, it is required that the Regulation or... And the papers mean that and that People's Newspaper, that I'm not reading right now, we have two articles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You two articles if you change your mind, check it out. Simply, these base stations could no longer be pruning like mushrooms after the rain, mostly in the night hours, so we have protests from my Sinj, Split, Solin, St. Sunday where the mayors... their particles because they give 2,000 euros a month. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What affects my child's health or yours is less important, I personally wouldn't want to put it on my particles if your house is near my particle and your children, and I wouldn't want it without my consent to be placed under your children's windows. I'll give you this, but before I finish, I'd just like to say a little bit. Nationalisation is mentioned, which is a major problem and has caused chaos in Croatian society. Many families are damaged and extorted. I'd like a little bit on nationalization. The fact is that nationalization is a very big problem, but the fact is that a lot of what was social and state today has become someone's without giving the kuna without having two Junes in his pocket. Well, now you should think about whether or not he got some kind of building permit besides firing people. Because there's gonna be a factory from 68th. So you don't really have to watch nationalization always bad. Yeah, 45th bad, but the ones they robbed, the one that took my son's gun money... to defend ourselves now creating that empire and... [[You don't understand.]] The empty groups have. [[You don't understand.]] Today, those people he fired have run out of anything, and now they might need a building permit to build houses. Whether they get it or not if they've upgraded it a little bit is the question. So thousands of injustices. So nationalization is, say, in the INA, it's known to be illegally acquired. I mean, what would be the problem of saying illegal, it's stolen, they gave the White Nights unfairly, I think the airport think they rented, so I don't think we should always look negative. It just takes one law on the origin of the property so we can balance it out. Whoever didn't have a kuna didn't get a lotto, and he didn't even dig like in my Sinj have a Pol Sinj, he just got rid of it, tax card and it's in two minutes. And what I'd say is more about bookkeeping that's disastrous, say, land books in us in these parts of the Dalmatian Zagora, you're lucky if you're 100 you have, 38's 100's. Now imagine one 6 grand is co-owner of that particle. If we hadn't had Austro-Hungarian in all of our past and in this system and today, and I won't even talk about the justice system about the speed and the thoroughness of their actions. Like what? In Sinj we have a car transport that has become the owner of who knows the guilt of the city's administration of course the city that has been affected. The building was from... Sinjska, the building was... [[You don't understand.]] Croatian railways also today became the owner of the Makarska traffic so that the poor woman who created the Auto Transport when the apartment was assigned or the husband died yesterday would be thrown out onto the street, as it became the owner of who would know. [[You don't understand.]] Simple. The judiciary functions nicely, quickly and efficiently and thoroughly. I could say in Sinj Evo that in such particles, countries, buildings, objects that should be, you shouldn't be ashamed of this part of the Law on the Origin of Assets and Nationalisation, and Ministers for telling you what's most important and this injustice because you're also pro-Europeanly inclined to emphasize it, so let our citizens have the same conditions and teleopers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32282	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to rephrase to you this time, but I'm going to give you full support in this section that you've sent to the Ministry to amend the Regulation on simple and other buildings and works in a way that, in order to build antenna pillars and electronic communications equipment including electronic communications equipment, you need to get the consent of local self-government units. Namely, as Mr. Bačić also said that it is necessary to ask the neighbor for the urbanized plot, for defined building provisions, for the obtained location permit, then it is time for such buildings that pose a potential danger to the first neighbours, because we are today witnessing that such antennae columns with that electronic communication equipment are placed near school and medical institutions, are placed in densely populated places or areas without anyone asking. Therefore, I support your idea, and I believe that the ministry should just consider changing the Regulation precisely for such buildings and that if nothing else asks the local self-government under which conditions such buildings can be built. And the local community normally has to be involved in the whole process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32284	I thank my esteemed colleague Tulio Demetlika for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32285	Thank you very much. Well, this is where you agreed, but I'll say it's just a guess. That is why we are at the top as the most corrupt country in the European Union, and everyone is calling for the European Union. Here it is directly favored when it says that we are all equal before the Constitution, in front of the courts, here it is directly favored by foreign teleoperators that they can place their antenna pillars or base stations naturally wherever they think of it. At the end of your window, I have a particle at your window you can't do anything, this is the part only that needs to be changed as the Minister of Construction, there's more traffic, there's more health care, the Ministry of Health that should also have its regulations and the government of your regulation and one law that I'm going to propose to amend the law. Of course, I, with the signatures of all MPs, is a less important political option. This is a direct corruption of teleoperators who create their own empires, and not all empires and the biggest profit per capita have in Croatia, while in their countries nothing of this is what we are looking for, in their countries they have these rules and their Internet is not threatened, their GDP has not fallen, but rather we would have the right to charge for it. Because what's basic? Neighbouring and planning, planning, plan. He raises the antenna from 40 meters where he thinks of it, on the shore. He picks up on the beach, doesn't even have to ask himself, so look where they're getting up, by hospitals, kindergartens, schools. They don't ask or have to ask anyone, but it was made possible by the legislator. That's why I said there was a minister here, she was the Minister of the Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions she warned about, protested, but no one should, obviously not. The teleoperators are supposed to be the bosses, these foreign tycoon who ride in Haiti, and... we act ten years old while robbing our people and calling for European fluids, European liquids to kill our kids, and that's why they don't even pay for it because that radiation has been proven to be dangerous. And I can put your child and my child under the window, and that's why we have to agree, and you ministers need to change this rulebook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32286	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32287	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President. So the Construction Act is certainly one of the most important laws that regulates certainly the construction system in the Republic of Croatia from design, construction, use, to maintenance of the buildings themselves, and certainly regulates other procedures that aim to protect and further edit space. I think that every minister in the past 27 years, and every government in its part of jurisdiction, has had a vision of how to make this system a better way to achieve that vision of the individual but also of the government as a whole, and that they've all come into play with all these laws that we're going to discuss today and this law and these two that are going after because the fact is that the simplicity of the procedure, that the complexity of the problem i.e. all the things we inherited make us want to arrange this space better, better quality, simpler to achieve each of us's particular interests that we can have as an individual, but also as a community. We will speak today or have heard a lot of stories today about how to enable what the state wants, and these are important strategic infrastructure projects can come into construction, build and put themselves into function. How to enable an individual to achieve his personal project perhaps living care of himself, his family to be simple without much complications, that this documentation does not reach some height of 30, 50 centimeters, that it is 5 or 10 centimeters if it is something more complex. He himself looks at such an opportunity to make us discuss the possibilities such a law can offer. Because a legitimate question arises whether this law, which today is in the debate, is the maximum possibility of the flow of some legal provisions that allow it. We'll agree that it's not exactly maximum, so there's a space that's been said today that we're going to have to have one more amendment to this Construction Act to make it happen, so let's call it one Ministry of Reform in the part of the construction of not only important infrastructure facilities but all buildings and all spaces. We have also heard some remarks that can be justified, but with which to communicate, i.e. Take a debate. We heard from one club today that the problem this law provides is about the deviation of something that opens Pandora's box. If that's the way we're going to think, then Pandora's box is open in every law that's ambiguous or that offers a possible deviation through certain articles. And the question really arises whether then we have made a perfect law that will immediately solve any possibility that may occur in building a certain building or we will look at other laws, and we see that because of certain failures or deviations that occur through different interpretations of articles simply people end up always where many of these procedures end, which is in the judiciary. So I also think personally that there is no article that will define everything exactly and when we write it, we adopt that it has solved all the problems of Croatia in terms of construction. Where do I see this biggest problem, some of them talking about it today? In the system we inherited. This system, which was up to the 1990s, was also normally arranged, even sometimes seemed to be even better than we have today. But in reality, we had the fact that buildings were being built, buildings in such a way that there would be some party leader in some place or on an island, he would come, he would say there would be a school, whose land is not important, we won't even solve it. In this area and this area in the best bay, we will create hotels or hotel settlements. Whose area it is, it doesn't matter if it's private at the time whether it's a general purpose or universal, make hotels, and we'll figure it out. How did these agreements work out with people back then? And something was promising, we're gonna hire you someone I don't know from the family, we're gonna pay for something in fish, something like this, and we inherited it. We can't run from it. We also heard what we inherited from the catastrophe itself and everything else. 27 years is it enough for us to handle this? Well, maybe it was enough to establish a much better procedure than we have now, but the fact that it wasn't easy to solve all these disputes or property dealings just because we inherited it then I say in the way it's being built. And it happened a lot in 27 years, but of course that's not the end. And what's the problem? This is what everyone today clearly recognized when the provisions of this law or some of which we are going to discuss today are translated into a judicial system and we come up with absurd judgments written on behalf of the Republic, which at this time leave either for the benefit of individuals or are completely absurd that you cannot believe that such a thing can happen. So you today have the opportunity to say for objects that are clearly said in two degrees that you have to collapse that you continue to avoid collapse or ten years these objects will not collapse or parts of the objects, that all the possibilities of the judiciary are used not to do so, although it is clear from the first day that it must happen, is of course we all say the mess is in space. Who's to blame? The Ministry didn't write any good laws. Yeah, the good laws clearly recognized that the building was bad, that it needed or wasn't legally solved but none of it did. So in the judiciary, we recognize a part of the problem that needs to be solved, especially through this part when we're talking about expropriation, and I believe that these laws will come very soon for discussion. As far as strategic infrastructure projects are concerned, it was like something else and it's like the basis for this adoption of a law by emergency procedure. We agree that we have infrastructure projects that need to be built, built or completed, and cannot be put into operation without the provisions of this law. Here's an example of our county dump called Mariscino. It was a project that lasted about 10, 12 years and was due to address the problem of waste management in the Primorje-Gorski County. He's got a valid license. I'm thinking until 8.3. temporarily under the previous law for 90 days. It's not a meaningless facility, 100 thousand tons of waste should be taken there annually, and of course it's of interest to put that object into operation. 12 years, 8 private particles or private owners just can't be solved. They have 45 thousand square meters that's 10% of the total surface area. The mayor offers what the court expert 80 kuna tells him, they're looking for what they think they need to get it is 200 kuna and there's everything stopping, the whole project. So we come to principles, to some kind of relationship, and more importantly to an individual or community. And about that we heard some opinions today, here we have one opinion here and here they say the individual is above the community no authority, it's not necessary it's nationalization. We have some other facilities to build. Tomorrow, Pelješki bridge, access roads, we need to open up some facilities that are now facilities such as airport. As for the extension of the building permits, I fully agree. We really do have a license that happens in normal procedures, we have problems at the level of local self-government that we don't always have enough resources to start building all the objects we want, and the general ones are of social interest. That's what the port administrations and local self-government, municipalities and cities and counties have, and I don't think there's an observation that we're going to change so often spatial plans, that even six years three plus three things that might re-route space, and then everything else is questionable. I think when we talk about spatial planning that spatial plans still need to be a little longer, 10, 15 years to determine the purpose of a certain space. As far as the certification system is concerned, there's been a lot of words about him already, but I'll say, there's really little provision for a residential building that's been used for less than four months a year, a little too wide for me. And that would be a broad discussion because indeed what it is is renting in tourism, whether it is renting, renting or lying. I don't think it's any of that, that first of all... Now, as we're going to interpret it, it's clear that the rules have already been dealt with by this law now. The fact is that we in these buildings, that people who rent live in these buildings, and that's why I find this formulation a little unusual, but I think there's space from other changes to think about as much quality as possible. As far as expropriation is concerned, I think that basic question is individual or community quite unspeakable. I mean, the community is above the individual. She has to realize her interests, and if we need a road that has to go through something, one can't stand in the way of it. And the Law of Exaltation is fairer, better than what we have waiting for. It's something we have to do because without it, we wouldn't have any infrastructure facilities today. And if you would be a community i.e. all of us met with the will of the individual and his principles, you would see especially the Commissioners know this well in what situations they come into just trying to do what is the simplest expropriation, and that is a settlement that is difficult to reach given that everyone has their own interests. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32288	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32289	Dear counterpart Boris, you mentioned a whole series of problems, among other things, something this law unfortunately cannot solve. Knowing the minister, by talking to him we support 100%, 1000% of his good intentions to speed up all these procedures. But when we look at, and we have a whole series of examples, I can personally give you one of the verdicts that was built for the existing road in Yugoslavia, and it wasn't written because the neighbor was resented by the catering facility, and the judge ruled that the verdict had become a power of law that we had to put a barricade on that road and practically prohibit traffic along that road. So something we inherited and something we have is difficult to change only by this law, so it requires a whole comprehensive job. But the reason I volunteered for the replica was because you mentioned strategic investments. We are witnessing that our mountain Kotar gives our Slavonia, Lika, our Croatian coast and your islands leave young and leave. And now the question is, what is a strategic investment, what are we building for, who we build for if our people are missing? I guess strategic investment is a job, an economy, I guess strategic investment is the infrastructure that will allow it to develop. If the judiciary is holding us back, if the catastre is holding us back, if we have a whole series of decision-making structures that have been holding back for years, and life is going on right now because tomorrow someone's already leaving the way of Ireland, Germany or I don't know where, then we're in a serious problem. And then not only this law, but a whole series of laws, but also our behavior in terms of speeding up all these procedures, even a law that we will be able to rule out to make a production hall somewhere, and the lower infrastructure has full meaning. And not to mention that many of our citizens don't care about their property at all, so they don't book it on themselves at a time when it's not of financial interest to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32290	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32291	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, I agree with one part of your exposure. I think that this government shows, today the minister presented measures to help young people stay in the Republic of Croatia, to get easier employment, to get a fair fee for their work, and to put together a little bit of the measures that the entire government will give through various ministries to deal with that biggest problem, which is the issue of demographicism and survival in these areas. We also heard debates today about the situation in the rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. They're all justified and there's nothing to add to my thoughts in power or opposition. It's really a problem that we have to deal with, and I think we're going to do it in four years as far as we're concerned about this mandate. This law I say will need a little bit more through the second bill that should go very quickly to some further work to simplify the whole system, so that we can call it some let's call it a mini reform in terms of construction in the Republic of Croatia. Because we saw now on our own mistakes, on our own problems where we're wrong, and I don't think it takes much to think about what to do about what we really do to remove these mistakes most effectively without anyone being resented, but simply to create clear, simple procedures that Croatian citizens need to do in order to achieve what we want in terms of not only you said job, employment. And housing especially of young families that they can really do it now, because a large number of young people today live with parents over the years who are 25 and 30 years old and it is not really easy to create a family in such relationships. And this law is very important in that segment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32292	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for his reply. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Lovro Kuščević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here in the first row I thank you for such a constructive, broad discussion. It took a long time, but I must say that I have heard a lot of good proposals, constructive proposals that we will certainly think about in the near future. So, once again, thank you for the contribution you made in making amendments and additions to this Law. Secondly, I can immediately say that I accept the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, since it is purely nomotechnical, so corrections. Instead of space, the procedure in space, so here's what's going to be accepted, there's no problem at all. Point 3 I would say, that is, what has most pointed out in this debate with the judiciary. Well, I'm glad that in this House of Commons, we're alerting ourselves to a problem in the work of the judiciary, and no matter how much we say that the judiciary is not the subject of this law, we're touching it a little bit. I am pleased if this law, which my ministry is proposing, has also helped to warn all those who work in the judiciary, who are in charge of the work of the judiciary, to warn them that the problems are large, comprehensive and therefore to the gentlemen, so judges or all people working in the judiciary, in an independent judiciary, that it must be independent, that some procedures must be done more quickly and perhaps even better. Faster anyway. As far as this is concerned, and here we have seen that the speed of issuing the license itself is not so much a problem, but the problem in all of those previous actions that have to be fulfilled in order to issue a building act. So I can responsibly claim that our administration that we have in the ministry, the Department of Permissions of State importance, and any more high-quality branch of county or city will issue a building permit. So here at 48 hours I can guarantee any, so from the moment the complete request comes with all the necessary documentation. I guarantee we'll issue every building permit through the e-authority for 48 hours. But the problem is exactly what we've heard here, the various institutions that we have to have here are property, cadastre, expropriation, HEP, water, forest, water, and all the living consent we have to have. So here's really what I said I'm behind this and let this be an appeal to all these institutions to speed up their procedures so that the building permit can be issued in time and much, much cheaper and much more transparent. Here, if I may now pass by your representative and representative's remarks. Comrade Hrg, can the validity of the permit that has already expired be restored? He can't. But those who have not expired until the day of entry into force of this law will be able to extend under this Law. And here I think you'll be happy with that answer. My colleague Bulj, the base station, not only Bulj, but we also heard a debate. The rule is what it is, so it wouldn't be this law. So it's not a topic for this law. This law doesn't touch anything at the base stations. Base stations are regulated by the regulation that was passed seven, eight, I don't know nine years ago, several times changed. If we had to change it, we'd be changing that rule. In what way we'll see it, but in any case I've received your proposals to amend that rule. And, of course, after the law is passed that it's going to go in the change of rules, so we'll see what to do with it. But here's to make no mistake, maybe our public looking at us this law doesn't regulate these base stations and it's no bigger problem in the rulebook if there's a problem. I think it's a good thing that we've regulated the rules, that the rules of the profession, so the professional chambers say that these are tolerances. Because in geodesy, it's one measure, in the building of another, in some system of three. Therefore, we cannot legally regulate whether 2 cm or 2 mm or 30 cm is allowed. These are the professional chambers that will determine the rules of the profession and that's what's tolerable. Sorting buildings from 5 to 3, that's how we're gonna do it, and the tax problem. The tax problem has been solved. Therefore, there will be no charge for construction fees that used to be 5 and 3 but will be resolved by tariff regulations, and until then, by way of guidance to all those who do so. Doing business down on the list. However, I am convinced that by adopting this law to us, we will increase in the eyes of the Doing Business Board, so we will advance because with the amendments and additions of these laws will speed up a lot, reduce and it will affect the positive situation on the Doing Business scale. Energy efficiency. There he is, and Mr. Boric has touched himself now. So if the building is used for less than 4 months, then there is no need to do an energy review. There we had a big problem with our owners, not only in Dalmatia but throughout Croatia, which uses less than 4 months. I think it's justified that it's a good change. How do you determine? So the communal monks are very easy to determine by water consumption, electricity consumption, HEP account list, and the plumbing is very easy to determine how long this property was used. The extension of the term of validity of a construction permit by a colleague named Taritash says it's three plus three a lot, I don't think it's much. Here we heard a lot of MPs here who supported that thesis, of course it's not much. We have done this precisely so that our units of local and regional self-government have time to apply to European funds that no building permit or what they were doing would then have activated it officially only if it did not fail, and then it is no longer an acceptable cost to European funds because it has already been activated. As for the danger of material change and construction, unfortunately construction is not progressing so quickly that in this short time, the foundation and all materials will change, and as for the danger of being able to be in those six years will change, or in the first three years, that the spatial plan that regulates an area will change, for example, from housing to social purposes, there is no such danger because the law says so. in this proposal to amend and supplement if the purpose is changed in the meantime, it is not possible to extend that authorisation for an additional three years. So if there is a change of purpose, it cannot be extended. I don't think the same remark stands, the job of a geodetic is to record what he sees on the ground, transfer it to paper, and draw it, and the note has to be whether it has a useful license or not. Why is that good? So you're introducing a real estate tax, we need to know what we have in the field. Local self-government units need to know what they have on the ground, spatial planners when they're working on a spatial plan on these bases if they don't have these objects they can't make a quality spatial plan, they'll make a road across that facility. So I think this is a good provision and it needs to be kept in this law. Then there's Mr. Babic's answer to the validity of the permit. The implementation project is therefore not a problem because it will not burden the investor, it stands as an option, the investor can negotiate it or not, and I think it is especially necessary for a more complex project to be as well as for public procurement and investor protection, and ultimately the supervisory engineer will be able to act much easier. Why the issue of a licence in accordance with specific conditions? Yeah, why look for special conditions? I think Mr. Lovrincevic said the same thing, and I don't know who else. Well, look, we have to, here's Branko Bacic answered the question well. We need to get conditions from HEP, whether we have these currents, we need 30 kilowatts, someone has to say whether an existing trafo station can give 30 kilowatts or not, or whether it can be connected to the county state road under these conditions, etc., we need to have these special conditions, but of course we need to work on them to be released faster and therefore this debate, bravo, I support, we all appeal to all bodies with public legal powers to give these legal conditions faster. It was an observation of co-financing of offices, so county and city offices. In fact, it was the 2014 law that abolished the co-financing of county and city offices that issue construction permits. So we can't change that, but here I can point out, we're going to have legislation later on, about amending and supplementing the Law of Law, which we've reduced the tariff that goes to the state by 10%, and then we've transferred those 10% to the solving officer, so we're going to the units, so we're going to excuse the cities that have offices and counties, and we're going to pay back as much as we can to them and their finances. The wind power plants, yes, it's a big problem, we have a situation where the location permits were issued on 30.12. for the wind power plant so that during Christmas and New Year's holidays no one submits an appeal and that the location can be justified. It was done as it was done, I can't comment on the work of the predecessors, i.e. There's no need here. Protected tenants, so here in the second quarter of this year will be in front of you of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on renting apartments, which, in an adequate way, will be dealt with, and we will be able to discuss it in quality. Mr. Bunjac, extradition, nationalization. I don't know, that's what got him confused. I mean, the gentleman has confused the concepts of the Law on Extortion, the Law on Construction, the Law on Spatial Planning, so there's a confusing one debate Mr. Bacic answered well, so there's no need for me to repeat myself there. How this law will help Mr. Demetlika how this law will help local and county projects. It will help with several aspects, firstly that construction and administrative permit will be possible, regardless of whether it is not registered in the cadastre, it will help you with roads, sewerage, gas pipelines, all together, concrete agglomeration of Rijeka's now water supply system, the sewerage system that is being done, it will help you to say that it is a local or regional project, so that if the local project is declared a project of national importance and that is, if it meets all the conditions then it will go according to this law. Hence, many segments can help and will help. Implementation of the elaborate, Mr. Klaric, in the catastro. Well yes, the State Geodetic Administration is doing better every day, the statistics on the speed of implementation of the elaborates and the items in the waiting are getting better and better and the plants, the Rijeka area is the most critical, the longest waiting time is now, so here and let it be, now let this debate be an invitation to the State Geodetic Authority, and especially Turn out in Rijeka that little has to be fixed. But here I can announce that on Friday, if God gives a new functionality to the catastro, we will release it and copies of the plan by electronic means, but no longer print it and you have it, but now it will have its mark, its own code, and it will be a valid document, a valid document. Here, let's say in which day we will have this news, so here it is, we have implemented the ZIS throughout the Republic of Croatia, and it will certainly help to implement the geodesic elaborates of each species more quickly and quality. Mr. Lovrinović, the complaints of the neighbours here is what we have already commented, the deadlines of completion, that you said you should force someone to finish the building, that's what we predicted by this law. For first group buildings, the deadline is 10 years, the second group is 7 years, the third group is 5 years. And finally here was Mr. Boric's final presentation. Of course this isn't the perfect law. Of course you can do better, so can he. However, we as a promoter are quite sure that all these changes we have proposed are good and that they are going towards the goal of speeding up and improving, cheaper and making the construction system more transparent. In our plan of normative activities are the fundamental changes to this law in the second quarter to run them, not to be in the Assembly with you in the second quarter because it will be a stronger debate, a wider debate. And so I invite you to make all these remarks that you've made today, and here I have written them down and a great majority of them, or a colleague of the secretary of state, will be very happy to hear them. Mine is I would say a password that or a mantra that I've been repeating often, which is that laws must be passed not holy but a trinity, which is science, it's colleges, it's a profession, it's professional chambers, people on the ground, and we're like politics. It's really how we behave when we pass every law. This is an emergency, he went to emergency procedures, we've heard here by now, which is why he has to go so urgently. I ask you nicely all my fellow MPs and MPs no matter what party they come from. Here, I am pleased that the SDP Club has announced its support in advance, I am pleased that the HDZ Club, the Mosta Club, has announced support and I am asking others. Here's the IDS Club. I ask the others to support this law because it really will solve big problems, it will speed up major projects in the Republic of Croatia, and then when we discuss all the changes and then I stop here as a target, and you be a mess, and then we'll do everything we didn't do this time, make sure we have the perfect law as Mr. Boris wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32294	I would like to thank the representative of the promoter, the esteemed Minister, Mr Lovra Kustević. We have one notice to members and members of the Committee on Gender Equality. 7th session of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 1 March 2017 in the hall "Janka Draškovića" room number 202 starting at 14:00. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m. when we'll continue with the replicas. Thank you very much. 1:30 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32295	My colleagues and colleagues, we begin our afternoon plenary session. We have four replicas left for the presentation of Minister Kuščević, so she would like to ask for the first replica of the representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32296	Dear Ministers, I have listened carefully to your presentation in the final manner and among other things you mentioned special conditions and something you cannot influence, so that the special conditions of HEP, MUP, Croatian Waters and all of these Croatian institutions that participate in the process of obtaining building permits. However, here I would appeal to you, although it is not directly related to this law in that part alone, to take special care of areas within the urban plans of business and industrial zones throughout the Republic of Croatia in all cities and municipalities. Therefore, there can be no difference in the conditions of HEP for some facilities within the area of the urban plan for each of them to be issued in particular. I think that it can move much faster and more efficiently into that part of the job and about everything that we have previously spoken about and about the Law on Exclusion if, within the scope of urban plans as a special law under the Law on Extortion to which it refers, what is said about what is the specific interest of these areas and of land within the industrial areas so that units of local self-government that drive economic activity in that area can easily come into possession or into that space, build infrastructure on it, and then unbound for this process, which is followed by a judicial solution further as it is dealt with but thus shortened the time of the realization of all these numerous projects. Here, it's more like a proposal to think about those laws that will just be passed and that will be taught on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32297	Thank you very much. The minister doesn't have a reply to the replica. Let's move on. Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32298	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister, you have said that this proposal is not related to the law, of course because you have the right to adopt a rule, I have made a proposal to amend the rules and only because our citizens have the same rights as in the countries where teleopers come from, so we lose neither the Internet better nor, we lose nothing, and basically we become equal legal and in fact how many facts here and the former minister and former minister since 2009 have changed this law where teleoperate is essentially eligible that they do not need a building permit, i.e. that they need nothing, nor consent, nor should they pay, and there was one association that was all the time opposed by the Croatian Association of Protection against Electromagnetic Emissions. She hasn't heard from you. I simply at this point because I come from an area where these base stations have been drawing on every step since 2009, of course where they don't have to pay, where they don't have to give someone 2,000 kuna, they don't have to draw a building permit, they don't have to do infrastructure, they don't have to invest in Croatia and they literally mock people, under the window literally and hospitals, schools, kindergartens put base stations. This Regulation, these amendments to this Regulation, they only become the same as in their European Union countries. So we're absolutely not looking for anything else by this rule, and I think this is so simple to change and return to what is the former Minister Bačić and then Mrs Taritash hasn't changed, which is why it's their business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32299	Thank you. We don't have a reply to the replica. Please, the next replica, representative Ivan Lovrinović. I don't see him in the hall, he loses his right. And the next replica of Tulio Demetlika's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32300	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There are some answers and we've cleared up here with Mr. Minister and on the break, but I'd just maybe touch something else that we haven't touched, it's about the geodetic labs you mentioned. So, for a simple family house, an investor has to work two... elaborate, before the start of the construction and after. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there's enough after that. At the end of this first one, it could be lifted. And I'll agree with you you said at the very beginning of your final presentation that definitely the judiciary is a brake in the realization and acceleration of this whole process of getting you local, whether building permits. It is certain that the judiciary is independent and we all want it but we also need to understand this judiciary, that we agree with you, that it must be faster and more efficient and that it works in order to exactly protect and state property, local but also investor. And I welcome this decision that you have proposed, which is the financing of those of 20% to lower local units to 30%. It's not very special now that a large number of cases have been resolved, but this small percentage still satisfys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32301	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32302	The next item is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 94. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Legislative Committee, MP Davor Vlaovic, the Club of Representatives of the Rada Party and Solidarity, the parties of the intergenerational solidarity of Croatia, the Reformists and independent representatives. The Government's amendment became an integral part of the final draft law on the basis of Article 202. The Rules of Procedure, and the amendment of the Legislative Committee, was adopted by the proposing representative during the debate and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the remaining amendments submitted. Dunja Magash, State Secretary at the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning. The amendment, first, is the amendment of the Club of Labour Representatives, Solidarity, Party of Intergenerational Solidarity of Croatia, Reformists and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32303	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and representatives of the amendments to the Club of Labour and Solidarity Club and the Party of Intergenerational Solidarity and Reformists and Independent Representatives cannot or should be accepted because the practice so far has shown that a 15-day deadline for the coordination of the main project with specific conditions is sufficient. In addition, if that deadline is not sufficient, the General Administrative Procedure Act may request an extension of the time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32304	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32305	I accept your explanation. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32306	This does not require a vote on the amendment. The amendment has been withdrawn. The next amendment comes from parliamentary representative Davor Vlaovic. First amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32307	The first amendment of Assembly MP Davor Vlaovic cannot be accepted because the provision he proposes is the. The deviations of 0,3 metres cover a large number of deviations that occur in the construction of infrastructure and military buildings, inscriptions, roads, pipelines, power lines and the like, and a deviation of 0,3m for the building may be excessive and may be misused. The reasons for the amendments are partly not true because the proposed amendment, as so far, regulates the issue of tolerance from the main project during construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32308	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32309	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. We ask for a vote on this amendment on the grounds that we believe it is necessary to specify more specifically and more precisely which deviations are allowed in relation to the main project. Indetermination in terms of degree of tolerance under the rules of the profession will produce unequal criteria on the ground and make it difficult to obtain permits and control the implementation of the built-in facilities. We therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32310	I ask my esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs to approach the vote are they to include that amendment in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not obtained enough votes to be included in the final draft law. The next amendment also comes from parliamentary representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32311	The second amendment of Parliament's representative Davor Vlaovic is also not acceptable because Article 6 of the amendment and addition of the Law on the construction of the use of the exemption from energy certification allowed by Directive 2010/31 of the EU which is applicable and meaningful in the Republic of Croatia. In the event that we exempt from energy certification buildings intended for use in limited time over the year and whose expected energy consumption is less than 25% of the expected consumption from all year-round consumption should establish and prescribe the way in which this reduced consumption is proven. That means you would, for example. They should measure the consumption in the building, and compare it with the benchmarks from the main project or make additional calculations of the physics building to prove that the building will spend less than 25% of the expected consumption. In view of the prices of the production of energy certificates in the Republic of Croatia, both of those methods of proof of reduced consumption would ultimately be significantly more expensive than the production of the energy certificate itself and therefore counterproductive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32312	Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Representative Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32313	Thank you very much. We are looking for a vote on this amendment because this is a particular way of proposing a profession and that, on the one hand, we are harmonising this law through this article and with European Directive 2010/31 of the EU, where paragraph 3 also stands as stated in the amendment for energy efficiency, because of the more transparent management of energy and energy consumption monitoring, it would be necessary to put this in the article, so we are asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32314	I would ask respected MPs and MPs to approach the vote is whether those amendments should be included in the final draft of the law. The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not obtained enough votes to be included in the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 103 for, 16 abstentions and 1 against the law on amendments and additions to the Construction Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32315	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings, first reading, P.Z. No. 84 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Anybody in front of the board? If not, I would ask Minister Lovre Kusčević to say a few introductory words about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32316	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, Madam Secretary of State! Here are the gentlemen and Madam Representatives before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. Therefore, the adoption of this law shall reopen the deadline for the submission of applications by 30 June 2018. In addition, the method of allocation of funds from retention fees is amended and thus ensures that the speed of the resolution of the request is maintained. I'd dare say an even better effect. According to this new redistribution, as well as a fellow representative Tulio has now pointed out, 30% of the current 20 funds of income will be the unit of local or regional self-government whose administrative body provides a solution to the state of play. It also increases revenue from 20 to 30 if this solution is made by the Agency instead of the Governing Body. 30% of the funding of the fee is the budget of the local self-government unit in which the building is illegally built, and 40% of the former 50% of the proceeds are the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So this increases the income to 50%, and we think that the units of local and regional self-government will invest those resources in better teaming, in better equipment, and that will help solve all cases faster. It enables the recording of a legal building in a catastra and based on a solution to the state of play for an unfinished building instead of simply on the solution for the completed building. It also improves the effectiveness of law enforcement through further clarifications and by removing doubts regarding the delivery of calls, solutions and other acts through an ad panel, archiving of case files, the legal consequences of the legislation of buildings that are legalised as completed, the recording of legal buildings in the cataster, and a series of other nomotechnical, qualitative and quantitative changes to this law, which I am confident will contribute to faster enforcement of legalisation. Perhaps here's one curiosity, on today here's to having a report on the state of legalization, so to date 826 thousand 948 of which 532 thousand 93 were legally resolved. That means 64.34%. Of these, the counties and cities have solved 460 thousand 384 and 66.65% respectively, and the AZONIS has therefore solved 71 thousand 709 or 52%. The percentage of eligible solutions in the offices ranged from 37.53% to 99.76%. In addition to enabling the extension of the deadline, we will allow those who have failed to submit the application for objective or subjective reasons also to enable our fellow citizens and our citizens to submit the request again if they have been negatively resolved. However, we must stress now that this is not about new legalisation. It is very important that our public, you Parliamentarians and MPs understand that. There's always a reference video in 2011. What is visible in that video will be legalized with the submission of this request. If there is an illegal construction that was created after that date, it will not be legalised regardless of the extension of this deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32317	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We have a replica of your exposure. Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32318	Thank you very much. Well, I just wanted to expand this topic a little bit here and ask if, in any form and part, what is thinking about facilities in rural areas, given that Croatia definitely cannot look the same way. So it is not the same to have an object somewhere on the coast on the sea or somewhere in the continental part of Croatia in the rural environment where it is definitely not that there is no interest that people legalise it, but simply there is no possibility or anything else. So, the rest of the old people are either living or there's no one there anymore, whether people are tearing it down or what to do with it? So these economic facilities that are empty there definitely no longer have any purpose or purpose and people really have no reason to go into legalization of that same. Did you think about that a little bit? Was there any analysis in that section? And let's try to find another solution there that in an even easier way in these rural areas legalize economic meaning objects that are no longer in function that really people don't have a problem with not having to do the maltenes yet that we're going to have to break it down for them tomorrow and I don't know what to do, punish them. This part about raising funds towards local self-government in order, of course, especially because local self-government especially in those areas gives up their share just to make people cheaper so that's good. But it won't solve another big part of the problem means in rural areas. Perhaps even more, the first reading is to find some solution to an even easier legalization of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32319	Thank you, Mr. Representative. We don't have an answer. The next club is registered the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia. Representative Ivan Lovrinović. I don't see him in the hall. So he's losing his right to debate. The next one is on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, MP Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32320	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers, State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. With this law we are going back to one beginning again that when it was passed, actually thinking about what all possible scenarios are, what will happen when the deadlines that we have set expire. It was clear that under these conditions the model was designed that a large number of people would not respond, that these 820 thousand applications not all of them would remain numerous objects that would be illegal. And after this extension of the Minister's intensity is good, it will extend the deadline, allow some more, but the fact is we'll come back to the same thing and that's what's going to be the decision here primarily you're in the Ministry, the Government, this House, what with the facilities that are left, what we're going to do with them. Are these people going to be sanctioned, if I don't know how to impose on them a regime that the state would do on behalf of them? I mean, these are issues that really remain one of the biggest problems of this request and I'm sorry that and when it started it didn't actually go to one universal rule that practically whoever reported it had acquired a certain form of legalisation and when any of the problems in question with that property were any upgrade, sale or any other form that should then be done, I think we'd avoid a number of problems that occurred in the implementation. Just like my colleague Hrg, who mentioned what we're going to do in the middle where a building that is also legal is worth a few thousand euros, and then illegal ones are worth nothing. What about them, how the owners who left the facilities, what are we going to do as a state, will it all end up one day as some sort of despondent property that will come into possession of local self-government? What will local self-governments do with objects that are illegal, for which they cannot submit a request and become theirs by force of law? I think a number of questions are being raised and the biggest question was actually the price of the whole process because on average it's about 10 thousand kuna, it's going to be more. A lot of demands have been submitted, most of them without documentation. People are in a smaller number, somewhere here's the information about the two hundredths and some thousand are the ones who completed the documentation, these other time someone completed it, someone got a request within a month to supplement it, didn't supplement it, his subject was literally unfinished. So he didn't complete it, he was rejected, but that's still not the answer. Now we will have those who are illegal, they have those who have entered some legalisation process so they are declared still illegal and eventually it will be the smaller part that has come out as legalized. Of course those who have passed the actual procedure of entering the building permit will be dissatisfied, okay now someone who has not invested anything for ten, twenty thousand kuna legalizes it. So, just one very difficult question that we haven't given the right answer to which we see that not only is the problem with us but also in other countries and similar problems repeat and those who are, we have repeated those who were before us, those who are going behind us so that, I think, very quickly, will become a topic where a universal solution will have to be sought at European Union level. What was done with this job and certainly did not want another job for our banks where the money they were supposed to provide was provided and they were willing to say so they say favourable credit lines to get people involved, so there's some obligation left. We see, there have been problems, some companies like MiG Construction in my county that have cheated on many people, taken money, so not only have you failed to legalize but in good intentions you went, someone cheated on you, and now you're remaining illegal, you're left without money, and the judiciary still hasn't managed to solve that case or sanction the responsible persons. The big problem of course rural areas is precisely the yard with this I would say to the auxiliary and not only economic buildings, that economics have some function but numerous auxiliary buildings that, in other conditions of business, primarily agricultural ones have their own function at the moment, these properties that have a large volume, which occupy space that are not used and are costing in the legalisation itself. And not only that, but it should be returned that at the time of these objects are not objects just from recent history, these are objects that were created at the time and the former Yugoslavia built on a road network, water lines, phones, practically everything that makes up the legal object they got, only they weren't citizens with a building permit so I listened to whether it was true or a joke when a man from the space of the former Yugoslavia moved to Sweden, built a house and then they realized that he actually built it without permission. So no one suspected that something like that could happen at all, but it means it's small and mental, and we're trying to apply a bureaucratic system, change mentality, and it's a conflict of worlds that's very difficult to solve. We are also meeting with the problem that out of those 7 billion is some value of the total work, the implementation of all these documents, it is also promised to local, regional self-government that they will have revenues, some new people have been hired to work on it, now it is seen that this is not going at that pace, that these are not the funds that are not coming in the volume in which they are expected, we have complaints and mayors, although I would say they are not exactly as justified because we are aware that many are employees who are in the counties, which could be redistributed. So, one environment was created in which of the good intentions, of the real need, we were given one extra to say a complicated solution. We get this in time, but I'm afraid we won't get any more quality. So as far as our club is concerned, we will support, of course, and once again express our intention to help make this process possible not only by extending the deadlines but by really looking for a way out to allow all objects to get a certain form of legality and that the obligation that remains will come sooner or later but we can't declare it all illegal because then we would put into a situation that what, one day, someone will have to declare it a demolition. Who's going to tear it down, I've been saying in the previous exhibition if the destruction of one object is 50 thousand kuna, who's going to pay for it? Then we come to a new problem, so the ministers must be very difficult and ungrateful about this topic to look for a solution now. This is another possibility that the situation may be cleared up to one final solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32321	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. The first one for replicas was a representative of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32322	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, Mr. Panenich, you mentioned, you actually asked why and the meaning of legalization. But I think it's always better to do than not. In fact, we can wonder why so many objects were illegal in the first place. It's a question of all those generations and times when these objects were created. Unfortunately, there are only 55,000 cases reported in the area of my county. The city of Zadar has over 13,000 and 200 items. This has already been solved by about 7 and 700 only the City of Zadar. So, about 60%. And I'm actually asking how it was even possible that such objects and these powerful objects were possible because these are attractive areas of Croatia could have been created without any inspection then, nor was construction hired to control and that the system was actually controlling the creation of these objects. And here, now in these conditions, this whole situation is actually being fixed, so based on these legalizations, the data on the communal compensation of local self-government units and so on. But I'm saying, we can always say whether or not those who have legally built now are in one way, and you've certainly mentioned it and they've been punished in a certain way because they've actually paid all those fees and prices that building permits unlike those who haven't paid anything, and they expect actually a communal arrangement, communal equipment and everything that actually requires a single system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32323	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32324	Thank you very much. A colleague I'd say what wasn't looking for was any sense to me. It makes sense. I'm more invited to this method of whether maybe we should start with a much lower form that actually everybody registers. That they have done so, and that their obligation comes at some delayed time when they have a certain need. And specifically during this time I can give you an example of the 1980s a building was built in Pakostane, I was then here to buy an apartment in that building I come, standing the label of the inspection that the object was sealed. I'm going to the inspector's office to see what's going on. He says, "That object is for demolition." You know what happened to that object? No, it wasn't torn down but then it wasn't torn down it was the beginning of the '90s but it was turned and it was still taken off by that blob and people had arranged it, kept living there. Therefore, the problem was that even when it was known that the law had been broken that someone had always gone over it, to resolve it in a way to avoid that obligation. And that's when it wasn't settled. But I'm saying we inherited it. Now we'd settle it, but it's burdening us. It's burdensome because people realized it was a rule of conduct and they acted on it, and now we have to charge them all. We're accusing the systems. But I'm saying, people should still find a way to pay for it, to even up those who have really made all the commitments, to meet all their obligations to those who will only be in future time. But maybe it's a matter of time, not a moment, because now we see that both the geodetics and the architects are burdened with, that these aren't attractive jobs, that there's a lot of work for them a little relatively little money, that they appear so-called. companies that handle it, then cheat people. So, a number of problems came out of a model that was supposed to be a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32325	Thank you very much. Next replica, Agent Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32326	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You said in one part of your colleague Panenic that we might be units of local self-government who will have to take over some of these objects that will remain illegal and abandoned. In the second part of showing it means one situation as a result of this law, I don't mean these changes, but the total legalization law that units of local self-government benefit from it. It is true that some units of local self-government are absolutely benefiting. And I repeat again that we should look at Croatia differently. What's the use of my Crosses? We have 40 social and firehouses in the town of Križevci and gravity villages. None of them were legalized. They're all built by voluntary work. We've legalized 23 so far, and we've paid over 600 thousand kuna from the budget of the City of Chrysovci legalization costs. So somewhere around 20 and some thousand kunas on average is the legalization of one such home. Here, that's the benefit of local self-government. And then we come up with a situation where you mentioned electricity, water, I don't know, electricity, phone, gas. And you have a situation that this law is basically used as an instrument of pressure actually to connect to water where we can't connect the construction to water that has all the connections if it's not legalized. There's electricity, there's gas, there's a phone, and the water can't because the building isn't legalized. On the other hand, we should give people water. So the mass of illogical things, I really repeat what I said to the minister, must be seen differently, not identically. You have to see what with those rural environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32327	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32328	So the question arises how local self-government will be asked when it is due to charge real estate tax. What is our legitimacy to charge taxes on illegal real estate? It's if we're actually looking at it, it's something that doesn't exist, so we can't officially recognize it. If we put a tax burden on that, we legalized it. So it's literally that we ourselves will legally admit to the existence of something, it's already an act of legality if we talk about it. And it'll get us into a lot of trouble. Which is the document that we're going to determine the area of a particular object when we get the legalization documentation in it is exactly listed by the lab, which is how it calculates and what's left of it is obvious, let the commissions send and they measure it a little bit, so somebody tells me, don't let me do a little bit of this building, let it go anyway, you see it in bad shape, and there'll be complaints again. We'll, I'll tell someone how it went to be legal and somebody's gonna say that twenty, thirty, fifty squares less, so here's the deal. We're people, it's a tough situation. We're going to have a real problem out of it and everything with the intention of creating a better world.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32329	Thank you very much. The next replica of Anka's representative, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32330	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Mr Panenic, you said something in your presentation that intrigued me to ask you then and maybe share your knowledge with all of us. You said that legalisation is one job that may have to be dealt with in the future and manifested by the European Union, in your presentation you referred to it and that the legalisations had other countries as well. When it comes to the Law on Legalisation, which is now in the second amendment, then we took the experience of all the countries that were and regardless of these urban legends that you mentioned, so you mentioned Sweden, I heard it with Switzerland, and the illegal construction of people is everywhere, so that even in Scandinavian countries there is illegal construction believe or not but much less volume than in Croatia. There no one dares build an entire house but dares to close the porch, build a garage. The majority of the illegal construction that is in the countries of the European Union is Mediterranean. The countries of the Mediterranean were treated in different ways according to their illegal construction, so Italy, for example, has every ten years to get out of the military and the police, all unlawfully collapses, and in ten years, it has the same story. Greece has decided not to legalise anything, Serbia has done something of a role model to us and so on. So I'm curious when you mentioned the European Union maybe you have some knowledge that would be good to share with us, and I believe that both the Minister and the Secretary of State would help with the knowledge that you have because what I have for absolutely different countries of Scandinavia, countries of the Mediterranean several conditions. Slovenians did the same legalization but absolutely different, Serbs tried to make legalisation, Republika Srpska prescribed our law only put it on the Cyrillic so they have little trouble because they have no sea and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32331	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32332	I will not consider the European Union itself as such but it will certainly be a subject that will have to be discussed. We have here in Zagreb here in Trnje is that according to the general urban plan where the road route is actually envisaged, buildings that are tens of years old they cannot be legalized. Then it'll come to a situation that someone will say ok I did it then and after all these years you tell me now it can't be legal anymore, I'll sue you. Then it becomes something, someone complains about the institutions that I would say within the frameworks of the European Union you admit and where we should defend our position which we are, whether there was a chicken or an egg before, whether someone predicted first that there would be that road or someone said you were building there. If no one's stopped the building, who's to blame for it. I followed it right here in Serbia I see that they too have a lot of problems about it, probably in Republika Srpska there will be a certain problem that has been shared and what you've been saying, it seems that the south is more difficult to solve. I'm not saying that we have to be too sacred and that we can do it ideally but somehow I think that we could do it easier for people and that when they come in need of something to do then they'd just be forced to do it even if it was a connection and water.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32333	Thank you very much. Another replica, Agent Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32334	Dear Vice President! Comrade Panenić, you have here asked a really full series of questions that should be answered and the answers are not given. I believe that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia would like to have a legal structure, only one question is whether he can afford it. The vast majority of citizens today are without money, without work, whether or not they are blocked, whether or not they have a house, whether or not they should be executed and taken away from them, so that they have nothing to legalize, so in that way, I think that might be one question that we can ask ourselves. There are a number of citizens who went into legalization, paid all the fees, got some permits, solved the paperwork, settled everything they needed, and then eventually stuck to a state-owned institution, a company or a water-good that ultimately says you can't legalize. What about those citizens? We robbed them and they won't have legal structure again. We lived in a system someone more than 45 years where people knocked as they knew. Those who were lucky got a state apartment so they didn't have any problems, and those who lived in rural areas and suffered and had small workers' salaries knocked out as they knew and today they came into a position that they had to legalize something and they couldn't financially situationed enough that they could handle it. I think the state has put too much pressure on those people who really can't stand it, and that's where we left off, and a large part of those houses will remain illegal. I'll tell you the last village in Sisak-Moslavina County is Borovac, first in Brod-Posavina is Bodegraid. In these two villages you have 200 houses to sell, mostly they are illegal. What about them? People are gone. What, are we gonna take out the badgers and tear it down? So what country destroys what she did? I think it's really nonsensical. These are the questions and millions more that need to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32335	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32336	You nicely associated me with where most houses in some place were illegal then and that place was illegal, it would be so but I remember when the floods in Virovits County were then the responsible person from the Croatian waters said that but sometimes in the past it would not happen that these floods were causing damage because there were clear rules that people knew and were building where it couldn't happen, later a little urbanists forgot so they began to rush as they say to us, so it's important what a place looks like and not how suitable it is for life. And when you say what it means to get into the water well, here's what happened to me, for example, in my country, that they declared water good, and they drew it out, they cut off the particle, a little bit of signing agreement here, given that I didn't see any alternative to signing it because then they would have spent it anyway. I think in this case if some object is like that and came and if the family lives in it and what will make Croatian waters, and nothing, fold your shoulders, it is such a condition, should be smarter in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32337	Thank you. We move on to the next debate on behalf of HNS and HSU Representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32338	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed ministers, state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings or what we all call the Law on Legalisation. Legalization is one serious project, and at all this legalization project has left no one in this room indifferent. He did not leave indifference to those who were legally building and who had completed the complete project documentation, paid all the donations according to that building permit or whatever it was called in these premises there since 94th, so to this day the building permit was called in different ways but we always called it and we knew it was a building permit. Equally so lawless builders thought it might need to draw a line, say a date, with that date it's all legal. I have to admit that personally, I'm an architect, I'm trained to design, to develop at all, and that was equally strange to me, but we were aware of the fact that there is a terrible amount of illegal construction in Croatia. We were equally aware of the fact that in addition to the illegal buildings, you have a series of interventions that simply could not have been legalized and there was no procedure, these are the closure of the logs, some small extensions, so there were a number of things. When the law was done then some kind of Targit was thought to be 100,000 demands. The deadline was until 30 June 2013 and what was then experienced was that of these 826 thousand 948 requests around 200 thousand applications were submitted by June and then 600 thousand requests were submitted in June. Why? The reason was that people didn't believe. People didn't believe it wouldn't extend the date, people didn't believe it would be a serious legal process, and they thought it was another one of the projects that it was, so we're going to finish it. I have to say, this is the third legalisation project that's in these areas. The same way when you get into this whole legalization process I have to admit that I've done a lot of it, I've written a lot of articles and I'm still writing articles then there are four reasons why people are illegally building. One reason is economic, there's not enough resources, and then when you get into the depths of that house, it's the same thing when you build it whether you have a license or not, but it's not worth the same thing, so I could refer to another joke that's orbiting our premises but I won't. The same way the other one was social. There are some reasons especially there in the 1970s, the 1980s, the processes that were in Croatia were processes in which in the continental part a lot of people from the village came to town, in the city were going to work industry or work in the industry, and they didn't have the opportunity to get apartments, I think someone mentioned it here, and then some factories really gave people construction permits, and even there were some construction permits, I had this opportunity to see but very undefined, and the other process took place along the seashore where the opening of the 65th year of the Adriatic highway, 66th and 67th, opened the borders towards the countries of Western Europe, and suddenly it became an attraction and you should have made new apartments and new rooms from the tourist season to the tourist season. The third reason why it says that people are illegally building is because there were no spatial plans to do so today is no longer so, all the spatial plans have been made. The fourth reason was the slow issue of permits. And that's something I understand, if someone submits a request for a building permit and waits for a year or two, I understand the option that he's starting to build illegally. The result of that legalisation was 826 thousand 948 requests, the minister cited a number that was slightly smaller for some thirty solutions than I do. I just looked while the minister was talking. 538 thousand 314 requests have been resolved, these are the rightful solutions, these are the solutions that are finished, which are entered and which are entered and on the chart can be seen. In other words, what we can now determine is that the majority of these requirements have been resolved or some of them have submitted a request to evil should not have so I will submit the request, so later I will determine whether or not I had a building permit, some of them will have to refuse were made after 21 June 2011 and some of them have been doubled so that it can be freely said that the main legalisation has been resolved. And I understand the decision that is to reopen a new date for the simple reason that those who have not filed a request from different things or did not believe, or did not want, or did not have enough knowledge today do the next thing. Their request is being arranged in some kind of already issued solution. Or were there those who gave ten empty shirts and then sold their manual number, and then you have that in the request in Zadar is being resolved by Nashica or vice versa. And I understand that decision which is to extend the deadline and it's absolutely good. It just seems to me that this deadline of a year that is to be expected because the law is in the first reading, so when it's in the second reading, it's going to be about a year's opportunity to teach a request. Knowing us all again in the last month, two main demands will come because people will wait, and then they will philosophize whether they should or shouldn't change their minds or not. About how good legalization is, the bad information tells me that still the main case is solved, tells me that people sleep peacefully and say something, and most importantly when they ask me and they know how often they ask me what the point of legalization is. Well, the point of legalization is people's consciousness. We all know when our bank card comes out, we get our bank card back neatly, and there's no way we don't have a chance we can't go to the ATM, we know that and we know about the ID. But we didn't take care of our properties. No one case was where people said I had a building permit and then when they looked at it they saw that the absolute state of the field and the state of the building permit wasn't the same. So, there's a series of cases if I want to make a joke, I've really heard a lot of things in the field. It's always been the sweetest thing for me to do with the builder's guilt. Your builders are terribly guilty of lawless construction because it says, I made a deal with the builder, so there's a little brick left so that that brick doesn't get thrown, so then we built another room. There was one case that said: “Look, I thought it was all for permission and I came to see, and he did more. So what do we do now? We're not going to crash." So, everything and everything. However, this law did make it clear. Since the law is in two readings, so I'm kind of asking that you might consider that deadline because surely in the last month the main requirement will come, we've already learned this several times, so no matter what time that last month is going to be, it's going to be madness. My good friend calls me and says, "Look, I heard you're going to extend the legalization request." I say, "We won't." He says, "I heard we will, so I'll wait." And he calls me 30. 30th was a very important day because Croatia was admitted to the European Union, there was a big event on Jelačić's salary, and he calls me and says, "Look, I'm fine with my request, I guess I'll be able to hand it over by midnight." I say, "I guess you will." So that's the first thing because there will be a lot of those who have got negative solutions again. Maybe someone changed their mind. There will be problems with people who have received solutions to remove objects. But I think it's time to consider two things. One thing I said to the Committee on Legislative Affairs and to the Committee on Space Planning, and I think we managed to trace it in the meantime. Employment for a certain time. So, a series of offices hired for a certain time people who were already absolutely ready to work. But when you take the law then he says that only two years can be done for a certain period of time and then all the offices get in trouble where after 2 years then one day they fire, and then they re-employ. We asked, or the County Association asked the Ministry of Administration for an opinion, and then it was thought that in this law it could be said that the legalization work in the offices of the county and cities can define that certain time jobs are being done while legalization is taking place. And I think in the meantime we were able to trace that opinion, and I remembered what it looked like, and I knew what the sentences looked like, but I managed to remember that answer went to the carlovia county, so we were able to trace it. Why am I saying that? Because in the public debate when this law was then it was in the bill of law, and what came to us and what is now not there, so I hope it will come back because of course it will make life easier on the ground and allow legalisation to be resolved as quickly as possible and something to think about. I expected someone in the debate to mention it, but here, regardless of my relationship to legalization, that's a questionable relationship and legalization is one serious job, but behind that, you need to dig into the trenches and make sure that it doesn't happen again is Article 6. Article 6 states where it cannot be legalised. And then there are some conditions with the consent that can be legalized. And I'm going to give an example that's a good example for me, so it can't be legalized in the infrastructure corridors. And you now have, say, a defined, built corridor of power lines. The remote is built, the house is built, the house is located in the corridor, but it cannot be legalized. ... The mind that I have today I would be and then ready to say can also be legalized in the corridor of the power line if it agrees with the competent body responsible for that. [[You don't understand.]] Equally so in the corridors of the gas pipeline made. Those who operate the pipeline say the house doesn't mind. The house there may remain an eliminating element of Article 6. So I think we've already talked about this on the Committee on Legislative Affairs and on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Since the law goes through two issues, it may now be possible to re-apply, therefore, it is not about new legalisation, but about what has already been done to consider and that these elements that are related to infrastructure corridors are especially where the infrastructure is built. Therefore, not planned, but built to allow legalisation, with the consent of the body managing that infrastructure. I think that would be absolutely direct. And there's one last thing I'm going to say. There were 13 constitutional lawsuits on this bill. All constitutional charges have been dropped. They were rejected for the reason that he did not enter into property relations, which was relatively simple, only one complaint was partially adopted, and it is related to the regulation when applied. And speaking of the regulation, there's something undefined in the regulation, and I would somehow call it my sin. So the legalization or fee for keeping the building in space is paid according to and it all suits you to a certain volume. When that volume becomes large, I'm talking about buildings that have 50, 60, 70 or 100 apartments, then it's geometrically growing and it's much too large in relation to one apartment. I think it's a lot too big when I'm talking it means for a 60 square-square apartment the fee is paid more than a 100 square-square-square-square house and it's not good. The regulation in that part is absolutely mature to change, I think it needs to be changed. We weren't aware of the fact when we were doing it that you had big houses that weren't legal. For example, in Zagreb, you all come to the Bus Station and there is that building that cornered Dručić and Vukovar, it was worked by Tempo, the Tempo issued a location permit, but with the city of Zagreb, he did not solve property and legal relations related to the building permit, and that building never got a building permit. Such buildings in Zagreb have one four, five and one in Split, so there is not much but there is. It seems to me that somehow it would be absolutely right to define through the amendments to the regulation that the volume to a certain volume is behind the fee to the apartment square because it would allow these buildings to be kept in space. These buildings can get a location and construction permit in normal procedures, but they have problems that they can never solve, they are done in accordance with the regulations that were applicable at the time when they were made and cannot satisfy today's regulations. And this law says that they legalize buildings according to the regulations that were valid at the time of construction. So just final, we will support this law in the first reading. Somehow, my appeal to the Resolute Ministry is to consider three things. The first thing is the date, the second thing is Article 6 and the third thing that I think you've already solved more or less, which is that the law prescribes this work for a certain period of time and certainly a little bit check the regulation and it would be good for the regulation to, too, talk about the compensation regulation, change and allow these buildings to also legalize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32339	Thank you for your presentation. We have a few replicas. The first replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32340	Mrs. Taritash, I've been listening to your exposure. You mentioned that one of the problems is that there is this illegal construction. In fact, the entire mandate of the last government has been talked about these "immaculate builders" although it is clear that the whole system is not working because there would be no 800,000 such buildings. I think it's a measure that's in the service of the new world order because after all these buildings are legalized comes our property tax, now you've recorded all these properties well, people have reported themselves and now other than the price of legalization that I think is a clean sale of fog because hundreds of millions of kuna people are going to spend on paperwork instead of doing something concrete with it, you've actually pushed them into that rat race with time and throwing money at nonsense. But that main problem that you Mrs. Mrak-Taritash are not saying is actually free builders, so not these illegal brick builders who use extra bricks in a way that expands the house a little bit, but I say free builders of people like Marijan Hanžekovic who systematically means this masseary destroys our country and unfortunately these people will never come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, nor will our society ever be accounted for with this interesting lobby that is opposed to the interests of 99% of citizens, but I say people are harassed by these permits and in order to get permission to legally build a house they have to pay more expensive permission than to build a house. So much is the process expensive, long-term, and that's why people work lawlessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32341	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32342	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, I was expecting your replica but I expected a slightly different context given the work your father is doing because you probably had in talking to him you could get a lot of information about what illegal construction means, how lawless construction is being prevented, which should be done to make it not come to an improper construction, so I expected a slightly different context, but regardless of how you went back to that story that was. So part of the illegal construction certainly wouldn't have been if the system had been doing its job. The system included building inspectors, and it was expected that construction inspectors would do their job, so I expected you to do a little reference, but obviously it would be for another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32343	Thank you. Next replica representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32344	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mrak-Taritash, you have determined during your exposure that people in Croatia now after legalization in two-thirds sleep peacefully. And I'm really interested in whether citizens who have raised loans for legalization can sleep peacefully or perhaps in some perspective might be afraid of, say, actions, whether a certain number of citizens have been completed because of this legalisation, whether they have blocked accounts, so I would also ask you to tell me if you have any knowledge about it. I would also like to know if during your term the World Bank participated in the financing of the legalisation project and if it had any interest in this. And I'm also interested in whether this legalization is really a prevention of lawlessness, whether it is a prevention of lawlessness or it is actually an introduction to a new taxation of citizens, so I'm curious about what your view of real estate tax is, and will you also, as a declarative opposition, support HDZ law when that tax is on the agenda? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32345	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32346	Thank you very much. There were a number of questions, I'll try to answer all your questions. The World Bank had nothing to do with legalisation even at the time when the first law was made today, so the law was made, people legalized their facilities accordingly. I really took this 15-minute opportunity to speak and to say a little bit what the general context of legalization is and to say that according to legalization, no one really is immune. What is a characteristic of illegal construction in Croatia, unlike some other countries, is that when you look at a legal and illegal house they are the same in terms of their building characteristics. In the sense of his looks the same. However, in their worth, they are ultimately not because the legal one has its own value and is not illegal. Unlike some South American states or some states that are next to the Mediterranean where the difference in the way it's built implies whether it's legal or whether it's illegal. And when it comes to the Real estate tax law, I must remind you that this law has already been passed in this House. I must remind you that he is in effect with 1.1.2018. I must remind you that in the debate we have opposed this law, that we have given amendments that have been rejected and I am and then in the debate and today in the debate and now in the debate I will say what I really think. Therefore, all European Union countries have one type of tax. We're paying for it today. It's called a communal fee and it can turn into a real estate tax. However, this requires far more serious preparation than we had. Slovenians passed the law after 10 years of lawmaking. There were 2 million complaints about the solution because the solutions were and people complained about it. In the end, that law fell to the Constitutional Court. So, we're all very sensitive to our properties, that's what we have to be. And I'm afraid that this law too, not to be afraid, but it would be good not to enter into force on 1.1.2018, but to make good preparation and to delay the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32347	Thank you. Next replica representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32348	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Taritash, if I've heard correctly that you were once a building inspector in that former system, at least that's what I heard, but it doesn't have to be true. But here, you said the law should work. The bottom line is, we're doing business legally. I'm from Slavonia. Slavonia is if, you have seen, you have been down, but during Maria Teresa has made urbanization of Slavonia. And it looks nice today. We are watching today Zagreb, which was well placed during Maria Teresa and other Austro-Hungarians. Today we are looking at Zagreb's illegal houses that said social or economic problems were at the time, made when it doesn't look like anything. So we've been doing something that doesn't look like anything for 70 years. Not to mention the devastation of the sea and the rest in the former Yugoslavia's system. Now there's a minister here, so he'd ask him a question, and I'd like him to pay attention. For example, in Slavonia, people have built a lot of auxiliary buildings of the economy, so most of them in the fragrant states, however, they have to pay squares as if they've built houses. Okay. I think people shouldn't charge for it and let them legalize those premises without any compensation. And people can't do that. I know a few cases from my neighborhood where people just don't have the money to pay even an architect who's looking for abnormal money to do it. And these people who don't have enough funds and money, let them get to it in another way and that they can legalize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32349	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32350	So we have to go back to those 70 years and solve the problems we've been doing systematically. Here, that's my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32351	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32352	Thank you very much. My colleague, I can only answer the part that applied to me, and the minister I assume in the final presentation will refer to what you had the chance to say. No, I've never been a construction inspector. I'm an architect by profession, and I've been doing my entire working life one way or another with spatial planning. Therefore, I have never dared to do this work as a building inspector because I appreciate that if you want to do it as it is, you need to have a terrible amount of knowledge, and you have some other features that I haven’t had. But when it comes to legalization, everything that was done by February 15, 68 is considered legal. So all those objects and we're talking about objects that came from 68. That's why I tried to find an alibi for this many illegal objects in Croatia in the opening presentation, and I tried to find that alibi in the context of how illegal objects were happening. So, I can repeat, there's a different way along the coast, the Adriatic highway, the opening suddenly becomes interesting, there's no time, it's being built. It's different on land. It was this industrialization when people from the villages go to the cities and get it. But as always you know there's something I heard in this distinguished House when it was the Law on Legalization we've been all day and I see that there are some people sitting there who still sat there. And then I heard something that I really liked, and it says it's not illegal construction. That's what one MP told me that no longer stands, he says, "There is a traditional self-building in Croatia." Traditional self-building means when you get together with your neighbours and build a house for the weekend and then he tries to explain to me that it's a constitutional category of this traditional self-building. So there's a lot of stories about illegal construction. I understand that no story is the same. But for the end. The difference is between Slavonia and the sea. The difference between an auxiliary facility and a residential building and when you compare the difference, you go up to 21 times cheaper on land than at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32353	Thank you. We have another replica of your exposure. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32354	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Tarritate, in your presentation, I noticed that you referred to the ministry that you once ran, and when you mentioned your sin, then I certainly took it as a sin because you made one big mistake at the time, and you mentioned here speeding up the legalization process. You did this to set up an office in Zagreb, and let's say in other counties, you took jobs from the cities because you hired a few people here who didn't do the job we expected in our counties. I come specifically from Požega-Slavon County and it didn't turn out so well. I now appeal to this ministry not to do so because we were just supposed to hire people in the continental part of Croatia in other cities, in the counties and not just in Zagreb. And it's something that you've done the way you shouldn't, and it would have taken you for one great sin because you've made it impossible for a few young people specifically in Požega-Slavon County to do it for a certain time, to teach them how to do it and so that tomorrow they're finished and ready people. In this way you have disabled, and your part of the work that you were going to do in Zagreb has proved to be unworthy and ineffective, and by doing so we have already been able to resolve the issue of legalization in our counties that while you were a minister, you were allowed to employ people for a certain time. And like I said, we teach these people how to work. I appeal to this ministry not to make such a mistake and to these very counties, especially those who have the will, the desire in the continental part of Croatia enable the employment of young people and to get them as ready and ready as possible in their profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32355	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32356	Thank you very much. You've listed a series of things here, so let me give you an answer to that. I'm now trying to open up on this laptop of mys so let's see exactly how many cases were in Požega-Slavon County, how many were excluded and how many were in the Agency, and I suggest you take a look at it, and you can also check it out with the Registrar or the Minister. The Agency's decision to make was impossible. So there were counties that did a great job. There were also counties that said you'll never set up the Agency because you won't be able to do it and then these county heads were HDZ mayors, so it wasn't some party division doing a great job. And there was a county that at the pace they were working it would have taken 98 years to solve their legalization problem. According to the data that I just read here when the minister had an inauguration, 130 thousand items came in. Out of 130,000 items have been solved somewhere over 70,000. So it's not that little. And compared to Požega County, in Požega County, I think there was three exceptions and it is below the agency's average at this time. ... Yeah, but we're not gonna get used to it because it's absolutely rude of everyone else. [[The intruder doesn't understand. .../]] But if you've listened well to my exposure, then I warned of the fact that in the material regulation, it is possible to arrange jobs at a certain time, offices in the county and in the cities for a certain time related to legalization. Minister of Climate, he knows what I'm talking about. The secretary of state, too. I think by the second reading in this law, it's going to be possible to get rid of it in the offices for a certain time. It wasn't possible when we were doing the Law on Legalization, AZONIZ was just out of pain, not out of need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32357	Thank you. We're going to the next debate. On behalf of SDP representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32358	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Here, on behalf of the SDP Club, I will explain my party's position on the basis of amendments and additions to the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings. I will not refer to this text that I have fully agreed on, but I will just not repeat the dry numbers that the minister already said at the beginning of the debate I will say that the SDPs support the amendment of the law as simple amendments to the law follow the trend and settlement of the case. We just point out that 830 thousand requests have been filed, almost 2/3 have been resolved 65%, but the amendment of your law also respects the fact that this procedure has already been implemented for 4 and a half years and that we still have to look at at least 3 years to solve this serious project by the end. I believe that jobs will be more and more regardless because among other things it should be reminded that some complicated objects or people with whom it is a little harder to get into a communication that does not live there, but also those who have financial problems to resolve these demands a little slower. The deadline for June 30, 2018, I think it's good. It should be communicated to the public in quality that many who have lost their right or have been denied requests to report again. Because I'm going to remind this whole legalisation campaign from before Minister Tatiras and from you colleagues Bacic has gone slowly with the video and with everything, that she has created a different climate in the country so that we can realize that the law is really good for one single reason, because it's obvious that there are fewer illegal objects since 2011 until now and it's drastic. I also welcome the new allocation of resources to work as county, city, competent centres and agencies so that the work can be done by the end. And also these technical changes mean around archiving, etc. There's one thing I'd like to warn you about here when we're discussing what I'm obviously seeing is that some are still unclear. The building permit was always necessary and always had to be established. The truth is we are who we are, so we like to get a little bit more involved in the discussion, but we haven't got permission, we've been dealing with an existential issue. But I'll remind you of what happened at sea when the cottages were mass-building. I know a lot of cases where a house is bigger than a plot and cases like that. It is simply the whole process that should lead us west, not according to this colleague Taritash compared it with Greece that we simply say that we are not the Balkans, so let's act the way most countries in the West behave. I think this whole campaign was good. Of course, there was a time of great economic crisis both in Europe and in Croatia that it took many more time and resources to legalise their facilities, but always compare with those people who paid 3, 4, 5 times more if they issued a building permit and built their facility legally. I remembered even another reason why many did not legalize, there were even cases on the ground that the officials themselves who issued the permits told the parties that they did not need permits for certain facilities, and by law they should have. Here's to not going too far, a lot of people reported for discussion. The SDP club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32359	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32360	I thank the esteemed vice president. Well, I think you guys mixed pears and apples. I think what was for existence so it was built as it could and the cottages were two different things and you can't see it that way. There are definitely people who had to build windows in order to survive the winter when they were building houses because they had no money to build, and they weren't in that group that built the cottages and I don't think it can be identified as what someone recently saw in the debate today are properties in Croatia in rural areas where they built economic facilities that have a large volume and which today are far too hard to financially expose because maybe even their value isn't as much as they should pay for it to be exposed to paying for municipal fees, water contributions and everything that burdens such legalisation. There are some things that need to be broken down, and it's really social where people solved their existence to have a roof over their heads and normally those who had extra money, so they built illegal cottages around the Adriatic, and it was once built during the last country from a cult, not perhaps more needs. And someone then allowed it to be built, and today all the parameters in society have changed, and so the possibility of even legalizing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32361	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32362	Thank you. My colleague Lenart didn't mix pears and apples. I just don't want to speak populistly what my voters want to hear, but the fact of what it is. I wanted to show you in a picturesque way how the climate was in the country from the '70s, '80s and by 2011 when it was really by law and by a year earlier, with announcements, and all preparations are created by the climate as it should be for people to just legally approach the building. I realize that's the problem. No, the state must always know how to put it. Unfortunately, those who can't legalize now and for the next year and a half days, I believe we'll find some sort of solution at that point. But we should simply also put everything in an equal position in the legalization process, because by researching history, which is why someone was building something, when and how I think things are from which they would never be excavated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32363	Thank you. Another replica of Anka's representative, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32364	Thank you very much. I'm actually using this replica because I was able to open the Ministry's site in the meantime, so maybe we should refer a little bit to why AZONIZ was founded and why it was. So when it comes to Požega-Slavon County, it is the third from below and has solved 32.25% of them, and thanks to AZONIZ, that percentage is at 43%. And the worst counties are, I only read what I can do to the worst, Vukovar, Požeška, Sisak-moslavina. This was one of the reasons why AZONIZ was then founded and why it was necessary to solve it. And if that were not the case, then the number of cases solved would be 460 thousand in Croatia, not 532 thousand and the percentage would still be slightly smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32365	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32366	Thank you. I'm glad you found that information. I'm sorry my colleague Lucic isn't listening yet. But in his replica he revealed that unfortunately here is his county is the third from behind to solve the case and the establishment of the Agency was justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32367	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32368	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, my colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will also support amendments to the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings. Before I say a few words about the law itself or its amendments, I would return to the spring of 2011 when we set out in the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Legalisation of Colloquial Named or Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings. At the time, I must say, the ministry absolutely did not possess any information on the number of construction facilities in Croatia. We talked somewhat shyly about 300 thousand buildings, objects that would be legalized in the process. Finally, we received 826 thousand 948 requests, which is certainly not the number of illegally built buildings, and there are others. So we'll see over time when the deadline for submitting requests will be what the number will be, and then it won't be the final number. At that time, when we started the legal process, we drew up as the then government and ministry... and the Association of Architects, and the Association of Architects, a number of associations of citizens who claimed it was an extremely unconstitutional act in which, in an unequal position, citizens who had built neatly with a building permit, paid all the fees, did project documentation, paid a municipal contribution, etc., and someone who had not done anything willingly in the area where construction was not practically rewarded by the state in this way. We argued that we were doing this for a series of social, economic and legal reasons because, as Mrs. Mrak-Taritash said before, and that first law that was passed in July or June 2011 and the subsequent law that was passed for the Government when Ms. Mrak-Taritash passed several constitutional lawsuits. And it was finally found clear that it was the right of the state to legalise this way to deal with buildings, properties in its space. However, what I was saying and when that law was amended, that is, when a new law was passed in 2012, and I am going to say that now. There was a difference between the first law and the second law. The first law has made the procedure a little more complicated in the beginning, the first law since 2011. He created bigger problems for the owner of the building, and he may have cost a little bit more at the beginning. It seems to me that the second law that was done was a little more populist. He simplified the procedure, he was cheaper at the beginning, but I'm going to ask Mr. Minister to show us by the second reading how many buildings we are, and we've heard that 530 thousand and 285 to the day of writing this bill, how many have completed the whole procedure and entered the cadastre and the land book. That's the difference between law number one and law two. The first law I say in the beginning cost a little more, but it forced the owner to the land book, to the garnery, and therefore the citizens could hardly wait for this second law in 2012 because it was simpler for them, because the municipal contribution if they paid and when they paid, the water contribution if they paid and when the salaries did not have to worry whether it would be implemented in the catastrus and the land book had a solution to the state of play and they legalized their building. But the goal that we gave ourselves back then to the first law was not only to legalize the building, but to insert it into both records both in the cadastre and in the land book. This process was more expensive at first in a certain way, but the geodetic once came to the field. And when he first came, he took the data to get your building through to the garret shop. Now, according to this law, we'll sort out our demands a little faster, but we'll get a solution to the state of play. But to move towards the cataster and the garters, we'll once again address the geodetics, the state geodetic administration, and then we'll go to that procedure. So that was one difference to me. And the other law has simplified the procedure. At the time when we went with the first law we had so much pressure and associations of citizens and architects that we gave too many restrictions which in some ways complicated the procedure. That's where it's supposed to be all the way to being honest. I agree, I don't know, my colleague Franjo Lucic left. I don't think the Agency was necessary. I don't think the agency was necessary. Here, as we can see, the Agency has solved less in percentage than the county. She sort of compensated these worse counties, so she took some of their items. But I believe that the money the state has invested for the Agency has left to local self-government, we have strengthened the administrative departments of the counties that conduct legalizations to ensure that the result in these counties is even better. If we had given money to the Agency to local and regional self-government units we would have had a better result in Požega if we had hired in Požega, I apologized for what Mrs. Mrak-Taritash said, but if for example Požega or Vukovar or Karlovska or Sisak County if they were worse in percentage than the rest of Croatia that the funds we invested in the Agency would have been raised in any case. Not to say, I'm interested, I know in my county that a single administrative department expresss on the ground, works as an eyewitness, checks the situation, and I was interested in whether the Agency is going out on the ground. I'm interested in how many of these, in this number of cases solved by the Agency, how many eyewitnesses were made, and how many were carried out in Požega County? So we'll see if the effectiveness of that agency was to the extent that it was a necessary organization, its formation interests me alive, so I'd ask the minister to see if you can determine that to another. At that time, I claimed and now I claim that we centralized the work of spatial construction at the state level, and took it to local or regional self-government. I didn't think that was necessary. Okay, the political decision was to make it. I don't know if we did the right thing here, you can check it out. Rock. Well, to be honest with you more than six years after we've been legalized, I'm not sure if the deadline is necessary at all. I'm not sure if the deadline is necessary. The largest legalisation in history in these areas took place on February 15th 1968 and did not prescribe a deadline. You today have citizens in Croatia, the owner of buildings that were built before 15 February '68. No one's forcing them to report their building. I don't have a building like that today, but if I had a building that was built in my family before February 15th, '68. I could apply today to draw into a cadastre and a land book, that it be mutilated, that it be planned. Therefore, I am no longer sure whether this deadline is relevant at all and why, say, on 30 June 2018, it was thus decided by the ministry. One who can't legalize the building will never be able to legalize it unless we change the law. So, Article 6, we've prescribed where something can be legalized. If it can't be legalized, and for that we have a plane record and an orthophoto map since 21 June 2011, then whoever isn't on that card who doesn't recognizes can't be legalized and will never legalized if the law doesn't change. I'm not inclined for us to keep giving in to the criteria and legalizing everything, because it's a bad message on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have to leave a reserved space for the purpose that we as a state, as a regional self-government, as a local self-government for those spaces. But the second question is whether we have the strength as a state to destroy it, it is no longer a question of this minister. Do we have the power as a state now to destroy properties we cannot legalize? Acting under the Construction Inspectorate Act, it should be destroyed. It's just the fact that what we've heard here today in the assembly is that there are buildings where people live, which are social cases, etc. etc. Can we after closing our eyes for 10, 15, 20 years and we knew that the building was illegal, that it was in that space, that we could take it down today and create new social problems. So in any case, I am to continue to allow for further submission of applications. I'm asking if the deadline is necessary at all. When we wrote the law, we also set a deadline, then we lived in another belief that we have today. After all, six or seven years have passed since then. Today when I look, I don't know, I'm not sure that a deadline for a person to apply for legalization is necessary to a team more than there are sanctions if that doesn't happen. There are no sanctions if no one does. He'll be left with the building as illegal, and most of the buildings that can't even legalize are also on the ground hard to take down. I think we need to put ourselves in a position on the ground as a state or I say that I am not inclined to further facilitate and modify that article in which we claim that in the corridors of maritime good in national parks, etc. where all is forbidden legalization. I agree, and I support it to be possible through the purpose of the compensation to increase the funds and the agency if I have to say so. At this point, she's here. It seems to me to be one body that still has a certain duration. Because what about the agency when it's all settled together. So, when she was here, I thought she was unnecessary. When it is also necessary to provide funds and to provide resources to single administrative departments, i.e. counties, to implement the requirements as soon as possible. But when we find out that we've written those demands, we haven't yet continued that second step, which is that these objects are eventually recorded as I say it was with that first law envisaged. So here's what I'm going to conclude. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club support this law-making. By the second reading, I'd like to see if the Ministry can give us all this information that I've asked here to get to know them, to see how much this law that is in force and legalization that came out of it had its reflection in the cataster and the land book, so that the funds are clearly ensured that the issue of legalization can be resolved more quickly. To be clear, let's see what the proposal is with objects that can't be legalized, what about these objects. And what's important, Mr. Minister, and it's tightly related to the law we discussed this morning when we talked about the fact that the unsettled property-legal situation in Croatia, and one of the reasons for lawless construction is the unsettled property-legal relations on all these parcels, it would be good for you to manage at the government level to choose to fund the state's revenue from the fees to keep the buildings in place, to really make it available to the state religious administration that we already have a state programme of state measurements and a cataster of real estate, to include as many cities and municipalities as possible in the programme, to make as many new measurements as possible because with fixed property-law relations there will be wherever and where less and less illegal facilities and faster resolution of all those projects. So it would be good for this programme to be established and that the funds that are collected in this way go back where necessary, which is to solve the space in the Republic of Croatia through those two records. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32369	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. The first replica of Anka's representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32370	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, you were also talking about the law that was passed in July 2011 and the law that was passed in July 2012 and the difference which was and we need to make it clear and loud and you and I tell the law when it was 2011 the associations were against, the chambers of architects were also the law when it was 2012. they even made demonstrations to prove that this should be dealt with differently. The main wish at that time was not to be legalized everywhere but to be special committees that would decide under what conditions could be legalised and what not. I was also then and now when the law was in 2011 and 2012 and today I am sure that it is not a good methodology when you allow someone to handle it freely. However, you were intro and later on talking about the problem of enrolling buildings in the cadastre and grantovnica. The problem of enrolling buildings in catastrus and grantovnica also has houses that have building and use permits and have illegal buildings. And this is a problem that we already have for many years and about the problem we talked about at the Construction Act, and I believe that we will talk every time, so Croatia is about 9% of Croatia's space is arranged in terms of having an up-to-date cadastre and that we have grantovnica as it belongs, this rest is not. Croatia is 5.7% of the construction area and I think that the effort that should be, and it is absolutely somehow a message to the current government to try to solve those 5.7% of the construction area, that if measures are done to make measurements for it and by the same methodology then both legal and illegal houses are implemented because both legal and illegal houses have the same problem. You also mentioned the Pelješki Bridge and thousands of parcels that were located when you spoke about the Construction Act. And illegal houses have this problem and there is no other way but through administrative procedure related to the cadastre and the next administrative procedure related to the grantovnica, and here I think it takes effort to build the area of one procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32371	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32372	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, many times we've polluted about this law, in some things we've not agreed on in some ways. So, what I was about to say, you're right mostly everything you said, but what I'm doing with this law that's now in effect didn't agree that he was ending up with a solution to the state of play. I'm not happy with that because we found that there's some illegal object out there, we've legalized it, and that's the owner of that illegal facility that he's legalized now, he's got a document that he's telling him at every moment you're calm now, you're not going to get the baggers, you've solved the legality issue of his facility. And now I think and then I thought when the first law was supposed not to stand there. When he received a solution on the state of play, he was administered, administration, state bodies or local bodies should have slowly dragged him to the fact that he was also enrolled in the cataster and that he was enrolled in the land book. I say it was more expensive, it cost a little more, but it would've been good if we'd done it, and if we'd put 800,000 kunas in the garter, we'd put it in the catastrophe. That was the intensity. And I agree with you and the first and second times, many organizations have protested that this legalisation does not happen, but I agree with you, it is much better that the law resolves this than that it was left by arbitrary decision to any commission or experts, architects, builders, planners and anyone else. Therefore, both on this side and what you did when it comes to the equality of all citizens was established by your law that was passed in 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32373	Thank you. The next replica of the representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32374	Dear colleague Bacic. You mentioned actually voiced doubts about the agency that was founded in terms of speeding up legalization procedures. And I'm also speculative about the agency itself since for three years, in our area in the city, that agency has solved 300 cases which is usually resolved in the city in a month and a half. So that can't be any excuse for the existence of those agencies. If they were to help some parts of Croatia, it is welcome in any case, but I think as well as you would, with an increase in stakes, and it is only now happening with these 20, 30% for units of regional self-government in the fee paid for legalisation, so then they could empower themselves offices in cities or counties and thus a lot more cases would be resolved. Especially here where it's fact that he didn't achieve the effect he wanted with the agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32375	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32376	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Perić, you are well aware of the work of the management department that brings solutions to the state of play, and I am and I have now said on behalf of the club and here I agree with you, and I spoke to you when the agency was founded, that the funds given to the county and large cities for the adoption of the legalisation solution are better placed on the same single administrative departments, instead of the establishment of a new state body whose headquarters is in Zagreb, whose job is to jump around the territory, real eyewitnesses and that in the end we will eventually collect that legalisation, or we will spend more resources that the state collects on legalisation fees. It was better, I say that the administrative departments were strengthened that we hired those people on the ground right near those same objects that they realized to make it go faster, but then it was so assessed so decided. Today we are where we are, I support when the situation is already such that the agency is helped, but it would be good to speed up the agency and reach the average of Croatia when it comes to legalisation because, it seems a little unacceptable to me that we have established a body to help the counties and today it solves it more slowly than the counties and cities that they should have, to whom this agency should have helped.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32377	Thank you. Next replica representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32378	Thank you very much, Reverend Bacic. You said you were against the legalisation deadline and really asked what the meaning of that deadline is if during the time since legalization was introduced you built or started building a whole series of illegal objects. And so we will find ourselves in a situation that, by the end of 2018, we will again have a large number of illegally built buildings and will virtually turn out to be the best thing to do. However, if permanent permits are allowed, so legalization of buildings, then actually any legal building loses its true meaning. I'm also interested, the ministry boasts, at the moment there is no minister that has legalized two-thirds of the illegally built buildings, but what about one-third, is, I suppose, these are difficult cases, which will happen to them within this time limit that is now being set. And I will personally ask you, given that you represent the club of the largest parties currently in the Parliament, what are you doing that no new illegal construction is coming? So you're the government now and basically you're asking your minister what he's doing, he's looking at you, he's not answering anything. So now you have the ability to actually do prevention, you have the ability to encourage those citizens who meet their obligations to the state to continue doing so without those who don't actually do so that they should actually bear some more tangible sanctions, but as far as we see no sanctions are provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32379	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32380	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I don't know where you get the information from with such mass, new, lawless construction. You came here I don't know, it seems to me thousands, if I've heard it well, new objects, I'd be interested, here's the minister, I don't believe it's happening, and if it happens, that even one new building was built then it's an absolute responsibility at the ministry, or at the construction inspection. In fact, illegal construction was created partly because of the failure of the construction inspection. If the building inspection reacts as soon as they start to build on the basis of the start of the facility then the problem is much smaller. The problem arises when the building is finished, when people have moved in, when the building is already built, then it is more difficult to react. Therefore, I was surprised by what you said and I think that, that the ministry has to do well through the construction inspection at a prompt rate to respond either to the application, whether I have found that this legalization, this illegal construction is still taking place. As far as the deadline is concerned, I said that when there is no sanction or at least it is not carried out because of the delay and we are aware that numerous lawless builders were late in the application which was previously set the date that then the question of whether that date, whether it will be 30 June 2018, is going to be 31 December that year or half a year later, seems irrelevant to me when there is no sanction if you do not report it. Although construction inspection for all those illegal objects that exist on the ground that can't be legalized under the law if they don't crash them. That was my rhetorical question about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32381	Thank you very much. Next replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32382	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, so don't go building inspections on illegal construction sites, they go where the tables are outside, where the building permit is reported, where you can see who's the investor, who's the contractor, they come there. They don't go where there's nothing because they say they don't know how to get there, so they won't mind people. Recently here in the Parliament, I was showing some papers that were also tables, so here we see how it worked, but that's not why I answered the line. You've also raised a question to all of us whether we have the strength as a state to tear down some buildings where I don't know people of socially endangered status. I'll add here, if we have the strength to go down, I repeat, in the rural environments of the barn, pigs, barns, economic facilities. Or do we have any way to find a model in these amendments to the law by the second reading, at least some categorization, I don't know what, that we simply don't create ourselves problems because it's not just about our strengths anymore, but it's about the question and the money that needs to be invested. And one more thing, and here I am asking you as a representative of the club of the majority party in the Croatian Parliament, in the ruling group to really see more and here is the minister here to free all charges and... social facilities especially in rural areas, sports, firehouses, social homes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's really embarrassing, I say here in my town, I said I'll say it again, we'll make a million and 200 thousand kuna from legalization and we'll pay for the legalization of such social objects exactly that much money. And if the law were to allow for construction arrangements to be formed in cities with the possibility that some of the surrounding municipalities would have much more effects and much more could be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32383	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32384	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here is a fellow representative and mayor of the Križevci, not in fact, over-replicated to me, but said what he meant to say in an individual debate, and I support him in this more than a team, which says that the facilities of social purposes, fire departments that he mentioned two, three times today would be well legalized without compensation, thus helping the budget of the town of Križevci and other units of local self-government. But I'd also like to join what Mr. Hrg said, and I haven't been able to say on behalf of the club. Mr. Minister, to get into this debate, think about making it possible to legalize illegal buildings that have only foundations, bearable walls, have beams, and have no ceilings. Namely, on the 2011 orthophoto map, we allow legalization of the building that has the first floor, bearing walls, and does not have to have a second panel or roof over the building. Therefore, if we allow this building to legalise a floor that does not have a ceiling, then, by analogy, we also allow those buildings that are clearly on the orthophoto map where these works were established that did not have a concrete plate on 21 June 2011, they did not have a roof. I don't think there are many such examples, but I do know that the single administrative departments have rejected several demands where they couldn't legalize such an object, So here's to the second reading, see if it's possible to do that because I agree there's no building because there's no roof. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32385	Thank you very much. Representative Maro Kristic next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32386	Dear colleague Bačić, I actually wanted to support your exposure as well as a lot of colleagues and you. I do not see any specific purpose of setting a deadline for applying for legalisation at all, especially for the reason that there is a period which has been established in fact until when an object was to be built in order to be able to apply for legalisation at all. In your debate, I find it quite interesting that the part where you were talking about the state should have the strength to actually tear down those illegally built objects that cannot be legalized. I think it's extremely important and the state should certainly have the strength to tear down these objects precisely because these objects leave a big wound in the space, but it also poses one obstacle to responsible spatial planning in the future. And I was also going to add that one part of these funds that remain at the disposal of the local community should certainly be designed to make urban planning arrangements, but not in the way it is done now, because most local communities do not have their own financial capacity to finance urban planning themselves, so it is rarely done by the investor and then they absolutely control these processes and often leads to a lot of conflicts in public space because the local community is not sufficiently involved. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32387	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32388	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As far as illegal construction is concerned, I did not say that it would not be wrong to understand how I encourage and, yes, that, as far as illegal construction is concerned, the transitional solution is certainly a minimum of what the state should do, which is that the law prohibits and is not possible to legalise buildings that are in traffic corridors, in corridors of infrastructure facilities on maritime goods, in national parks and which are built on land that has a different purpose than an existing illegal facility. What is minimally to say is that, I think when a project is realised, any infrastructure corridor, roads, when a particular land is to be taken to the point, it is quite clear that there will be a clear destruction of these objects. I don't think that way we can fall into a trap to legalize and what tomorrow will interfere with the realization of a particular project. It's a minimum that the state through the law must protect and thus not allow legalization where we know we have to crash because then we just made it seem like a big problem to ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32389	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. The next individual debate is representative Josip Boris. You're giving up? Thank you very much. Next individual debate representative Ivan Pernar. He's not in the hall. The next registered representative, Branimir Bunjac, is not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. And the Prime Minister's closing statement, please, Mr. Kuščević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32390	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is, as with the previous law, I thank you for the constructive debate, for a number of good, quality suggestions and suggestions, and here is my advance thanks to all the clubs that supported this first reading. Here, I could briefly look back at my colleague Hrg, Bačić, Panenic, who said what to do with legalization where there is no interest, how to make it easier to legalise. Well, let me just take a moment to get the law. And we really can't say that neither Mr. Branko Bačić when he passed or proposed for the first time Mrs. Taritash's law when she was making changes, so here we are now making these changes that we've complicated that procedure too much. Namely, when you have a 50-square auxiliary building, you know what's enough to get legalized? Three examples of a copy of a catastrian plan that we will be able to print in our home from Friday, three days from Friday, so in our apartment and the act on which the main building was built. It's an auxiliary building, so it has to have the main building. When it comes to buildings up to 100 squares or buildings for agricultural activity up to 400 squares, 100 and 400. They're not tiny surfaces. Three copies of the geodetic video and the surface statement and nothing else is enough. So, a geodetic and surface statement, a thread of architects. I could count on it now, so here's another one. When it comes to a building that is not more than 400 square meters and a building for agricultural activity that is not more than a thousand squares large object, three copies of geodetic video and three copies of the resulting state. It's really not much, it's really not complicated, and I think any investor, an illegal builder, can meet these requirements. As for how to encourage them, look, so the local self-government unit can always give up the municipal contribution, and as far as these detention fees are concerned, if they want to see Mr. Metlika say he would not gladly give up, but if they want the local self-government units can give up the municipal contribution. As far as the detention fee is concerned, here we have now reduced them, I would say, at the expense of the Republic of Croatia's budget, and transferred to the units of local and regional self-government. Well not only that, here someone has asked a question here, or a proposal to use it to improve the building recording system, etc. So the entire income from the fee is legally accurate and it must be used precisely for that purpose. We have increased this year's budget for new measurements, for making ISP systems, for making e-reals, so we are really returning that money to sorting out the situation in space. Not only that, so this year we have predicted 40 million thanks to you who voted the budget, 40 million kuna on the budget of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning of these 40 million kunas are the means of legalisation that we return to local self-government units through tenders that are currently under way to equalise the municipal standard, raising the quality of life, etc. Because my vision is that these are the funds we have collected from legalization that need to be returned to the units of local self-government as much as possible because there have been problems in the field because of this legalisation, there is a need to build infrastructure then these legalized facilities could begin to be used and for people living there to have kindergartens, walks and public lighting and all together. So we are really trying to make the most of the resources that we have legal obligation to benefit from for these purposes. Here's the number of items, Mrs. Taritash corrected me to have new information, which is exactly what it says legalization is going on because I had the information from this morning, the lady from earlier, and in that period 30 and some of the cases were resolved. It means that legalization is happening and that this law is good, that it needs to be kept alive. The reduction of time here we have heard colleagues Taritash reduce the time limit to, say, six months, from Mr Branko Bačić not to put the deadline at all, obviously it requires a different analysis of a different approach and quite certainly until the second reading we will consider both proposals and in the second reading give perhaps a different solution. Employment in offices, here we will also put in the second reading the possibility that offices can employ for a certain time, and not as it has been 6 plus 6 just thanks to the fact that we have come to this interpretation of the Ministry of Administration which gives consent to such a provision, and this will significantly help offices in cities and counties that have no major procedures and costs of employment. The restriction on the legalisation of corridors, I'm more on Mr. Bačić's side, I think that still with spatial plans, not us but units of local and regional self-government determine significant strategic corridors and we can't just let everything legalized and that for that reason, I don't know the whole county can't build a water line or road tomorrow. Okay, you should see if anything was built, if that corridor was built and if it doesn't bother you then it's a different story, it's already built not planned then that's where it's supposed to be thought. So item 6. We'll also until the second reading we'll rephrase it a little bit. We've got the job done. AZONIS whether he should have, should not have, I am also at the point of view as Mr Branko says, I think it would have been better in the beginning to strengthen the outposts on the ground, to spend the money on field facilities, to hire them for their technical equipment, and I think that would have been better done. But the agency is here, the agency has solved how much she has solved, so I'd say live until the process is complete. We can't go back to where we were. Further AZONIZ goes out on the ground, Mr. Branko, as many legalized objects are recorded, we'll collect data about it, but for AZONIZ now I know he's going out in the field, but I do know because I recently had to approve of the purchase of new vehicles, and their vehicles serve on the field to go out in the field so that I believe they're going out on every ground. Mr. Bunjac, there's, as it's being prevented, why are we even legalizing if there's still illegal construction going on? No, illegal construction isn't happening. Of course we have an exception and we get reports on a daily basis, we have eighty inspectors who are in a moment for the entire Republic and they're going out on the ground. I can give you statistics on their dates, their actions. Right now, a public competition is being done to remove parts of Split to Istria, so we are removing what is done unlawfully and my message, illegal construction is evil, so the evil that disrupts the space, which does the greatest damage to the lawless builder, invests money, then has to invest money for it to crash again. We're against it and illegal construction is something we won't tolerate, it's not as big as you're representing right now. However, she needs to be prevented. On that very trail, the ministry has created a video of the harmfulness of illegal construction, so we need education, and we will be going with that education now since 15 March because we are counting on the construction season. In addition to how we're going to prevent illegal construction, exactly what you've pointed out here, so we're going to speed up the construction system, so we're solving the land books and catastra system. You all know that we introduced ZIS all over the Republic of Croatia a month ago and the city of Zagreb entered. I said Friday, there are new features coming from the ZIS. The e-authority, so we've already established a project task to create an e-authority, there's an e-inspection tender going on, I'm sorry, the e-inspection is already working, so it's going to speed up and improve the quality of the inspector's work. The ISPU system when it is completed fully will then issue permits will be faster, and it prevents all of this because it is not an illegal construction just the result of an evil or bear the intention of an investor than once, as we have heard and objective circumstances, the inability to issue a permit which, of course, does not justify. And allow the legalisation of unfinished buildings as said by the president of the HDZ Club, yes, the thing to think about until the second reading of what is here and means to see also with our experts in what way might possibly be allowed and the legislation of unfinished buildings depending on the degree of their completion and degree of their construction. Once again, thank you for your support for accepting here, the vast majority of clubs, have accepted this proposal to amend and supplement the law. By the second reading, we'll have time to answer all of your answers, analyze your comments. And here I am convinced that by the second reading we will prepare the law in such a form that it will almost unanimously be adopted in this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32391	Thank you, Minister, for your word. The replicas were reported by counterpart Ivan Pernar and colleague Branimir Bunjac. I will just remind you, Rules of Procedure, Article 233(4) says this: “The representative who applied for the speech and was not present in the hall when he was called to lose the right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he applied. ” That means the two of you weren't in the hall when I called you for a debate on this agenda point, you're actually losing your right to discuss this point. Therefore, you would not have the right to a replica. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Behind you two, a colleague named Mladen Madyer called in for a replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32392	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't mean to pick up, but considering, it encouraged me, the Honorable Minister when you said that units of local self-government were reducing the municipal contribution or giving up because it was income to local self-government units. Clearly, since I am the head of the municipality of all units and reduced the majority to a large part, which they had to pay for legalization. But at the same time, for the payment of the water contribution, I think you as a resolute minister should have the same effect of reducing the water contribution. Because the water contribution in relation to the municipal contribution is much higher and it is income, it is known whose income it is. So I appeal that units of local self-government, at least my unit of local self-government has given up most of the work, has reduced that minimum part of the municipal contribution but the water contribution has not been reduced. And he thinks he's pretty big for this already, a pretty big amount that sets out for legalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32393	Thank you very much. Do we have an answer? There isn't. Thank you very much. And another replica of my colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32394	Dear Ministers, it has already been said that local self-government has mostly given up a communal contribution to legalisation, especially in this part of continental Croatia and rural areas, given the situation and general preservation, an attempt to preserve life. I will now ask only one question here, clarification please. So this part of the fee for retaining facilities that would now belong to local self-government, can local self-government deny that income? Here, maybe think about it, that'll be a contribution. The local self-government that wants it, of course, will not give up in some parts of Croatia, but I am convinced that many local self-government in continental Croatia will give up. And just one more thing about construction offices, is it possible in law to make a small change that cities can make an agreement with surrounding municipalities gravitating if they want to open their construction office so we don't double things on the ground. So the town of Križevci, for example, can open an office but the gravitating municipalities then have no office, so the county has to have another office, it doesn't make sense. We need an office in town, we want it, but we're not doing a circus on the ground. So is it possible to make that change so that the cities and local self-government that are making offices, means that they can thus open offices without duplicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32395	That was the last replica. Do you have an answer? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32396	Well, that's a matter of the second law, so we can take a look at it and think about it. As for the possibility of units of local self-government giving up that part of the fee, I also cannot answer you now without consulting a little with the law. And as for Croatian water, I support that both Croatia and all those involved in reducing their share to complete this legalisation as quickly as possible and as cheap as possible. And if he doesn't want to cut it down, at least as much as possible, they return it back to the field, where legalization and money came from, and they build facilities, infrastructures, water supplies, flood defenses and so forth. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32397	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32398	The following is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Irregular Buildings, First Reading, P.Z. number 84. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, 2. Any comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.’. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 117 for, 6 abstentions and no votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32399	And we move on to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 85. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by three committees. And if no one in front of the board is reporting to the rapporteur, I would ask Mr. Minister Lovre Kusčević to give an opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32400	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of the Assembly and MPs, Madam Secretary of State. Here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning. Here, the legislator, so the government of the Republic of Croatia believes that with this law, we will make a series of improvements and do so in the following ways. This proposal is in line with the Law on Spatial Arrangement with Directive 2014/89 of the EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 establishing a framework for the spatial planning of the marine area. Thanks to this proposal of the law, spatial planning in a protected eco-fishing belt, etc. is possible. ZERP and the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Croatia. Legal frameworks for the use of the ZERP and the epicontinental band shall be established in accordance with the relevant provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The interaction between land and sea, and cross-border cooperation in sea planning, is stressed, is supported and facilitated by the implementation of spatial planning of the marine area. These amendments also improve the effectiveness of law enforcement in the following ways. More specifically, certain concepts used in the law, such as the construction gross area, the procedure in the area not considered to be a building, basic infrastructure and urban planning are redefined. A circle of buildings whose construction can be planned outside the construction area, a recycling yard for construction waste within the exploitation fields, for example. The decision to draw up a spatial plan in the event of a new decision to draw up a spatial plan shall be deleted. The issue of planning conditions in the protected coastal area is more clearly regulated, the protection of the area is improved and the ministry's agreement on the adoption of a general urban plan in the area is introduced. An explanation of the spatial plan as its component shall be introduced. It separates the responsibility of an authorised architect from the responsibility of an authorised geodesy engineer for the projects they make. It shall be possible to establish specific conditions before the design of an idea project, and a clear provision shall be made for jurisdiction in the event of refusal of requests for specific conditions. It shall be possible to issue a local authorisation in those cases where that obligation is not prescribed by law, but if the party considers that it needs that local authorisation. The obligation to issue an allocation permit for the hydrocarbon or geothermal water exploitation field for energy purposes shall be deleted and a location permit shall be issued for mining facilities and plants for the exploitation of hydrocarbons or geothermal water. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is possible to carry out monitoring the implementation of the Law on Spatial Planning of Local, Regional Self-Government Units instead of just some of their bodies. It reduces the number of cases where the owner can transfer the unbuilt building land planned by urban planning to the ownership of the local self-government unit, in order to extend the time limit within which the local self-government unit is obliged to pay the land transfer fee, and a number of nomotechnical and professional changes that will in any case improve the implementation of this law. We stand at your disposal for further explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32401	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We have one replica on your exhibit, MP Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32402	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. It is through this law that it is easier to adopt and facilitate investments through the management of space and change units of local and regional self-government. I guess that's what it's meant to be, and I believe it is. That's what you said in your presentation, so this is one specific question. With President Colinda's activity, we had a recent meeting in Slavonski Brod regarding the gasification of the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship. There is a county spatial corridor for finished derivatives, and this is about gas that should lead to the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship to prevent further air pollution and poisoning of the town of Slavonski Brod. So here's my question, and with this law, how to help units of local and regional self-government to change spatial plans faster because we know how much it is, at least a year would take the procedure for changing the county's spatial plan, so the municipalities of the city. Would it be possible through regulation through a strategic project and thus to enable this investment to revive and this activity to finally citizens of the city of Slavonski Brod inhale clean air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32403	Okay. Here's the minister says you'll get an answer later. We're going to a debate on behalf of the counseling club. On behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists of counterparts Tomislav Panenić. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. And on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's representative, Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32404	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning. We have already had in our first reading the Amendment and the addition of the Law on Spatial Planning, but he did not end up in that former Assembly meeting his way, so now we have again received a proposal. However, this proposal is complemented by some things. That's when we talked, discussed, and I'm going to let myself stress some more of the things that are in this proposal. We redefine the building gross surface of the building. Now, the building gross surface of the building, there was no minister who didn't define it. In doing so, I must say that the ministry and the people who work in the ministry are always the same and every minister who comes has a need to change that because someone convinces him it's one way or another. Today when someone asks me and somehow I think I know a lot about it and I know a lot about it. I even know those laws and regulations that were both from the former state and I don't know what not. And when he asks me how the building's gross building surface counts, I don't know it anymore. And I admit that I don't know, and once we turn the balconies on, the second time we turn them off, once we turn on the logs, the second time we turn off the logs. Once we count the balconies and logs in full surface, the second time we're counting with a coefficient of log and terrace 0.25 which is usually, we've talked a lot about the rules of the profession. So when we talk about the rules of the profession then the balcony goes to 0.75, the logs that are, the balcony goes to 0.25, logs that are 0.75, something 0.5, the terrace depending on how covered it is. And there are the rules of the profession that they say, and now we've decided to redefine it, and we've decided to change the rulebook again, so I'm going to find it interesting to see how it counts more because this would make it look like we have, that logs and balconies with the whole surface, or they're not, or so there's definitely going to be dilemmas in place. Then we decided to introduce what can be built outside construction areas, a recycling yard for construction waste within certain fields of exploitation. Now, I think we're absolutely ready to maybe tie it to the field of exploitation, but to keep the recycling yards for construction waste out of the building area, not just the fields of exploitation, but in general. I think we came ready for this because it shows us some needs, and apparently it was some kind of request was the reason for the exploitation field couldn't have been that, but somehow it seems to me that the time had come to think about it. Since the law is through two readings then it's good to somehow try to talk a little bit and think about what it is. In the part in which compliance with the EU directive, the EU directive speaks of the use of the sea, and you and I know well that this directive, regardless of what needs to be applied, has been excluded, has been excluded due to some characteristics and the rest, and is applied to the Mediterranean countries, but I think it applies well. In 2004, we adopted a regulation on the use of the coastal area, and then we incorporated it into an amendment to the Law on spatial planning and we are consistently talking about it. Sometimes we're a little less restrictive, another time we're a little bit more. I kind of think that some improvements should be considered along the way, let's say in areas that are along the coastal line that have been devastated where the exploitation may have been an exception to Article 8. The Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean can also define that there may be some kind of hotel or something, but maybe it's too early, and maybe the theme is that it's all defined together and that there's something together and we do it on the subject. We're getting to the newspaper section, and the paper is about spatial plans. So as in some other situations we've had a period like this, and the second period we're like this, it's now entered here that it's an integral part of a spatial plan and an explanation. When any spatial plan is adopted then and in the public debate are maps, people watch maps, there is an explanation with the spatial plan, but as a sublegal act or as a document of spatial arrangement, or a spatial plan to be applied, you always see implementing provisions and charts. The explanation has now re-entered that it is an integral part of the spatial plan, which will collect spatial planning documentation, but which will also introduce another problem. The problem is that when you have a second degree and you have a complaint, and if you happen to explain the spatial plan, something more detailed is explained, and always in the explanation is more detailed than the implementing provisions, then you are at risk of calling on it and then in the second degree is the practice of taking into account only the implementing provision that it writes, but the Administrative Court has an unequal practice and the Administrative Court when it assesses then looks at the rationale of the spatial plan. As a result, in a law that had come to the hope of 1.1.2014, the argument was no longer an integral part of the plan. It is, of course, in terms of preparation in terms of everything that is the tradition of spatial planning, being discussed, but it is not an integral part. When it becomes an integral part, then in the second degree, the elements of the reasoning must be read, and I'm afraid we'll go back to the old and some of the problems that we have. Similarly, in a law that changes therefore in the basic text, it is said that there can be one decision to amend and supplement the spatial plan. It can be complemented along the way. Why was that? Because in practice there were 7, 8 decisions to make changes and add-on to the spatial plan, they mainly referred to changes and additions to the spatial plan, and then no one knew the decision to amend and supplement the spatial plan, in which direction it was going. I had the opportunity to see six decisions to amend the supplement, it was about the spatial plan and about the City of Pula GUP. We had one serious meeting that lasted an hour, two where we drew to realize at all which decision this part of the plan was going by, the decision that the next part of the plan was going on, so that the return could be a few decisions about changing and supplementing the plan at the same time on the table. I'm afraid it's like that juggler that has a couple of balls and juggles, someone's doing it successfully, and someone's falling apart, but if you think it's gonna make things easier to think about, you see and see what it's going to be and what it's going to bring in that part. We also have this topic of strategic environmental impact assessment. Anyone who talks about the environment and the environment or whatever we call it, then we're a little careful here. When we talk about environmental impact assessments, we are also a little cautious here, but here it opens up that when it comes to changing and supplementing the spatial plan, and in parallel with this strategic environmental impact assessment in the public debate it is 30 days. I say every time I sit there a little bit with the Ministry of Environment and Energy, I almost said the old title, for the simple reason I've been doing this job for a really long time, and among other things, I've been able to get some degree to conduct a strategic impact assessment on the environment when it was just a few people who could have done it, otherwise maybe we're already late, we're already sleepy, my kids always say that I'm who, no matter what I do, is important to get a degree, so no matter what, then maybe this is a chance to even say it. Strategic environmental impact assessments have come about with spatial plans. They came from the Netherlands. The Netherlands was the first to do it. Why? The Netherlands has polluted soil and then through strategic environmental impact assessments, depending on soil pollution, they were able to plan certain things and the strategic impact assessment on the environment applied to the adoption of a new spatial plan. What am I actually talking about? It can happen that a small municipality, there's a lot of commissioners, has to work, say, a new bypass, roads, that's my simplest example. And for this road to be concluded in the screening process that a strategic environmental impact assessment is needed. The amendments and additions to the plan will refer to maps where the road will be drawn and to three implementing provisions and will be held for 30 days in the public debate. Try again with the Ministry of Environmental Protection a little bit and see, not all strategic environmental impact assessments are the same. If it's a new document of spatial order, I'm the first one to be really strategic, to be in public debate for 30 days. When making a state spatial plan, let it be as long as it takes because these strategic assessments will say that in the Adriatic Sea pool there can be so many ports of nautical tourism, that the Adriatic Sea pool can be used anyway, that Slavonia is so. But what it means is a strategic environmental impact assessment for a procedure that is really very, is the question of what it is and then we're in a public debate for 30 days, and then you get that, 30 days and then you process the remarks, and everything else comes up with a change of plan that should be almost like this, we get to a lot of days to work. Now, we're coming to the topic of the location permit, I'm going to speed up a little bit to go through the things that I wanted to say and then the subject of why the location permit is being issued. And in this assembly, no matter what challenge the exploitation of mineral raw materials was, and the exploitation of hydrocarbons has caused a lot of heated debate. And now we say that Article 125, there when it's related to local permits and there's one thing we have to be issued for, so we're that carbon field, so we're geothermal waters, and then we've got just as much added stuff, which is building on the land, that's the building for which the investor hasn't solved the property-legal relations, it's added, so the investor can do what he wants and if he asks for a local permit to do what a colleague asked for and in law when we did it basicly, so I was a little against it. But here we now have the exploitation of hydrocarbons and we have both geothermal water and we have clearly defined exploitation fields for energy purposes, or for what else I think is good, and it's not going to introduce any additional confusion and additional elements. They are equally defined for what a local permit is issued without the need for a building permit, they are introduced in the law of two regulations that say it will be within 30 days of the date of adoption of this law, so it will be interesting to see if it will indeed be so. I support the part where you say there will be sanctions against the head of the governing body if it does not stick. That's what we've introduced to the paper that the Minister of Resolute can do if someone isn't doing their job to intervene, so there's a sanction against the leaders. I must admit that I would be very pleased to have had the opportunity to discuss the strategy of spatial development of the Republic of Croatia in this assembly of Parliament. That strategy has one unfortunate path. I tried to discuss the strategy at the final session of the Parliament before the disbanding there in 2015 and unfortunately did not enter the agenda. As far as I know, Mr. Kuštević is in that former meeting, the government's strategy has passed, and yet she has failed to attend a session of the Parliament because we have just disbanded. So it would be good to update it, bring a strategy and start working on a state spatial plan because we all refer to the state space plan. I said it the last time, and now I'm gonna do it again. The state spatial plan you said would be by the end of 2019. We are now in 2017, so that deadline is already near. I last said it seemed a little unambitious. However, since we are already in 2017, if we were in the local elections so Parliament in one part will not be, it would certainly be good if at least the Spatial Development Strategy was updated by summer to the Parliament so that you have the basis and that a state spatial plan can be worked which will also require strategic environmental impact assessments and public debates and some broader public debates. And in the same way when it comes to the ZERP or the epicontinental belt, 2021 is a perfectly acceptable year for the reason it's a newspaper, it's also a newspaper in some other countries. Croatia is one of the few countries that has planned and used the sea and seas so that this spatial plan will not be difficult to make and see. And of course I commend that we have this law in two readings. Those dilemmas I had made clear and think about not slowing down the procedure and the HNS Club, HSU will support as last time supported in the first reading of this law and this time do so and I hope that we will not have those infamous events that were six months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32405	Thank you. Next club's up. And we have two replicas, I'm sorry. First replica Tomislav Klaric:
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32406	Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, you mentioned the obligation to make strategic environmental impact assessments. I have no doubt that this provision has been adopted with a good intention in order to make strategic environmental impact assessments but to predetermine the obligations that will be there. However, there was a problem when we realized on the ground. So the units of local self-government that had to work on spatial plans under that provision, urban plans should have asked for opinions from the ministry and from the county offices for spatial planning. It has often happened, especially down at our home in the Croatian coast, in the Primorje-Gorski County, that the ministry said in its statement that it should not and that the county wrote that it should. And then on the question of what to do, how to ask the question, whether to go into the making that costs and requires for a while we are told that we are making the decision as the leaders of the local self-government units whether we will or will not. I don't think that sort of thing was the intensity of whoever did it and that some things in that part should be cleared up, they definitely know why it's going to work, why it's not going to work. When we talk about the urban planning of some business zone, we, neither you nor anyone in advance can know what kind of activity will come into that business zone on a particular work salary planned by that urban plan. The investor's showing up. Now, the very obligation of the investor to come, whether it will be a concrete, asphalt base, whether it will be someone who is dealing with a waste of such or such a sea, and do some environmental impact assessment for himself before it goes into any realisation of its project. So there were many things unsaid and it was particularly confusing where the ministry and the county departments, the offices gave completely diametrically opposed opinions. So these don't need and these don't need.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32407	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32408	Exactly. It's no accident that every time I talk about a strategic environmental impact assessment. A strategic environmental impact assessment unlike this normal environmental impact assessment is done from a planer's aspect, so it should planerically examine whether some space is suffering that purpose, does not tolerate that purpose, and we have had very few companies that could do it at all, and then, of course, it was burdened by local self-government units which, when they were ordering, they were ordering or the investor ordering their normal environmental impact assessment which will tell him you can have a chimney 26 meters high, you can have lead and what, or such or such technology and we are a strategic environmental impact assessment as we normally have a tendency to be larger, very big, that bigger... or a Catholic, however we want to turn into something we shouldn't have turned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we've attached this to the changes and additions of the spatial plan, so when we say that the changes and additions of the spatial plan must be done by a strategic environmental impact assessment of the public debate for 30 days. So, the strategic impact assessment on the environment is exactly what it's saying, it's strategically considering whether that space suffers that purpose, does not suffer that purpose or what conditions, because beyond that procedure in the space before issuing the location permit and building permits will once again pass the environmental impact assessment. I think it's mature for the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning to sit down with the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection and consider it once more because it has exactly what you said. The ministry says you don't need a strategic assessment, the county office to sort of make you know I'm not from here says you should and then says decide you. And a lot of local self-government leaders prefer to do a strategic environmental impact assessment rather than create a problem for someone to complain to, sue and everything else. Therefore, I think it is mature at the level of the spatial plan to talk to the Ministry of Environment and Energy and address the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32409	Thank you. The next replica is representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32410	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, I listened carefully and did not understand what you meant when you mentioned the location permit for the hydrocarbon field and geothermal water exploitation. According to this solution, there is no need to issue, to issue a location permit for the exploitation field and research and exploitation of geothermal waters. However, when a location permit for a mining plant is issued, it will then need to issue a location permit, which means that the local self-government unit should be drawn up in a spatial plan. I'm not sure, and I'll do it later in my presentation on behalf of the club that it's a good solution for us to leave the ministry, our home ministry leaves that job under the Coals Act, that the Ministry of Energy, in the process of issuing a concession for research, and then possibly exploitation of hydrocarbons, collects all those consents that this ministry collects when it comes to the location permit. I don't think we've got anything to do with this because we need to define the exploitation field in a spatial plan anyway to issue a location permit when the time of exploration and exploitation comes because we can't set up a mining facility if there's no location permit, so I'd like to ask, and I'll say later on, to consider the opportunite or how much opportunistic it is to leave the issue of such documents and to define the exploitation field to the Ministry of Economy and Energy which is in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32411	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32412	Thank you very much. It was not by chance that I left it unsaid because I expected you to give the replica, and I was wondering what you would say in that replica by the basis of all the stories that were related to the exploitation of hydrocarbons, the location permits and the rest. I'm absolutely the same belief and you're still doubting it, but I'm one of the other beliefs because I don't think it's to let one of the other ministries decide about the procedures in space. I think the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning is what needs to be decided on procedures in space if it should and should be given if it decides that maybe the whole field of research doesn't need a location but I think it's very easy to betray, and then it's being published with a very foundation, and that's exactly what I'm talking about. This entire field is a strategic environmental impact assessment and a single well is an individual environmental impact assessment. I'm not prone to it, and I don't think it's good when you give something in someone else's backyard that's your resort. The responsibility of the Ministry of Space Planning is to deal with space. Instead of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, I'm just saying that part, we should deal with the Ministry of Energy or Economy, although I think the hydrocarbons stayed at the Ministry of Economy and that the exploitation remained at all in the Ministry of Economy and not in the Ministry of Energy, and there was obviously some confusion, I would agree with you. And it's much more acceptable for me to have everything that's about space being in the ministry spatially, not for another ministry to decide on. It's usually the principled attitude he has. The countries have a different view, they have countries that have interdisciplinary space management, they have countries that have sectoral ones. Our country has always had an interdisciplinary one, and it has always been done in one place that was in charge of spatial planning. This is the first time anyone in the sense of a local permit has gone to another ministry. Building permits based on the Mining Act, yes, but it never went to any other ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32413	Thank you. We're done on replicas. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of SDP representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32414	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and, in the introduction, I can say that I am pleasantly surprised that so far in this which is no longer followed by the dynamics of the merger of the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Construction, the Law and Inspection, but you continue to follow what you have formally and inherited and simply do not waste time on too much formalization. This law has entered into force fundamentally when the Construction Act means 1 January 2014 and the substantial amendments to the laws which are now before us to Directive 2014/89/EU of the European Parliament since September 2014 and to the Council since July 2014. The adoption of this Directive has resulted in an increasingly intense demand for the marine area for various purposes, suitable for the production of renewable sources, research, exploitation of oil and gas, extraction of raw materials, tourism, aquaculture, maritime fishing activities, now not to list. In the legislative proposal, you have adapted it, and in other things in the legislative proposal that you wish to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the same law, I find most of it positive. I would just like to single out and ask, appeal that as soon as possible you bring in the rules for calculating gross surfaces so that it doesn't stay in the air if people are slowly preparing because it's a common mistake. A colleague, Mrak Taritash, said that in the following text, she made an objection to the arguments as an concept that is an integral part of the spatial plan. And I also think that in principle it shouldn't be a separate chapter to not go that part among other things into too wide. It's better to explain when we're making a plan, because so far, spatial plans already have some sort of explanation in many of us. Even the introduction that's on the page or two, so here's my appeal for it not to go the other way. I also ask also to review the topic of strategic environmental impact assessment, not to repeat what was said in the previous debate, and possibly whether the changes are now that, instead of the concept of the document of spatial arrangement, write the concept of a spatial plan or that something different is listed, whether it is necessary. And here's the question, specifically, that I don't owe, specifically in Article 3 of subparagraph 22, which... under the 23rd and the merger of the basic infrastructure no longer writes the low-voltage power grid. Is it a mistake or something thrown out, please just here's the answer to that question? Only construction remains for the disposal of wastewater and transport surfaces in the sense of connecting particles. Since the essence of the law is the same for all the reasons that I have stated so far, the SDP club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32415	Thank you. I haven't seen a single replica. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32416	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning, as the government referred it to first reading. We'll try to make a few suggestions that until the second reading, the government and the ministry are on board our proposals. So the second time in a year we're discussing a similar law in the first reading. The first time would be in April 2016, we are now back on something amended by the text of the law with a similar proposal, so I would partially repeat what I said then, and in part I was showing myself to new circumstances. First of all, I would say that this approach to the building gross surface of the building would be a good idea to settle the law immediately, so in the law of the wording in Article 3. I think point 3 defines what is the building gross surface, that anyone who reads this law knows, and not to say that the building gross surface of the building is defined by this law and the regulation that will come out of it, because the question is whether when the law is passed until this regulation is passed knows exactly what the building gross surface is, so it would be good to say the building gross surface because as you wrote here is partly bounded by the external lines of the building, etc. So I propose that the law defines the concept of building gross surface, it is very important for all designers, for issuing permits, etc., etc. What I said last time, and these are now cited again, we, as the Minister said, are implementing a directive of the European Council and Parliament on the marine environment with this law. I must say that this bill provides for two new state-level spatial plans to be introduced in addition to all possible documents of the state-level spatial arrangement, which is the state plan of the protected ecological-fishing zone and the state plan of the epicontinental belt. The Republic of Croatia has defined for 20 years since the 1997 Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, both the land and the territorial sea, as well as today's ZERP which did not exist at the time. Therefore, ZERP was adopted in 2003, so its application was delayed, etc., but in the territory of the Republic of Croatia before it was established and declared ZERP there was an open sea which was from the outer border of the territorial sea to the border of the epicontinental belt signed by Croatia and the then SFRY with the Italian Republic in 1968. So, in the tradition of spatial arrangement in the Republic of Croatia, one document was a strategy from 1997 of spatial arrangement, it was a programme of spatial arrangement from 1999, with one document edited and covered the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, both land and sea, including the territorial sea, including today's ZERP, including the epicontinental belt. If that were not the case, Croatia would not be able to exploit the gas in the northern Adriatic where our platforms Ivica, Marica, do not know what Ana Maria is called on today's ZERP or in an epicontinental belt outside the territorial sea. Now, what do I think the government should do until the next reading? So any unit of local self-government on the coast has one unique spatial plan. The plan is arranged by its land section and 300 metres from the coast towards the high seas. And there isn't that unit of local self-government two plans, one for land and one for sea. The County has a spatial arrangement plan that regulates the entire area of its county and the area that belongs to it in the entire territorial sea. It's arranged by the county. There's a plan again. So, with one plan, he arranges both land and sea. With this bill of law, we prescribe that the state has three plans of state, one for the continent, land and territorial sea. So, with one plan, this state spatial development plan regulates the territory of the Republic of Croatia and its territorial sea to the external border of the territorial sea, with one plan. The second plan that we are about to set up with this law would be an epicontinental belt plan that would only edit the underground beneath the sea that extends from the outer border of the territorial sea to the border with the Italian Republic, that would be the second plan. And the third plan would edit the water column above that epicontinental belt to the surface, which in nature represents the Croatian ZERP. I don't know what reasons the government had to decide on three plans when in the tradition of spatial planning there was always one plan that was called the spatial arrangement programme of the Republic of Croatia, which is also said today when we are, we have this attitude in both the spatial plans of the county and the spatial plans of the cities and the municipalities that are by the sea, which is better by one document to cover the entire space, that in one place we have a strategic assessment we are doing strategically for the whole area, and then we will go to a situation where we are doing or a state plan that should be completed by 31 December 2019, which is the land and part of the sea, and not a small 12 miles from the coast that makes the territorial sea, and then a few days after that we will go to do a new strategic assessment that we will edit all of the rest of the sea, which is the ZERP and the underground epicontinential explanation again. It is not only a matter of costs, although it is not small but it is not a matter of how much a tradition is established, how much is the fact that cities, municipalities and counties do, and how much is the fact that in one place it is better to do the entire space of the Republic of Croatia as it is where we have total sovereignty such as land and territorial seas and where we have sovereign rights such as ZERP. I therefore believe that it would be for me here I must say a better solution, I think so, I also support the government's position to resolve and regulate the marine environment and in part of the ZERP and in part of the epicontinental belt so that we can continue to draw gas from the Adriatic underworld, we agree but I think we should have further arguments as to why we should work on three plans instead of one, and that this deadline that was planned by the end of 2021 when these two other spatial development plans may then be shortened and extend this one, which is scheduled for 2019 and that by the end of 2020, Croatia has one complete document of spatial arrangement that will come out of this strategy, which will shortly be mentioned by Mrs Anka Mrak Taritaš, so it would be good for Mr Minister to come to the Assembly of the spatial arrangements of the Republic of Croatia as the most important document, which will then arise and resolve the issue of action in the ZERP and the full space of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia. The second thing I wanted was to make a special point about the field of exploitation. As you know, I was in front of the Croatian Democratic Community Club author of the Interpellation on the work of the Government of Zoran Milanovic when it started to explore and exploit hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. Why? Because I claimed that this procedure was conducted illegally because I had claimed that it was non-transparent. I am sorry that there is no Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, that her opinions on this have been ignored by the Ministry of Economy, that the Ministry of Economy has opened a tender for research, exploitation without a strategic environmental impact assessment, which, due to the intransparency of this process, is the government, the then government did well and did because it gave up. Because all of this has been strained illegally even when it comes to researching the Adriatics entrusted to Spectrum. I would therefore like to say also on this trail today that there is a ministry in the government that regulates the issue of space, which is the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. And everything that defines dealing with highly sensitive activities such as the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons must remain in my possession very much under the hands of the ministry that is responsible, which means that the exploitation fields are defined by a location permit. Because according to this proposal that is now here, we will remove the need to determine the location permit but we will not get anything because the other Ministry of Economy through the concession process to get a concessionary who will investigate whether there is a Croatia on land or at sea, will investigate whether there is gas or oil, and for that it will collect almost identical documents collected by the Minister of Spatial Planning for Local License. If we have avoided that, that collection being completed by the exiting of the location permit, these documents will be collected in the concession process again we return to the same thing, which is that this exploitation field for which you will not issue the location permit must be included in the relevant plan of a specific unit of local self-government. You're going to have to have that exploitation field in that spatial plan of yours. And all that you had to go through to get a location permit and give the ministry or the agency to call the competition, you'll have to repeat it, not you, but the local and regional self-government units to better put it into your own spatial plan. We didn't get anything, we didn't get anything, as much as someone's going to try to cut the procedure short, because they won't, because they're going to have to record an exploitation field in the spatial plan. And then you'll come back again, you'll come back to the Minister of Spatial Planning to issue a location permit to set up a mining facility for the platform or any other facility that will allow the drilling of any land, any sea. So I'm not sure that we're going to get a lot by letting one of the other ministries do the concession process without a local permit when he's going to have to go about the process that the ministry is going through, which is now no longer issuing a local permit, so the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction in the process of allowing the start of drilling works to have to issue a location permit for that well, that mining facility. So here I am asking you to see until the next reading on this once again both at both the level and the government and in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy whether this is a good solution. I think the only Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction is ready, trained, has enough experience to care for the very sensitive process, the technologically demanding process in the world, it's research, hydrocarbon exploitation, especially in large depths when it comes to the conservation of the marine environment. And primarily this law, along with all the other attributes that this law has and which I commend and which are excellent, are primarily this law we adopt for reasons to allow conservation, planning and regulation of the marine environment. So when that's the case, we know that there's any mistake in that I've said the most demanding technological procedure in the world, which is drilling at 500, 600, 700, 800, 2 kilometers of depth, and I wouldn't let it out of the hands of that ministry that is thus government and ultimately qualified. Here in this sense we support the law. I hope that by the second reading the government will be made clear about these reasons why we go in three plans, not in one, why the location permit or not. However, regardless of whether there were three plans or one of us we would support, it is important to bring the plan forward. But from the point of view, it seems justified to me that the opportunity would be one plan for the entire Republic of Croatia better than three plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32417	Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure. Representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32418	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, I absolutely agree with all of these suggestions mainly this gross surface of the building, because you have a really different interpretation from the officers inside the office who issue legatees to the designers. So we should really define it more precisely the gross surface area... on a building particle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I'm still using is the opportunity and this replica to make one additional suggestion, which is the ratio of the space plans of the greater order to the spatial plans of the lower order. Very often in practice you have a situation that the spatial plans of the higher order in this case now county if God gives in two, three years and state spatial plans when they come, come into force and adopt that there are certain corridors, certain buildings in the county spatial order that have already been in place for 30, 40 years. To make the problem bigger, certain infrastructure facilities have already been implemented only at another location, some other relations through other spaces, and they are still detained and holding back spatial plans at local levels. I mean, when the space plans of the larger order come to the ministry's consent, then it really is necessary to analyse whether these infrastructure facilities that are located in the space according to the higher order's spatial plans have not been implemented for 20, 30, 40 years, and it is holding back the development of the space of a local community that must respect the spatial plans of the greater order. This will be an additional problem if we do not further define it within this law until the second reading when state spatial plans come to us because it will indeed be very difficult to coordinate it all together if we have not defined it now in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32419	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32420	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague Blaženko that it is necessary to update the spatial plans of the higher order, such as the spatial plan or the county spatial plan when it comes to the interest of the units of local self-government, even in the existing law, and I see that many counties are doing this, an analysis of existing economic zones, tourist areas of infrastructure corridors. So, where it has been planned for 20 years, some zone of tourist use that neither has a potential user, nor has an urban planning been adopted, nor has it been directed towards any infrastructure routes or water, or electricity, or roads, the question of whether the area has the need to redeploy the total area of building land in a particular unit of local self-government and to cross over to the other unit of local self-government and which has the possibility of investors, has all opened up a new zone, and can't because of the limitations that put it in a certain way an existing zone that is absolutely non-prespective. In that sense, what you said as well as the corridors of individual roads in the county plan should be updated by a team more if the other road has replaced the importance, the role of that road, but I think that through the changes in spatial plans it is given to coordinate both through the process and the process of changing and supplementing such plans, such corridors must be abolished. And I agree with you, i.e. you have confirmed that it is very important to define by law the building gross surface of the building in order not to place it with other sublegal acts because until they are practically left with one legal vacuum in which we do not know what is one of the most basic concepts in construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32421	Thank you. We're done with the replicas and the debates on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to individual debates. Representative Miro Bulj called, I don't see him in the hall, which means he's losing his right to debate on this subject. The second representative on the list is the representative Grozdana Peric, who is also not present, so she also loses the right to debate on this subject. Mr. Minister, would you like to take your word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32422	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Gross building surface office, let's see if it needs to be more precise, whether it's put into law or put in a rulebook, we'll define that by the second reading. The recycling fields are planned everywhere, not just in the fields of exploitation. Here we go in the field of exploitation because they need to be rehabilitated and it's such a configuration as not to see it from the field, and I note that it's only recycling areas for construction waste, so not this other waste but construction waste, which is natural to grind, to be taken care of along with the stone that's being removed there and with that waste. Several parallel decisions to amend the plan, here we think it's a good thing that our colleague Mrak Taritash thinks, because there's no need for the plan to be burdened with this process to be completed. In fact, we often have changes and additions to the spatial plan that are ongoing and they are ongoing and now it happens that some investors have a need to change something on the other side and it cannot go on to change that plan until this plan has already been launched and done. So, I think it's possible, not me, but the position of the ministry, that it's possible that it's good to do more parallel changes and additions. A little bit of that can create a mess of what Mrs. Taritash said in the field, i.e. but if the people who work the plan are responsible, if those who read these plans are responsible, educational then it doesn't have to be a problem at all, a little more complex but it's not a problem. The strategy of spatial development, yes, she's in the opinion of the ministries we've made her. I think that two other ministries are waiting for an opinion, after which the Government will find itself in the Croatian Parliament very soon, so here I expect one quality, good debate in order for this strategy to really reflect all important economic projects, national goals all of what you know is necessary to install in it. After that, it's an assumption of the development of the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia, so here's the hope that we will. Here are the deadlines we set. We will surely meet them to bring that spatial plan within. The location permit for hydrocarbons and geothermal water, why not. So listen, it was written in a very firm, reasoned position of the Ministry of Economy that we had to respect, otherwise the plan would not have passed the government's procedure, this bill would not have passed the government's procedure. Whether it's good or not, we have unfortunately the fact that the former government has issued dozens of hydrocarbon exploitation fields without going in line with the spatial plans and without establishing the exploitation fields according to the location permits it was then and now it's an obligation under this law. So, indeed, this was not respected for some of the reasons unknown to me, so there could be some interest in these solutions being issued responsibly hard, illegal because clearly in the Law on Construction it says, "Pardon Law on Spatial Planning" written in the Law on Carbon Exploitation and in the Mining Act it says that the exploitation fields are established by the basis of a powerful location permit and, of course, no local authorisation can be issued unless it is in accordance with the spatial plan. A few dozen of these fields I repeat, have been issued contrary to this law in the last few years. Now, what's going to happen in the future here's what we heard the remarks, we're going to go to another reading and we'll see. The low-voltage network, Mr. Babic, yes, we deliberately threw it out of the base infrastructure network because it's not necessary. Look, there are objects where and there are no low voltage grids, where alternative sources of energy, solarium, etc. And it's not necessary to put her in. Therefore, it is necessary that the facility has an unclassified road or some other classy county as already, so that it has access and that it solves the draining of the coastal waters and the low voltage network, electricity and water supply can be solved alternatively, so that was why we threw it out. So why three plans and not one plan? This is where Branko was headed with this we have a deadline for bringing in 2019 of this spatial plan, however if there is a certain interest in some activities in the area of ZERP and the economic belt we have opened the door this way to make a special plan of whether for the submarine as we have said or for the whole water column and surface, special plans. Why not include it with the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia? Because our neighbours will certainly be, they will have certain objections and will strongly object to some of our solutions in this spatial plan and then stop us from adopting a whole spatial plan for the Republic of Croatia, and this way, if we do not arrange that area with this spatial plan of Croatia, they have nothing to object to and we will bring a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia. And if he gets stuck, he'll only get stuck on that spatial plan of the epicontinental and economic belt. Here, it was logical not to endanger the adoption of a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia by the fact that the neighbours object, do not give consent etc. And some of them are much stronger in the European Union than we are. So, in this way we thought to break, we will bring a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia, ok he passes and here we will fight all kinds of problems. Here, thank you again for the constructive debate and we will certainly process all your comments and suggestions until the second reading and give quality answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32423	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Representative Bačić, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32424	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, on the very trail of what you said, which I know, which I did, in my presentation, say that the Ministry of the Economy or the Agency of Hydrocarbons did not respect the position and opinion of your predecessor, Minister Taritash, who said that there was no place for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the territorial sea, and the Agency called it out, as you said yourself, concessions were issued for certain fields that were not envisaged, which gave you more rights, and I am giving you the right to question the location, the question of the arrangement of space is exclusively your job and the work of our ministry. As far as relations with the Italian Republic as our sea neighbour, Montenegro or Slovenia are concerned, we will have a big test in a few months when you arrive or shortly before summer, I hope when you arrive with a spatial planning strategy. The spatial planning strategy must also cover both the ZERP and the epicontinental belt and all together, and we will probably also see through the discussion of the strategy how and how our neighbours behave when we plan certain procedures in the ZERP space and in the area of the epicontinental belt where Croatia has sovereign rights and not sovereignty.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32425	Thank you very much. Do you have a minister's answer? There isn't. Let's do another replica of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32426	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you have now said several times here as well as your colleague Bacic in his debate now and in this replica to you that the former government has established the location of the wells, meaning by the Ministry of Economy, by the agency, etc. and they're basically through this debate all the time. You've done it three, four times. I wonder if you as a minister who has knowledge and colleague Bacic who agrees with you and who has now said again that he agrees with you to press charges against someone who has violated the laws of this country because as far as I know, knowing that someone is breaking the laws and is committing crimes if he does not report it, he is committing a criminal offence. And now I'm only interested in how many of you, colleague Bacic, can't answer me, maybe he answers me at some other time, filed criminal charges against the people of the former government or against the former government who violated the laws of the Republic of Croatia, if you didn't, and if you don't submit in the next period, then I'm going to think that you're taking it a little lightly with those terminologys that someone broke the laws and I don't think it's politically correct and that you're not telling the truth. That's it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32427	Replica was at the minister's office so the minister was the only one who could answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32428	Thank you very much. No, I did not file a criminal report, but my predecessor, while she was Minister Anka Mrak-Taritash, filed a report to the DORH for the fact that the Ministry of Economy is issuing solutions to the exploitation fields contrary to the applicable legislation. So Mrs. Mrak-Taritash filed such a report, I'm aware of it, we have the Ministry and there's no need to repeat the same application, and here I expect the competent authorities to do their job in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32429	Thank you. I think you've got all the answers around these few laws today. We're finishing work today. I'm closing the debate. We traditionally start tomorrow with club breaks, and after that, we discuss the bill on amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 18.05 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-01-0.u32430	The following is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, First Reading, P.Z.E. Number 85. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Spatial Regulation Act, 2. Any comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.’. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 113 for, 9 abstentions and no votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we begin the plenary session. I think the first representative of Peja Grbin came forward. Here you go.
