ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38497	Good morning, I warmly welcome you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, especially I welcome the President of the Government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-President, Vice-President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? As there are no objections, I would like to conclude that we have adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the session agenda. In addition to the call for the session, you also received a draft agenda, and you have been given a final draft agenda at the session. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. The final draft agenda includes 5 new points under regular numbers 35, 80, 118, 119 and 122. That's 35. Final proposal of the Labour Search Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 99, 80.a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the chair and the work of the members of the National Council of the Education and Education Agency and (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing the president and part of the members of the National Council of the Education and Education Agency, 118. Report on the effectiveness of the JASPERS programme initiative's impact on the project proposals submitted by the Republic of Croatia for co-financing from EU funds, 119. Report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and 122. Report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest for 2016. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. Please repeat. Thank you. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that the urgent procedure lays down laws that comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is point 4 of the final draft agenda of the Marine Fisheries Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 142. In accordance with Article 206(1), I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure will be decided on a proposal for a law for which the Proposer proposes to be adopted under an urgent procedure, that is, point 3 of the final draft agenda, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements and the Law on maternity and parent support with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 145. Any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? If there are no objections, I would like to conclude that the proposal for an emergency procedure has been adopted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Do any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the inclusion of points 35, 80, 118, 119 and 122 of the final draft agenda that did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation to the 4th session? I also find that these points are included in the agenda of the fourth session. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. In accordance with Article 2005, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda in an appropriate manner. I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it in full, let me announce that the agenda is as I suggested in the final draft agenda. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin to ask the Government a question, I would once again ask the presidents of the working bodies to convene the working bodies' meetings so that they can conduct discussions on legislative proposals in accordance with the order set out in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38505	Your Honor, Mr. President. The club of independent MPs and HSU openly opposes the proposal to include Bill 162 under the third point in the emergency procedure. It is obvious that if the ruling majority shows a reserve or a negative attitude towards the report, this amendment relating to the pensionisation of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman for children is a political repression. It came out in the last two days to show that you're threatening a child counsel to be removed because of alleged political membership, that's something that's absolutely unacceptable because there's no such provision in a law that regulates any of the attorneys and none of this. In this sense, we pray that you do not chase or rush or show everyone this primitive political goal. Let the reports be discussed if you have arguments against him, but there is no need for an emergency procedure to be introduced by an institute that is political rape.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38506	Thank you. We're not threatening anyone, you've come directly to someone's threat, so we're not threatening anyone, but we're going to vote in accordance with the procedures now on urgency and I'm voting who's in favour of urgency? You answered the same thing, I'm sorry. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38507	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The SDP representative club also opposes the urgent procedure of the Proposal of the Law on Advocates for Children with the Final Proposal of the Law. We also believe that through this urgency the procedure is intended to break through, or open, a space for the emergency shift of the Ombudsman for children through the non-acceptation of her report. We think it's something you shouldn't do especially in this way I'll dare say a brutal way to deal with unsuitable lawyers in a way that we can push into an emergency procedure of amending the law that will open the space to do it very elegantly, and everything in accordance with the law, without really looking at the results of someone's work and concrete facts presented in certain reports, so I think you should give up the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38508	Okay. Here you go, fellow Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38509	I would only remind you of the scale of what is now proposed with an emergency procedure. In fact, something that was voted on in 2003 has now been discovered that it must be decided again, and the decision puts the item again in the new law, the prosecutor's term of office for children is suspended. The termination of the term of office of any lawyer in our case are all the lawyers is in any case a strange act because the lawyer is autonomous and independent by definition and should always do his or her term and regardless of the governments that are changing. That's why I at the National Minorities Club will vote on this urgent procedure proposal on the basis of conscience and upon request, and I will be restrained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38510	Okay. So now we're gonna vote on whether or not we're in. Go ahead and tell your colleagues, "Strenja-Linić."
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38511	In the name of the Independent Lists Club, we also ask that such a serious subject be approached with the law after a report by the Ombudsman for the children for the past year, after we discuss the fact that this law goes into the ordinary procedure to see if there are any possibilities and elements there, because it will be one of the few that will then be able to be replaced after the report has not been adopted, unlike some others whose reports have been very bad, so we haven't taken their heads off for that reason, and we should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38512	So I'm voting on who's in favour of an emergency procedure in the case of this bill? Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes have confirmed that this law goes into emergency procedure first and second reading. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 4th session? If not, this means that points 7 to 16 of the proposed supplement are also included in the agenda. We have now established the agenda, so the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38513	Good day to all, first of all, before we continue working with the point I announced last night, and this is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, I would like to inform you that some of the points planned for today and this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local, or regional (regional) self-government with the Final Proposal of the Law, which is in an emergency procedure, also the Annual Report of State Support for 2014 and the end of the Annual State Support Report for 2015 do not have the conditions for discussion, so we will not discuss them today. For the trip, isn't it, secretary? ... Okay, one point hasn't been discussed by the board and another point, for another point, we don't have a proposing who's on his way to Dubrovnik. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Instead, of course, we'll discuss the points that we skipped yesterday, and if they're ready, that is, if they're past the board. And also the point of the proposal for a regional development strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period until the end of 2020. She's ready? She's ready. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Before we go any further, a colleague of Hajdash Doncic asked for it. My colleague Maras asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38514	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will briefly interrupt the debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Act in order to comply with Article 226(2) of the Implementing Law. Rules of Procedure proposed supplementing the agenda of the 4th session with 3 new points: 1. Proposal for a decision on the election of 3 Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer of the President of the Republic of Croatia. 3. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the HRT Supervisory Board appointed by the Croatian Parliament. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that 77 MPs are in the assembly, so we have a quorum and we can rightly decide. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the agenda of the 4th session? If there are no objections these points are included in the session agenda. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the addition of the agenda has been established and we continue to work on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38539	Here, you had it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38540	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask for a break because of the political situation and in the Assembly on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38541	Okay. Of course I'll grant you a break and colleagues to Maras, he'll repeat everything he said of course, but of course we can't right away, but unlike you, I respect the Rules of Procedure, so I'll see you at 15.22. It's 15.07 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.20 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38543	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of the Ministry, how can I address you without most of the facts is that we are discussing very important laws. We see what state Parliament is in, we don't have a majority. The fact is that it's time for the prime minister to resign, because the fact that he lied on the 41st day that he broke up with the ministers and that we just now have a situation where the law that we needed to present and take seriously about hydrocarbons represents a man who has absolutely no legitimacy whatsoever, a man who has been appointed there in a way by a prime minister who doesn't have a majority. The prime minister promised the people, publicly promised to have a majority and that the majority would be presented the day after the elections. Today there was a farce of prime minister here, a little bit upset, but he was here at the farce and he was throwing dust into our eyes and our fellow MPs and the whole people. The fact that we have four ministries at this point. The Ministry of the Interior, where our witnesses are that we have a crisis in Europe, i.e. instability, we have various terrorist attacks, that we simply don't know who's running our Home Office and who gave most of us to lead and to be represented by the Ministry of the Interior. Prime Minister Plenkovic deceived the entire Croatian people, he manipulated the entire Croatian public, your HDZ colleagues also, he promised the majority. It would also be correct of him to do what Mr. Vrdoljak did, who also swore not to conduct any negotiations with HDZ. But under the table, negotiations are under way, and it's been put into a situation today that we don't have a majority. If at this point or the shortest moment the ministers are not presented here, there's no point in us sitting here anymore. The MOST Club sits here, expects the minister to come with his proposals for the minister, the minister is gone. There's a man here who represents the law, and there's no telling who named him or who gave him the legitimacy. He was named by a man who doesn't, the appointed man is a law named by a man without majority, a prime minister without majority. Because of the people, because of the legitimacy this Parliament has, because of us, because of the spit on the people who gave us the votes, led by Prime Minister Plenkovic, he would have to resign at the same time. For he deceived the people, and assured the people that he had a majority. Where's most of them? So he cheated on you in HDZ, lied to you, so raise your voice. Don't trust the Pharaohs as boredom, don't be air-headed. Well, it can't be done in the state as it pleases. It's past the time of arrest, the location, the transfer when the state was robbed. Prime Minister Plenkovic, on behalf of the people, resign because the people chose us, and this is neither yours nor anyone else's. This is the Dom di we represent all citizens, someone with more votes, someone with less. The president of the 800-seat parliament, someone with 20,000 votes, has made a disgrace to this House and I call on him in front of the Most Club and the citizens of his 11000 voters, to resign and apologize to the people for the situation he has brought the Republic of Croatia into. He made a banana state out of the Republic of Croatia, this and Sanader didn't do it at those times when the air-conditioned listened to him obediently and of course orchestrated by the great leader of Vladimir Shakespeare. E Shex, you're not gonna get away with it. The people see this, the people hear this. It could have happened a few times, and you won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38544	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP club, the honourable representative of Gordan Maras will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38545	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, I primarily address Croatian citizens who are now watching us and who listen to these messages and who are simply irritated by the government's position, a colleague from Mr. Plenkovic's HDZ who simply holds this country as a place to play. It's like the Croatian playroom of the government of Seks and Andrej Plenkovic. This is a shame what's going on. Just look at the number of people reported for discussion. Look, we don't have a minister here for 41 days. It's a shame what's going on! And until Mr. Plenkovic understands that, and until he behaves the way he behaves, he explains with the tall one, saying who's going to go through the election. So let him worry about his own concerns. It is our concern here to protect the integrity of this Parliament, to protect voters who elect us representatives to the Croatian Parliament and not simply agree to this humiliation. We chose the government and Mr. Plenkovic was supposed to be the prime minister, the candidate of the Most and HDZ by my deep conviction to recapture the signatures of the beginning because it was the coalition government. But he doesn't do it, he ignores common sense, he ignores and laughs at Croatian citizens in the face of not only us MPs, it's the least of the problems. The people who are here in Parliament will especially get used to these situations with HDZ. But Mr Plenkovic laughs at the Croatian people in the face and speaks as if it doesn't matter when, within which time, he will propose to the ministers and show that he has the majority. It's unsustainable. I invite all my colleagues in this House to stand up to it. Let him resign, return the term of office to the Croatian Parliament and then the Croatian Parliament will decide when the elections will be. That's the only fair thing. He's been usurping power at the moment. It's our grade, I'm convinced and he doesn't have the right to do it. Croatia stands, we tap in place. It's not possible to run the country like this anymore. We see the situation from Agrokor to INA, until the departure of young people from Croatia, nothing is resolved just because Prime Minister Plenkovic has been holding his post and his post together. He has no majority, he has to resign and let the Parliament decide what this country will do in the future. So this isn't his? My colleagues from HDZ, this isn't from Andrej Plenkovic. Mr. Culey, no, this is from Croatian citizens. ... That's right. [[You can't hear it.]] No, it's not. SDP, not HDZ's, not MOST's, not Plenkovic's, but Croatian citizens'. [[Intruder Reiner: Please don't throw!]] Show respect for Croatian citizens, show respect for Croatian citizens regardless of nationality, to Croatian citizens, Mr Culej. And that's what you have to do to see what they think of us, about you, about each and every one of us. Croatia can no longer allow this. The MPs in this House are not here to spend, raise their hands to someone else's will. Maybe some of them are, I'm sure I'm not. And we at the SDP Representatives' Club will think very well about it during this day and tomorrow whether or not we will participate in the work of the Parliament at all until the political crisis is resolved. There is no right for Vladimir Seks and Andrej Plenkovic to hold Croatia in his hands, he has no right. I know Vlado Shakespeare enjoys this, but he must not make fun of Croatian citizens. And Mr. Plenkovic doesn't have any more authority and I mean like I said, that he usurped power. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38546	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38987	At last session, we made a decision to suspend the term of office of MP Vlaha Orepic and Slaven Dobrovic, so I suggest that MPs make an oath before the start of the 4th session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have established that the oath is given in a way that the President reads the text of the oath, and subsequently calls the representatives. The appointed representative rises and utters his word, I swear. I'll read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work to uphold the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." I'm calling on representative Vlah Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38988	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38989	Now I'd like to ask my colleague, Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38990	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u38991	I thank and congratulate the MPs on their sworn oath and wish them success in carrying out their honorable and responsible representation duties. If he wants to, if his colleague Kovacic wants to swear again, I don't mind, so here you go, Mr. Kovacic. So, Mr. Kovacic has already sworn earlier on for this reason that we should not repeat it, so we continue to work, and I am once again congratulating the MPs who have now sworn. [[Applause.]] And now we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Articles 132 to 139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions is distinguished counterpart Vladimir Bilek, who is asking his question to Minister Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39008	I thank the esteemed president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected prime minister, members of the government of the Republic of Croatia. As already said, my question will be to ask the Minister of Transport, Mr. Oleg Butkovic. We all know that for the development of certain parts of our region, above all, Western Slavonia is an exceptional and transport connection. The first step towards this is of course the fast road Zagreb – Bjelovar – Virovitica, which we have already discussed here, was asked a question. But for the development of the town of Daruvar, the Grubišni Polje municipality of Končanica, and other neighbouring municipalities, there is an extremely important connection, i.e. the Betterment of the road Grubisno Polje – Končanica – Daruvar which has been preparing for a long time. So my question, in that sense, is exactly what stage is this project and when are the works going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39009	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for your question, Your Honor, Mr. President, That stock for which you asked the question is located, is an integral part of the state road DC5 and that part of Grubisno Polje – Veliki Zdenci and the shares of Veliki Zdenci – Daruvar. For Velika Zdenci – Daruvar, complete project documentation is prepared by Croatian roads that are in the final phase. At this moment, the current state of the state road is being recorded because it is not being implemented in the catastrous and we expect to issue a building permit in this year because it is in the Croatian Roads plan and this four-year-old, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we expect the call for tenders in this year 2017. The length of this stock is 15.2 km, and for this first section of Grubisno Polje – Veliki Zdenci in length of 5 km complete project documentation is currently funded and produced by the town of Grubisno Polje. After the town of Grubisno Polje makes the project documentation he will deliver it to the Croatian roads and in the same way the competition will be opened for those, the rest of the 5 km. So this year, the project documentation will be completed, two building permits will be issued and Croatian roads will then open an invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39010	I thank Minister Butkovic. Do you want to be obvious?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39011	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply. It has been preparing for many years and we know that the problem is certain property-legal affairs, but I am glad to go in that direction and that we can already say, I hope that we will have finished that part of the stock and that part of the road exclusively for the reasons of traffic connection but also for the reasons of security. Because we know that through the municipality of Končanica, we have inadequate footsteps, that children go on foot to school, and it would mean a lot to edit that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39012	Thank you, too. We're moving on to another question. Dear counterpart Zarko Tušek the question points to Minister Krstičic. If the microphone doesn't work, then come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39013	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and to General Damir Krstic. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, aware of complex political relations, the security situation in which Croatia is located, the threat and risk in which we live and act both from the aspect of our region and from the aspect of global security challenges and threats. And before you became a minister, you spoke of the importance of adopting a National Security Strategy. In recent days, you have held a session of the Committee for the Draft National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the National Security System Act. This is the fourth proposal, i.e. the final draft of these documents. Since you have identified the adoption of a strategy and the National Security System Act at the beginning of your mandate as one of your priorities and announced their almost adoption, please, because of the general public, key information on the progress of the whole business that you have included in the public debate, whether you are satisfied with the final version of the documents produced, of course and finally, when the documents can be expected in this House of Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39014	Thank you, Mr. Tušek, for asking the question. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Madam Representatives and MPs of the Croatian Parliament, that on Monday, 5.6 we had the last sixth meeting of the National Security Strategy Committee and the National Security System Act and we ended the process, we made a new document, the National Security Strategy. As we know, the existing National Security Strategy of 2002. Therefore, for 15 years our Croatia has no national security strategy. We have already begun the process with the immediate establishment of the government, the 3.11. and in these 7 months of a huge work. We have completed this document and here is the document in front of me, that document of the National Security Strategy, the National Security System Act is ready, it goes to the government tomorrow and I hope tomorrow at the Government that this document will be adopted. We started with the process on 3.11., right at the beginning we chose one methodology, transparency, inclusiveness, inclusiveness, over 150 people in Croatia participated in the development of the National Security Strategy and through one process, through one inclusiveness, here we came to the position of having this document. We have made very many and round tables, 8 round tables, from defence associations, general choir, civil society association, through media representatives, then also a round table with NATO members, the EU, then a round table with a safety guard and finally a round table with a scientific community. And here again I want to thank all the people who participated in this process, we have received very many positive and proposals, comments, suggestions, so we can say that we now have this strategic document, which will help us and this National Security System Act that will help us out of the position of the state, so that we can deal with all these security situations, threats, risks. We see that we have a lot of these challenges all over Europe, and that's why we need one system, because only through the system can we deal with these challenges. And that's just one start. What's important, the strategy, the new one, what does it bring? Croatia needs a security partnership. From this safety partnership, it is necessary to produce a system of homeland security and it must also rest on respect for human rights, on transparency on solidarity, on tolerance and dialogue. This system of ours must be modern, modern, rational, effective and what is most important to meet both our tradition and our needs. And what is crucial, in this strategy, we have given each new government, so at the beginning of its mandate it must update that strategic document. And another very important thing, that the Croatian Government, once a year, must inform you, the Croatian Parliament, about the implementation of the strategy, and the whole story is that the system of security that we are improving and breaking, must guarantee that our Croatia can react firmly, strongly and clearly to any threat and risk facing Croatian society at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39015	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense. Here you go, Comrade Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39016	I would just like to congratulate Minister Krstičević on his work which he made and thanked for the complex and content answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39017	Thank you very much. Third question, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. The question raises to the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39018	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome all MPs and members of the government who do not have a majority, which is a question of whether the current clock makes any sense at all. So Mr. Plenkovic, Prime Minister, who has no more majority, who has no more 76 hands in this assembly, did you follow the protest of Croatian citizens who gathered in Zagreb more than 20,000 people and another 10,000 people throughout Croatia. A protest that sought better education for better Croatia and a protest with which it was clearly ordered, that the plagiar minister must leave, as well as all the reformers he has gathered around him. Mr Plenkovic, do you realize that Croatia needs curricular reform, not clerical reform? Do you understand that oak in Croatian schools can only serve as parquets and nothing else? Mr Plenkovic, when you will fire the Minister of plagiarism and by what criteria you have had an expert working group and president of the expert working group for curricular reform, and 6 members of the National Council for Education and Education, since most of them come from ultra-preservative clerical associations, which, among other things, support the greeting "For Home Ready" and deny evolution. And the question of all questions, Mr. Plenkovic, how many hands in this assembly do you support your government's work?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39019	I thank you for the question of an esteemed colleague, Mr. Jovanovic. As far as the majority are concerned, the President of the Parliament has been elected with 76 hands, you remember that very well, the absolute majority, although it's not necessary according to the Rules of Procedure, so on the number demonstration, I think we've been through this game, colleague Maras. As for the issues related to the education education strategy, the protest we saw in Zagreb and several other cities and in general for education reform. So in Croatian society there are those who are open, inclusive, ready for dialogue and those who are exclusive and apriors disqualify others. You, Mr. Jovanovic, have your views on this issue, you are referring to these others. It is known to the widest public, it is also known by the basis of your present appearance. Unlike you, my government has a special expert commission headed by the Rector of the Zadar University of Vican, which has 11 members. In this commission were people from different parties and academic community and people from the SDP, former Minister of Science, professor of the University of Split, one of the colleagues of Professor Romic from MOST, one representative of national minorities, very important for inclusiveness, Mr. Zelec from the SDSS, Mr. Pero Lučin a member of the HSS former Rector of the Rijeka University. All this was not in a special expert commission formed several years ago by then by Prime Minister Milanovic. So on pluralism, inclusiveness, efforts to reach a consensus on a fundamental issue for the Croatian future, which is education. You were also Minister of Science and Education, so unlike your exclusive and disqualifying approach, our government's approach, me as Prime Minister, Minister of Science and Education is inclusive. As far as the procedure itself is concerned, let me remind you, the expert working group led by Mr. Jokic was not chosen by the rules based on a public tender but on a public call. For his place was then, behold, only one candidate, based on the public tender now 11 candidates, in that contest there were, according to my information, all expensive candidates 37 for the task force, now 125. There were neither principles nor criteria to choose by, now there were. So unlike your model at the time when you were in power, this process was transparent and inclusive in several public acts and the minister and president of the special expert commission and the newly elected president of the expert working group exposed their views, explained the procedure to the Croatian public and thus met the high standards required by the strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament and which imposes access to the work and approach to action that we have. For the Croatian public, I repeat, my position and attitude of our government, education must be such that all Croatian children learn what is important about our identity, our culture, our language and our history, to acquire broad general education and general culture, and that the process of schooling primary, secondary and later higher education is such that they are critical, that they have all the abilities and analysis and synthesises and that they are ultimately ready for the labour market. It's an approach to the reform of education and education we have. If you wish to participate in it, you are welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39020	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Jovanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39021	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Plenkovic, you haven't actually answered anything. You did not tell me by what criteria this expert working joint was appointed, as the chairman of the committee, who is the personal adviser to the minister, which clearly states to what extent this policy took place. You didn't even say if you had 76 hands. 75% of citizens no longer support your government's direction and this is a clear message such as the clear message of 50,000 people protesting against such curricular reform. Therefore, Mr. Plenkovic, show us the numbers, and if you do not have 76 hands, please choose to call the election. Therefore, you deceived your party when you talked and laminated about the majority you never had, you deceive this assembly, you deceive the Croatian public. As for the curricula reform, after your predecessor Karamarko died of reform, you have now buried her. So listen to the citizens of Croatia who ask you to call the secretary immediately and ask her to resolve and write a decision on the settlement of the plagiarist of Minister Barisic, also ask that Mrs Vican be replaced and repeat the procedure for the expert working group. I repeat, we do not need any clerical reform, we need curricular reform, and by appointing people to the National Council for Education and Education in which you have included ultraconservative, clerical groups "In the name of the family", you have shown to the HRAST that you have no width at all but have handed over the reform of key education into the hands of ultraconservative clerical groups that are against evolution, which deny evolution, which support the greeting "For a home ready!" which says that you are doing everything that is contrary to what you stood for when you spoke of some credibility. Mr. Plenkovic, show us the numbers, if you don't have 76 hands, please go to the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39022	Thank you very much. Next question, distinguished colleague Silvano Hrelja. The issue points to Minister of Labour and Pensions Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39023	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. When systems aren't valorized and projections aren't reconsidered then events happen to us today. We planned to have the first two-stage pensioners in 2019 when they needed the first women who were under 40 in 2002 to get the opportunity to leave early retirement. Despite our forecasts and predictions, however, it happened that this year two men went into full retirement at the age of 55 because they worked 30 years on jobs with an increased duration of 18 by 12, a year and a half for a year. So it is undeniable that they have exercised the right to full retirement under the general law, the Pension Insurance Act. However, compared to their colleagues from the same jobs compared to last year when their colleagues had the right to choose a one-stage pension or two-stage pension, they chose all of them, their pension is less than 900 to 1300 kuna, and because I say they have no choice and do not have an allowance of 27% per year of contributions to the first pillar of pension insurance. My question is, what does the ministry plan to do in these circumstances because they are not individuals, it's probably a larger number of people, and really this doesn't make any sense than that, and this kind of inequality from year to year in the pension system?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39024	Thank you. I'm asking Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39025	Representative Hrelja, first of all, thank you for this question. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System is aware of the problems that the pension system would have gone into with a possible failure to respond to a situation in which persons who were less than 40 years old in 2002 remain without an add-on of 27%. According to our data this year should go to about 15 people in the Republic of Croatia, we are fully aware of that. However, you know for a fact that it was exceptional cases that could choose or not choose retirement. What I want to stress anyway is this. An allowance of 27%, which was intended primarily for persons who only retired from the first pillar and after that for people who could choose between the first pillar and the second pillar, so they are more aware of what it is. These are persons between the ages of 40 and 50 in 2002. This 27% supplement, i.e. its absence, would mean a reduction in pensions, i.e. fewer pensions for our citizens who were less than 40 in 2002, both for female and male persons. The more significant contingent of these people retires in 2019 as you said and will be about 400 women's sexes according to the data we currently have. The Ministry of Labour and the Pension System is currently working on an analysis of a number of potential solutions that are all going towards the same starting point, which is to settle the pension gap earned in the first and second pillars from fellow Members’ pensions, in particular by colleagues who have only retired according to the first pillar. What needs to be kept in mind is the fact that at this point, no one can know exactly at this time what percentage it is, future persons who retire in 2019 in the next 2 years during 2017, or 2018, by staying in a capitalised savings system or in a two-stage system as such will also capitalise their assets at rates, i.e. on real contributions that we are not familiar with at this time. So we will only experience them in 2017, i.e. 2018. In any case, the solution that will take place will be based primarily on solidarity, or social sensitivity that exists in the Republic of Croatia and the direction in which we have actually been going since the beginning of the mandate, which we have confirmed by increasing the minimum wage on the one hand but also by developing a social dialogue with our social partners. So we are aware of the cases you mentioned, several gentlemen who have requested retirement, we are aware of the fact that at this time these persons are not receiving the pension that their colleagues are receiving. The moment a legal solution is passed and we plan to do so in the second part of this year, those persons, or the backlogs of their pensions, will be resolved in relation to these differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39026	Thank you. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39027	Thank you for your response, Mr. Minister, I understand your answer. Of course, the system has to be valorized all the time. And that's the context I remind you of in this answer just one more problem because I'm using this opportunity, and that's that at the head of equality, not just solidarity and reciprocity must be one of the key principles of the pension system. Which means that, in parallel with that, we should think for 2019 for those who will not be lucky from two pensions, so from the first and second pillars, we should have a pension, as do the users of the lowest pension that we have to provide them with, provide one protection. The first pillar will have to take over that protective function. And I personally don't experience the first and second pillars separately, but where one begins, the second ends, ends and vice versa. And they're actually complementary, they're building on each other. Whoever's thinking about this is two systems. I think they're wrong. And that equal protection as regards minimum pensions must be given to single-term pensions users as well as to pensioners from two pillars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39028	Thank you, too. The 5th question, distinguished counterpart Boris Milosevic, raises the question to Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39029	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable and Honorable Prime Minister of Croatia, the Honorable Ministers and Ministers. My question is addressed to the finance minister and concerns the problem of paying value added tax, on donations, so on donations for projects donated outside, so the EU. We have numerous settlements in the area of special state care, therefore areas affected by the war, which have either very bad infrastructure, communal or actually do not have it at all. So the population lives without access to water, without access to electricity, or has no fixed roads. So any kind of project that improves this situation, this situation is welcome and the state needs to find a way to help every single unit of local self-government in such problems. We now have a situation that when a local self-government unit finds a donor outside the EU, which finances such a municipal project that it must pay a value added tax on that investment and, in fact, that payment of VAT threatens the entire project. In a specific case, we have Ervenik municipality which has found a donor in the United States, who is willing to finance, so the reconstruction of a water supply network in the municipality, however, the amount to be paid for VAT is about a million kuna. The municipality does not have the means and therefore we have a problem because the municipality has no right to reject the project because of the living conditions of its citizens, and I believe that the state must find a way to help such projects and municipalities. So my question to you is how does the Ministry of Finance feel that it can help municipalities in implementing such projects, that the state itself pays or that the municipalities are free to pay VAT?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39030	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you very much, Your Honor. I must admit immediately at the beginning, therefore, the exemption from any type of VAT exemption to imports of goods for the purpose of donations is not specific to Croatia, it was in line with the EU directives still in force in 2006, and Croatia implemented the same directive with the amendments to the VAT Act as early as 1 January 2010. There was another provision that was in place, allowing VAT to be released on donated funds if they were the subject of international contracts that bound Croatia. However, this was only valid until 1 July 2013, when the directive, I repeat, actually excludes this kind of VAT exemption. Otherwise, our VAT Act and this new one, therefore it is fully in line with the directive and Article 44 very clearly and in detail prescribes and defines all possible VAT exemptions. Unfortunately, in this particular case, this is not an example. However, I will point out that we have several examples from the recent past, there were certain types of military equipment donations to the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, you remember very well, and helicopters also from the United States. Also in my ministry, the Ministry of Finance donated certain equipment to detect radioactive substances and general radiation for our customs service. So, in both examples, the state found, within its budgetary opportunities, certain funds, of course, to enable, in no way, to prevent such types of donations. We had one and a recent example of the donation I would say not only in terms of financial value but much, much broader equipment for the education of our primary school students within the so-called so-called “. ” STEM Revolution. So, where the state is also, this government has very clearly shown how it supports such types of donations, and as far as local self-government is concerned, I would certainly suggest that dialogue, I understand that these million kunas for the said municipality are large amounts in terms of their fiscal capacities, but I think that in the dialogue, central, or local states, we can also find an adequate solution in this field and certainly allow such types of donations to live up to or be realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39031	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39032	Mr. Minister, I'm not completely satisfied with your response, but I understand that you understand the importance of the problems in which municipalities, which do not have strong fiscal capacity and therefore have a population that needs to lead, therefore, to decent living conditions in this case, thus leading to the approach. We have a problem here, a tax should be paid, and so is a municipality that has a weak fiscal capacity, but hopefully, in coordination with other ministries, there will be a way to solve this problem. For example, the fund, we have the Ministry of Regional Development which formed a fund to co-finance projects from the EU, but therefore, this fund is limited to projects from the EU that in some ways co-finance and solve these problems, so I think that this kind of donations related to municipal and infrastructure projects should also be co-financed from such similar funds. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39033	Thank you, too. We move on to the next question, this is distinguished counterpart Boris Miletic, asking Minister Tolusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39034	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, we have invested in olive groves in Croatia for years. Speaking of which, I'm going to talk about our farmers, our family farms, people who really live off their work and create added value. After many olives were planted after starting with the quality of olive oil to be top destinations worldwide. With impatience, our farmers expected the abundance of regulations contained in measure 4.1 and 4.2, so that they could use incentives for their activity as their colleagues in other European countries. Recently, these rules have been published, and what has embellished, therefore, farmers, we are talking about the olive groves is the fact that, therefore, investment in their necessary infrastructure after the olive groves themselves, these are the necessary oils, that as such they are excluded from these measures and that they are not, at all, prone to being subordinated to therefore to colleagues from Italy, Spain who are heavily using European funds, which is our intensity precisely in building the necessary oil. We saw last year which was extremely good that they were very busy, that unfortunately the processing was pending, that the situation was almost on the verge of a physical incident. And apart from the fact that the oils are excluded, we are talking about the entire part of the Adriatic that has the possibility of growing olives, we see that you have listed a development index that makes our OPGs in Istria de facto impossible to qualify for the competition, that is, we would really have to meet the maximum of all points in order to get to that 40-point limit. So my question is, will you revise the existing rule and respect the cry of our farmers who really see this as discriminatory?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39035	Thank you. Please, Minister of Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39036	First of all, welcome to the President of the Parliament, parliamentary representatives and MPs, the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, thank you to the honourable representative for the questions asked. Here's just a brief recapitulation of the entire rural development program. So two dots, slightly less than 2.4 billion euros is at our disposal. So far, we've opened bids worth a billion and 140m euros, so somewhere 47%, we've contracted about 605m euros. So 25% and so far have paid about 350 million euros, or 15% of total funds. So the amount of funds we're making is also increasing. This year, 36 contests in seven months. In the last two years, 32 competitions. I think you can see the shift in all that. Olives aren't thrown out of anything. Now that we're talking about processing, there were only competitions for priority sectors. There will be more competitions of 4.2 where our olivers will be, so there will be no dispute. By the way, we were able to leave when we were talking about olivers and the incentives they had per litre of oil, which should have been abolished. We found the modeality to leave that part as well as the tobacco production, as well as for dairy cows, and for everything that should have been abolished this year. We found a moduso to continue leaving these money to our olivers, or to the olives, and to all those involved in the process. Otherwise, when we talk about olive groves or Istria or Dalmatia, you probably know that a good part of our farmers so far on state land could only be engaged in agricultural activities. If he wanted to do some additional contents of the type, whether wineries, pastries or olives on that land couldn't. We've also passed a rulebook that should be effective on the right of service on agricultural land where it can be done. That's where the initiative just came from, most of all, from the Istria area. When we talk about the development index, it has a 20% maximum of 100 points, or 20 points. 20 points for the first and second groups in the development index, means for the most underdeveloped area. Third and fourth are wearing something smaller. The point of all European funds is actually to develop undeveloped areas. So either olive groves or anyone is in an area that by the development index the fourth group or fifth can occur, but of course they will get a slightly smaller number of points than those in undeveloped areas. Otherwise, the development index has been in the score system so far when we talk about both 4.1 and 4.2. but by some different criteria. So everyone can pick up, and I believe that those projects that are quality, there's got to be a lot in it, that I believe they'll be participating and passing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39037	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39038	Well, first of all, thank you, I'm glad if you're going to revise measure 4.2 and include the possibility of apps and olivers who want to invest in their capacities, i.e. invest in the construction of oil. I say once again, and the oil price itself has increased precisely because competitive countries are supporting such activity and I believe that we should always take care of the internal development policy within the country itself and how we are doing it to competitive countries. When we talk about the development index, so I want to be very clear. Absolutely, we need to be solid and help those who are less developed. However, I believe it is unfair to discriminate against those farmers who live in an area with a higher development index unless they can indeed de facto or realize the possibility of a minimum number of points to be within the application. So I say one more time, it needs to be solid, I think we're doing it. I come from Istria who spends more than a billion kuna a year in the state budget than is coming back. But I say once again the state should encourage the excellent, those who run faster not in a way to break their legs. It may give them a little bit more obstacles on the road, but they too can run their route and that they can use funds because they too are taxpayers, working, paying their commitments to the state and should allow them to use EU funds as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39039	Thank you, too. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39040	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I think we're taking part in a farce. We're asking questions to a prime minister who doesn't have a majority and we don't have four ministers. That's why I'm asking, because of this situation, that farce is why I'm looking for a 10-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39041	Thank you, too. I'm afraid I can't grant you a break. In accordance with Article 249, this is an article that defines the reasons for the non-approval of the break. The chairperson will not approve a recess for the meeting of the club of representatives, provided that the request for a recess is submitted under a) reads: ‘Before the established agenda and the changeover to the agenda. So, we haven't gone to the agenda yet, because the current morning is treated as something that comes before the agenda. And I'm also calling for so far's practice in the seventh session, the fourth and sixth sessions, then the presidents were Šprem and Leko who refused to take a break and it became a practice. I'll stick to those practices. If you are not satisfied, please contact the Constitutional Committee in accordance with Article 236. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39042	The Honorable President of the Parliament, without most of us, we participate in the farce. We're taking part in a farce where four ministers are not appointed has two months, you don't have a majority. That's why I'm asking for a break, to break this disgrace that Prime Minister Plenkovic made without a majority and to disband this Parliament. Because it's time to break the farce that's been made for the last two months where it's being deceived and lied to the public to have most. Most of them don't. This House must preserve your dignity. You must be careful that the four ministers are brought in. The minister of police doesn't exist right now. You are obliged at this time to protect this House's dignity and to have the prime minister here without a majority say who the ministers are. We've been without a minister for two months, and I'm asking you to solve this problem, not always be obedient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39043	Thank you very much. So there is a Law on Government which clearly tells you that at the first next session of the Croatian Parliament, the Prime Minister will propose. This is the session. That's what's gonna happen at that session. So, I will work in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that is what I consider to be right. So, we continue with the current morning. The seventh question is distinguished counterpart Ivan Lovrinovic, asking the prime minister, Mr Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39044	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, are you prepared to adopt a regulation on putting above the saga lex Agrokor, because of possible lawsuits by creditors and suppliers that would make the Republic of Croatia a judge, because it took responsibility for the management of a private company, by adopting Lex Agrokor. As a representative, I must warn the citizens of this danger, which is real.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39045	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39046	So, esteemed colleague Lovrinović, the Law on Extraordinary Management in Trade Companies of Systemic importance, was adopted in the Croatian Parliament for the protection of jobs, protection of the Croatian economy, protection of our financial system. It might not be bad for those who criticise the law, its application, to say what would be an alternative today. What would the Croatian economy look like if it didn't have that law? What would happen to 60,000 jobs? What would happen to 200 thousand people who are employees of the supplier? What would happen to the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy? That's a question I haven't heard from in the past few weeks and months. I didn't hear it here in the Croatian Parliament either, I didn't hear it at the time when we were preparing the law, when we offered the opposition to participate in the consensual resolution of one of the most important economic and financial problems the country faces from its independence, and I can't hear it today. On the contrary, by adopting this law, we created a process that we manage, a process that prevented chain reactions, which did not lead to job losses, which allowed a turning point for a new trust, when it comes to the company's business and what is most important, also enables fresh liquidity. The liquidity has secured salaries for April, secured salaries for May, will secure salaries for June. The new liquidity and trust of creditors also provides for a practically finalising phase of the new loan negotiations, which will be subject to significantly more favourable conditions and interest than the company's duties, in which the previous administration and authorities worked. And all of these processes will allow us, through the next 12 to 15 months, to record the real situation in the company with the world's most renovated consultants for reconstruction and business and finance, with a thorough analysis of one of the 4 key global audit houses, with the best legal advisers, to look at the whole context, complicated and complex relations within and outside the company, to try to find a solution that will lead to business sustainability and that will lead to job sustainability, without major impact on the Croatian economy, on our credit rating and on our financial stability. Therefore, the aim of the government, based on the law, is to hold this process, to hold this helm in our hands, to engage in dialogue with both suppliers and creditors and with all other actors and to find solutions that will be most painless and that will also enable companies in the context of concerts to operate in the future of their basic incomes and after a settlement with the believers. This is the process we entered, aware of the responsibility, but we have always and always insisted that the debts of the company never become the debts of the state, i.e. the debts of the taxpayers. And there's the key and there's the point and there's my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39047	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39048	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not happy with your answer. Why? If you were to bring the Emergency Procedure Regulation, you would return company management to private hands, to private frameworks and prevent taxpayers, i.e. the Republic of Croatia from becoming a Judge of Agrokor, according to all types of debts that cumulatively exceed more than 40 billion kuna. If that does not happen, the likely lawsuits by the creditors in front of domestic, foreign courts and arbitration and threatens to pose a real threat to the debt becoming part of the public debt of the Republic of Croatia, to increase it, to make it possible for citizens, i.e. taxpayers, to pay it. It will worsen the position of the Republic of Croatia, bring us back again, activate the excessive deficit procedure, and rating agencies will lower us even further, thereby collecting Croatia's foreign debt. I would like to stress that from the moment of activation of Lex Agrokor, which was voted by HDZ and MOST representatives, no ownership issue has been resolved, the structure of members of supervisory boards in related societies, and the competition in addition to being declared by this law a moratorium, on any charges, on credit claims and other grounds, is not able to generate even cash for regular business. I can't see that. That didn't really change anything, this way. It could prove to be the exact warning of a Russian banker who took over the management of a private company, then must assume potential liabilities and costs of failure. It's a real danger. The ruling politicians knew all this, the state of Agrokor, and that's still the case. This confirms the recent statement by Deputy Prime Minister Martine Dalic, who publicly said and admitted that she knew that Agrokor provides suppliers with greater margins than was possible in competition. What sooner or later some of the leaders of the state will have to explain is why they were meeting secretly with Agrokora's creditors. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39049	Thank you. I'm sorry the time is up. Thank you. The eighth question, dear colleague Marco Vedligaj. Here, the question goes to Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39050	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, members of the government, respected ministers. My question is focused on the Law on financing the local (regional) and regional self-government units. By amending the Tax on Income and Tax on Companies, local units have lost more than two billion kuna. The finance ministry has compensated compensation measures for part of this loss to local units, however, it is not enough. We have been frozen on the situation since 2016 and we have no use for economic growth. Mr Minister, in several of your media advances, and even when the laws concerning this issue were passed, you promised here that you would propose a new draft law on the financing of units of regional and local self-government before the Croatian Parliament by the end of the fifth month. I don't need to remind you everything in the domain of units of local and regional self-government from municipal infrastructure, education, economic support, civil society, sport, etc. But one of the most important must have been preschool education, which is where Croatia began to cover children in the EU. My question is, of course, when will you actually not submit to this Croatian Parliament a new Bill on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, do I not see it here or in the agenda? Will you also take the original income per capita which is one of the criteria for equating the budget revenues of local units? And why is there no help for preschool education or for meeting pedagogical standards by the state that prescribed them for these institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39051	Thank you, too. I'm asking the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39052	Thank you very much. Your Honor. In the context of the two readings of the tax reform package, we talked a lot about this issue, and that's exactly what you said about how it was promised for 2017, we said we were going with a transitional solution, we immediately communicated it to him that it was a transitional solution that for the first time after several examples from the recent past, when changes in the income tax code left local self-government without any compensatory measures. As Government, we have made it very clear that from the state budget at the monthly level, this is also foreseen in the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2017, we will compensate this loss to the level of income from 2016. At the same time, we said that this year and you quoted me well, by the end of the fifth month we would propose a new Law on the financing of units of local (regional) and regional self-government. I've told you here and you, and I've told you this several times in public, and I don't have a problem with saying very honestly and openly that the reason why we're late with the law isn't because we don't know each other, or we plan on stalling it, but it's really very complex matter. So my team at the Ministry of Finance, and it is included in the talks and communication of representatives of the Association of Cities, the Association of Municipalities, the county community that also participates with their valuable advice, but the fact is that many changes, and we also talked about them in the context of the debate on tax reform, are indeed numerous changes, particularly in the Income Tax Act, led to such income tax systems that simply create can be said by almost a Gordian node in the law or generally in the financing of local self-government. And we try to untangle that knot or find a truly adequate solution that will not be traced by those previous ones that always someone goes a little better, and of course worse go mainly by those economically weaker our developed county cities and municipalities. We want to continue with this work, make one real, transparent simple, but ultimately just system that will strengthen the fiscal capacity of the local (regional) and regional self-government units, enable their stronger participation in their projects, projects financed by European funds and ultimately serve the right purpose, which is that fiscal decentralisation goes parallel to functional decentralisation among other things that you also mentioned in your question, regardless of whether we are talking about pre-school or school education, health care, social security, fire, or any other segment. So you can expect, in any case, that during the year, this proposal for a law on the financing of the local (regional) and regional self-government units will come to the Croatian Parliament. We put in it not only an emphasis on the distribution of income tax but also on all other forms that are income units of local (regional) and regional self-government, so among other things, and some that we have recognised in the context of tax reform, some of which, of course, remember that they have been abolished or reduced by finding an adequate model that will benefit all of us, or all of our local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39053	Thank you, too. Here you go, keep your eyes open.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39054	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the Honorable Minister, I'm afraid I can't be pleased with your answer. Today it's 7.6. As far as I know, the fifth month is over, we don't have any documents here realizing what the problem is, is that it's complex. I think that you and the entire government should pay a lot more attention to this issue, and not deal with a variety of committees to deal with the past because this is actually about our future. I will look again at preschool education which is in the domain of a local self-government unit that may be crucial for the development of this country, and we have devastating data in some local units involving children attending kindergartens is less than 5%, some parents pay 350 kuna children's kindergarten per month, some pay 900 kuna per month. Some local units single out 20,000 inhabitants per child, some single out 350 kuna per capita. These are the key problems of this country. By encouraging local units to have more resources, I have here referred to preschool education, you can actually give people a chance to stay living in smaller local units, you can also encourage demography there, you can also encourage employment. Unfortunately, this government didn't do it, it didn't deal with our future. I believe that, at least as a technical minister, you will encourage this further to continue this process and, in due course, to see this new Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, to actually get for everyone, to get an equal opportunity for development because at this point unfortunately they do not have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39055	Thank you, too. We're moving on to question nine. Dear counterpart Branko Hrg raises the question of Agriculture Minister Tomislav Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39056	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, all ministers and ministers. Dear Ministers Mr Tolusic, I am interested in the fate of the rural development measures 722 and 741, therefore, concerning the unclassified roads and related to this social infrastructure in rural areas, since we have many more villages today that have no resolved issue at all of modernised and paved roads. On the other hand in firehouses, social homes have invested a lot of money in legalization, these homes now require, of course, much stronger investment, so I am interested when expected, the results mean competitions that have been carried out and the beginning of the realization. A second question, if there would be an extraordinary parliamentary election, what will happen to these measures? Will they wait again a year, will they be re-longed, will the EU funds still stand on the sidelines and people have put forth a lot of effort or will they still be able to implement themselves in this technical sense?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39057	Thank you very much, Minister of Agriculture's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39058	Thank you, Mr. Horg, for asking. So we've called the last seven months of competitions that directly bind to local self-government units, meaning municipalities and places and up to 5,000 residents, for somewhere around a billion kuna. So we have a water supply and drain tender in rural areas of about 300 million kuna, which is practically over. The results and contracts should be signed through some hope 10 days, maybe before. We're talking about new, 80 projects here, so all over Croatia. And there are about 400 million kunas left to do so for future competitions. When we talk about unclassified roads, the competition is called 173 million kuna, it's for some 30 projects. There are 250 to 300 million kuna left in that item. Here we expect to see the results of the competition within about a month, meaning the allocation of money to units of local self-government and then, of course, a new competition. And the last long-awaited competition means basic services for the local population, or to translate it into a language that we all understand, means infrastructure by municipalities and social homes and firehouses and squares, but also by what Mr. Vesligaj mentioned, we took special care of demographics and gave a lot more points to build kindergartens. And here we're talking about a competition worth about 390 million kuna, that's some new 70 projects of which, I hope at least half should be children's kindergartens that this country is funding through a rural development programme in the 100% selection. We are therefore far from the story that the state is not taking care of demographics, preschool education, youth and our children. So, right now we have a tender worth about a billion kuna, and this last one is going to be, like, done working somewhere for about two months, and then we're going to go with new tenders, or we're going to simplify the procedure, and it should be from the day of the end of the competition, for the new competition that we're going to call, by the day of the contract, it's going to take 120 days, unlike a year and a half, two, how long it's taken for the last three years, during some of the former and other governments. Whether the new elections will prevent the realisation of these projects will not mean that the implementation of the tendering agencies for payments in agriculture and rural development but, of course, the spread of some of the future ones depends on the debt if there are possible new elections when and what it will be and how it will end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39059	Thank you, colleague Hrg. You don't want to comment, thank you very much. We move on to the 10th question, distinguished counterpart Siniša Hajdaš-Doncic, raises the question to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39061	My dear Prime Minister, your graduate is finished, you visited Croatia in 14, 20 days as party president, which is justified. So that's part of your mission. On the other hand, what is your question today? The question about INA, that it will return to Croatian hands? A question about the insufficiency of your law or the law of your colleague Mrs. Dalic about Agrokor and the inability to roll up loans might make something better? What can I ask you about Zvečev? So I won't ask you these questions, unfortunately you remind me of Sean Penn from that movie "Dead Men Walking", political, "Dead Men Walking", to repeat, "Dead Man Walking" but political, hyperbola, hyperbola, I don't insult. Or should I ask you very clearly, after the failed reluctance yesterday as you slept with the Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39062	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39063	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39064	Well, then I'll answer, you know how it goes, who with the kids gets laid, wakes up pissed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39065	And well, I would ask you though to choose the words...... It's all right, it's all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. We move on to question number 11, that is distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic, asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39066	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister of State, I welcome you all together on behalf of the HSS Club. And here, on behalf of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are we asking the question of what is going on in order to achieve what we are always talking about? That we are interested in the first plan that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has available health care, that the patient is in the first place, and on the other hand we have a situation where today in the Republic of Croatia 2344 family medicine teams are contracted and that 67 teams are currently without doctors. In a similar way, if we know that 38 teams have been agreed in Požeško-Slavonski, Ličko-Senjska 32, which is missing 67, this means 2 counties without a family doctor, and we know that in primary health care, most of the problem with the treatment of patients should be addressed, with regard to health care, so that there is no pressure on secondary health care. We know that healthcare debts have exploded and that where the problem can be solved, we do nothing, and in addition to that, there are 14 doctors missing in Brod-Posavina County in teams and the additional problem is that the average age of a family doctor is 52 years and we will soon be without a family doctor. About 400 doctors are missing Croatia at this point. And it is right to ask the grandmother of Gorica, the municipality of Draganić, where she will be treated, how she will reach the doctor of family medicine because a year ago, a tender for specialisation in primary healthcare for 175 specialists was announced, and today is not yet scheduled. Why is it not called, especially when we know there should be funding for the European Union So you don't care about health care for people living in rural areas. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time, time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39067	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39068	Thank you very much, colleague Vlaovic. So health system reform is one of the key issues in the National Programme for Government Reform of the Republic of Croatia. Minister Kujundzic, the Ministry of Health in a continuous dialogue with all relevant actors, partners, the doctor's chamber were also at my meeting. We are aware of the number of doctors leaving Croatia, we are aware that an insufficient number of young doctors are actually coming to the labour market. After completing the Faculty of Medicine throughout Croatia, we understand the deficit. The Minister has the task of making the health system available to everyone, to find solutions that would seek to reduce the debt that exists in the health system, which would allow quality health care in both cities and rural areas, and I think we will also find a clue to your question and to what the minister is doing with special attention to what a detailed situation is in Brod-Posavina County since I have no memory of the information about these places where you are alluding. I will ask the Minister of Health that unfortunately we cannot both answer, such is the Rules of Procedure, to provide you with a written reply on the details of which you have asked the question at this time with reasonable interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39069	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39070	Thank you for your response, but here we can't be satisfied on behalf of all citizens who suffer the problem of not having a doctor of family medicine. Because there's a lot of hospitals where a doctor comes in once or twice a week, you see what the quality of health care is. The problem is also the lack of specialists in primary health care, gynecologists and pediatricians, and the impression is yes, that's why I asked you a question because we know you don't have all the information but obviously you and the minister don't well inform you or the minister does not implement those policies that you gave him in the assignments and you say you gave him assignments. Because it's impossible for the minister to change the rule of specialization, to lose part of his primary health care doctor, and to spill it into a secondary one without doing anything, to fill in that deficiency. 400 doctors are currently missing, we've suggested to increase the quota enrolment in medical schools, nothing has been done and here's the time to start doing something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39071	Thank you, too. We move on to the 12th question, dear colleague Vlaho Orepic is asking the Prime Minister the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39072	Mr Plenkovic, although you have not yet presented the new parliamentary majority that is necessary for the confirmation of the new ministers, I will also say your mandate at this time, is that, at this point, I also want to see that, at this point, the full political instability that we should be truly aware of, regardless of the political positions you have caused, means that you have caused this political complete instability, which is why you have proved your unbelief by offering cooperation to the political option that prompted the shift and questioned the mandate of Mr Maric, which is why you have your parliamentary majority, which is why you have, in that way, removed. But that's not a question, no matter what, I want to ask you next. We are a significantly large period without the Minister of the Interior, and it is certain to man, the Secretary of State is extremely difficult to do this job, with him as the Secretary of State and two assistants himself, because I know the size of the job and I know that in that ministry it is minimally with 3 State Secretary, 4 or 6 Assistants, and with that minister it is an extremely demanding job. Is it really irresponsible to Mr Plenkovic, irresponsible to you, that one such important resort at this time of extraordinary and great burdens imposed through the prism, if I look through the prism of frequent terrorist attacks, if we look through the prism of the exceptional frequency of passengers through the Republic of Croatia, is it irresponsible to keep this ministry out of line? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39073	Thank you. I'm asking the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39074	... an irresponsible being against your fellow minister? [[Specially enabled.]] The colleagues you've been building with for a year and four months without a previous debate, without a discussion with your club, without a debate in the Croatian Parliament, do you know what it's called? It's called a political verdict without being heard. You didn't even listen. What you and your colleagues did at that cabinet session never happened in Croatian political history because it was not a matter of sectoral law from the MUP, some of the finance, of the defence, of the economy. It was a previous political issue called loyalty, honesty, correctness in partnership. I testified that you were sitting next to a colleague for a year and a half, and I had the impression that you had a good relationship. We need to talk about the budget if we're gonna make a deal. I didn't notice you had a problem. I didn't hear him. You didn't have any problem. And you tell me that I have caused instability, and you who have made a political decision, a political verdict, a disqualification, and a priority, without debate, and thus disqualifying yourself from the government is a replacement of the thesis that you and your colleagues are trying to place for a month and a half but it doesn't pass. You don't even get past the results of your local election. Here's your mayors, are they selected? Mayors? No, they're not. Therefore, you cannot sell this replacement to anyone but yourself that is very important and very important. As far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, it functioned normally, and while you were a minister, it works now on all matters. On security issues, transport issues, border crossings, problem solving, for example, the implementation of the revised Schengen Code. I'll be there, unlike you, correct. And you, working together with your colleagues, helped Commissioner Avramopoulos, to explain to Slovenian colleagues that we are a tourist country, that 18% of GDP is tourism income, that we cannot as a country of tourist destination allow us to fight terrorism to leave us lines at the borders of five hours and cooperate. And you wrote letters to Avramopoulos. After you were no longer in the government that job we continued. We continued it intensively in communication with both Toosk and Juncker and Avramopoulos and Cerar and Orban and at the state secretary level, at the Minister's level and managed to reduce the crowds. So it's working, it's working. We do it in good faith. I'm sure you and I would have been loyal to your fellow minister and colleague for 16 months working together with your secretary of state and other colleagues. And there's this key difference, so it's a question of stability or instability. If someone put stability, calmness, inclusiveness, peace in the political debate in this country, then I did so, and that's what the people did on September 11th, and that's what the people did in both the first and second rounds of the election. Look at the percentage and the HDZ rating. So my selfish approach would be immediately to the elections, let's capitalize it and get which mandate more. We can do it tomorrow along with your support. Here's to getting Mr. Bull another chance to run for election, because he's obviously crying out for the election. He was successful now. However, my interest in the Croatian state, Croatian economy, Croatian security, Croatian financial system and jobs. Everything I do, and first of all, the people, first of all, are the people, and that's the key. Therefore, my co-operation with you was good. It's not finished for any particular reason but for the so-called so-called. the previous political issues of correctness, cooperation and loyalty, and there is a point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39075	Don't throw your friend Bulj, please! I let the others go a little over. Comrade Orepic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39076	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39077	Comrade Bulj, I beg you to hold on. No, it's not, you were throwing it away, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39078	It is very important to mention here some normal principles of functioning in a democratic society, meaning some kind of three votes against which they are political. And Mr. Maric's position, I still think today is politically indefensible, is it in the government. Okay. But I am concerned by one other fact, your truly undemocratic approach to resolving relations. You should be as aware as all the people who adhere to the legal norms please just for a second, that you usurped the power of the Parliament by changing ministers. You should have your mandate come from this House as well as the mandate of all ministers. The other thing is, you took it on your own in some way and the role of the prime minister to choose when there will be elections, when you don't. And at this point, they really wanted me to admit it or not, it doesn't matter without cheerleading passions any matter is your mandate due to the absence of a parliamentary majority or the existence that you should present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39079	Thank you, too. We are moving on to question the 13th distinguished colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic questions the government's vice-presidents and the minister of the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts, Martini Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39080	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, esteemed ministers and ministers and state secretaries. I refer my question to Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Dalic because we daily testify that part of the public and media space has been contaminated by certain inaccuracies and spins over the Agrokor case. Dear Ministers and Deputy Prime Minister Dalic, we listen and read, as some economic analysts question, the government's decisive reactions in the case of Agrokor, or disagree with the fact that the collapse of Agrokor, as the leading private companies, would have a significant impact on the rest of the domestic economic system. So, on the one hand, we have a thesis, which raises the government's reaction to Agrokor, and at the same time, certain media circles, place another thesis, which claims that clearing up the Agrokor case, is actually not in the interest of some influential political circles. Can you now and here demystify these hypothesiss, which are being placed, i.e. unequivocally linked, a decisive reaction by the Government in the Agrokor case, to retaining the stability of the economic system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39081	Thank you. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs Dalic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39082	Thank you very much. Perhaps the most complex and visible way to answer your question is to try again, which would have happened if the Parliament hadn't adopted, on the government's proposal, the Emergency Administration Act. Since Agrokor's system with more than 50 companies was blocked for more than 3 billion kuna. Today, if the law had not been passed, we would be discussing the consequences of the bankruptcy of a company that has more than 30,000 employees and the consequences of the bankruptcy of its suppliers, which employ 148 thousand people. So, if the law hadn't been passed, we would be discussing lost jobs today, at least 50,000 people, at least 50,000 families that wouldn't have been paid. Given that the law has been passed, we today all these people and all these jobs have been preserved, we have Agrokor system, whose state is stabilised, we have a process in which in the final phase of negotiations on a loan that will pay an additional part of the old debts to suppliers and ensure the normal operation of the system itself. And we also have the possibility of analysts and, of course, individual representatives asking questions and taking care of the interests of the banks. They suggest that this and such law be withdrawn by a regulation. Which is legally impossible. They worry about how and how and why certain parts of the law may be missing, perhaps unspeakable, perhaps should be written better. It was precisely because of the stability of the Croatian economy, which was preserved by this law precisely because of the jobs it had kept, precisely because of the perspective it provided for restructuring and Agrokor himself, as well as the time to restructure their business and those who did business with Agrokor during the time, while it was managed by Ivica Todorovic. For all of these reasons, it is clear that the government's reaction, that the government's doing was what the Croatian economy needed, was ultimately shown both during the past period and during the local elections. However, just such an effective government reaction, precisely such a government reaction is to the benefit of preserving jobs, to the benefit of preserving the business of suppliers, to the benefit and interest of the Croatian economy, to provide space in democratic society and for criticism, to ensure, of course, and space to discuss what some banks want, what the Russian banks want, which is what the interests may be at risk, so we see that some companies are ready to continue to defend Ivica Todorovic, voting for his stay at the head of the supervisory board of certain companies. However, all of this will certainly not endanger, neither the process nor the results of the extraordinary administration in Agrokor, because they are the stability of the Croatian economy and allowing it to continue to grow and exploit, all the capacities and potentials of the positive economic trends that are happening around us. And they don't happen by accident to respected MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39083	Thank you. Dear MPs Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39084	Thank you, Vice President. I am pleased with the precise answer, Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39085	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39086	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. My question is going to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Tomislav Tolusic, and it concerns food safety issues, especially related to frozen meat. In recent days and months, we have witnessed that there is more and more frequent meat of dubious quality on the shelves of the store, which is either infected with salmonella or its lifetime has expired long ago, i.e. it is much older than what has been declared on that product, if we know that long-term food freeze, and hence also meat, poses health hazards or at least loss of quality and texture. If we know that there is a tourist season ahead of us where it is safe, where there is certainly an increased import of meat, I ask you, Mr. Minister, what is your ministry doing on this issue and what activities will it carry out in the next period?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39087	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39088	Thank you, Mr. Felak, for asking. So I think that this government led by the prime minister for the past seven months has shown how much care is being taken about the health of food, about the safety of our citizens in the context of what we eat and show I mean one strength in the fight against the import lobby in terms of those who import extremely unquality and very healthy food into the Republic of Croatia. Our rules are what they are. Unfortunately, no one has tried to change them for a year, two, three, five or ten so far. Why? You have to ask some others, not us, but that's something we're changing now. So we're working on a new regulation on the labelling of fresh and frozen meat, and that the situation is not great, I can say one piece of information from this year in control of one of the meat industries in Croatia. We found over 100 tons of meat without declaration, without marked origin, on one of these pieces of meat were the 2007 marks, 2008, 2009, today 2017. This is what I, as Minister of Agriculture or Prime Minister, do not want to allow in this country, and we are changing that. The new rule that will come into effect, hopefully during some 15 days, has just been completed, will be explicitly sought on frozen meat the date of slaughter and the date of freezing, of course plus additional paperwork to monitor it all. We will not allow anyone to poison the Croatian people, import meat from Brazil, Thailand, China, Tajikistan or I do not know from which other country, and all to make money on Croatian citizens. So that's what the Croatian government is doing with enhanced controls and all the other things you've been able to see for the past seven months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39089	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39090	Your Honor, Vice President. I am satisfied with this answer because I believe that concern about human health is something that we all need to take care of, especially those who are in charge of it, part of it and the Ministry of Agriculture in this domain. I also think that this encourages domestic production and that as little food as possible is imported and particularly of this kind of questionable quality. It is cheap perhaps in the beginning, but it is very dangerous for people's health, and we have domestic producers that can produce quality food, perhaps at a slightly higher price, but then we are safe in the origin and in what we eat and what we put on the table and our guests in the tourist season and in the long term I think it would certainly have a great effect on the whole economy, especially on agriculture and meat producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39091	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39092	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and Ministers. Here is after Croatia, after three and a half years out of the excessive deficit process, we must all be extremely pleased and proud. Last week, the European Commission recommended closing the procedure, which is the result of the government's primary work, with a low budget deficit of 0.8% of GDP in this period contributing to the process. We must stress primarily that there has been a reduction in public debt, that there has been an increase in industrial production, that after 30 years the number of unemployed has decreased below 200 thousand people, and at the same time we must be proud that one percent of employees, new employees, have appeared. With that in mind, please, can you tell us why and what you expect and what you are doing as a Government on how all of this will affect the average Croatian citizen and what will the government do if it continues to do so so that these positive trends continue?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39093	Thank you. The Minister of Finance will respond to the esteemed Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs. Everything you have said in terms of our, or recommendation from the European Commission on Croatia's exit from the excessive deficit procedure that should be implemented in the final part, we can also say that in June, after three and a half years from the beginning of 2014. Reasons, the genealogy of entry into the excessive deficit procedure, specifically in this so-called so-called "excessive deficit". The corrective mechanism is the fact that we have had a period of some high budget deficits that have resulted in very high growth in some years even by exponential public debt growth. All of this had repercussions on the Croatian credit rating, i.e. the price of debt and the price of capital paid both by the state and by the entrepreneurs, and ultimately by all taxpayers. As Government, we recognise that this is one of the key vulnerabilities of Croatia, we can say the economic policies of generally macroeconomic images, and from the first day we have launched the process of a strong fiscal consolidation where we have very clearly communicated that the key to the sustainability of public finances of Croatia is the cost-effective side of the budget, that we should be successful in rational and efficient spending of budgets, put more emphasis on the use of European funds and, on the income side of the budget, with an efficient collection of the conditions and condition that it goes into tax discharges and entrepreneurs and citizens, i.e. the total economy. And I think our first moves are like government, and here we can say the results exactly for showing and proving that what we said, we promised to do in action. However, it should also be said, so this exit from that so-called. the corrective mechanism, the excessive deficit procedure means entering together with all other Member States in the so-called A preventive which means that this trail should continue to work. I will just remind myself that the original recommendation of the European Commission was 2.7% last year, we have brought it down to 0.8% of GDP, which is historically the lowest since we measured it according to the European methodology. For the first time, we managed to reduce the share of public debt in GDP, even nominally reduce it, even under the good influence of exchange rate differences. And I think you know for yourself that the budget for this year and the projections that we made under the Convergence Programme for the next three years are saying that Croatia will continue on this trail, surely the key question is exactly what you said in the end and how it will affect Croatian citizens as well. We are still in the period of historically lowest interest rates due to large, monetary layoffs and we can say such major US moves, the European Central Bank, in terms of increasing liquidity. It affected the drop in the price of money, so the drop in interest rates. However, when we look, of course what citizens and entrepreneurs, the state is paying, the total interest rate. So there's always that so-called. the risk premium that depends on each country, i.e. on its macroeconomic indicators and everything that enters that scope. On this very trail, it is actually this element where, through this fiscal consolidation, leaving the process, repairing the credit rating, we should see that Croatian citizens in the future have to pay in comparison with other countries relatively lower interest, lower costs, any debt price, any capital price. This is the effect that this very exit from the excessive deficit procedure is certainly the most impressive and I must say in the end that these efforts and results, along with the European Commission, have also been identified by the international and financial institutions, and we can say so, of course, the local public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39095	Thank you. Dear representative Grozdana Perić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39096	I thank Mr. Secretary. I am extremely pleased with the answer and I hope that this government will certainly succeed and continue all these positive trends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39097	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39098	Thank you very much. My question goes to Mr. Plenkovic and we are in a bizarre situation. You act as if everything is normal, as if things work immaculately and nothing in Croatia today is normal, at least in politics. 41 days we don't have a government, you don't show most, 41 days. How long are you going to rule like that? Four years? Do you want to replace all the ministers and stay on the secretary of state? Theoretically it's also possible in this way that you're doing it now. You will agree with me and most Croatian citizens that Croatia is not going in the right direction. The Croatian economy is slowing down because we do not have a government, Croatia does not solve its problems, young people continue to leave Croatia. And what are you doing? What are you doing, Mr. Plenkovic? You brought down the government, caused political instability over one man, because of Agrokor? What are you doing next? You want political trade, not in your votes, but in the votes received by the SDP coalition, you want to provide your prime minister's chair with political trade. No one does that. That's not what Sanader or Karamarko did in politics. The votes that don't want you as prime minister should provide you with your political position. Croatian citizens don't want it, they don't want political trade, they don't want muttering under the table. My question to you, did that make you uncomfortable that you wanted to remain prime minister in political trade? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39099	Thank you for your response to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39100	You're my favorite representative, you know that, colleague Maras. Are you asking me this as a great advocate and supporter of the HGS in Split, or are you asking me as a representative of the SDP? Because I have to say, the last few weeks, I've had a feeling that I'm not really sure who you're representing or who your agents are. ... For HGS or for you? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39101	Excuse me, President,... I beg you, I beg you, just a moment, I beg you, Prime Minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39102	No, it's very important that we know where you are today. ... Well, I read carefully what you say and what you write, and then sometimes you confuse the public, voter. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] People in Split would like to know where SDP is when it already has such a strong percentage so let's see if you contribute or get away with it. Dear colleague Maras,... A, is, is, well as well then it's not your concern to ask me something. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39103	I beg you, just a little bit, I beg you now, Prime Minister and Representative Maras, I ask you to stick to the rules of the game, they are prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, no interaction, if you want interaction you can look for it elsewhere and not here. So please continue to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39104	Here I am listening carefully to my colleague Maras, I have not gone into any interaction except in my time and you are jumping into my time. ... No, I can, why not, so you have rhetorical questions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's important people know if you're HGS or SDP, it's what I'd like you to explain to people, but well, that's what I'm going to let you do. So, fellow Maras, as far as trends are concerned, let's be realistic and look at them realistically, whether the trends in GDP growth, the decrease in public debt never by a minor budget deficit, credit rating, prospects from negative to stable, growth in industrial production, decline in unemployment, growth in employment, excellent announcement of the tourist season, the resolution of border congestion, the prevention of financial collapse due to the crisis in Agrokor, normalisation of the political scene. I'm listening to your rhetoric, you're progressive in the European Parliament, you're called progressive, that's what you sometimes use, you and your colleagues, and I'm thinking about how progressive you've become. So when you listen to a good political scene in Croatia, the most toleranceal, persuasive, most inclusive rhetoric has HDZ, and it works consciously, because we are convinced that it is good for Croatian society to reduce antagonisms, to reduce divisions. What you're doing is going back to the story of a year and a half, two years and the last few years. It's your rhetoric. So, following your performances by your colleague Jovanovic, your colleague Hajdas Doncic, who every time in the current hour amounts to such bizarreness that it really stays like that old coffee-coffin weekend, that we can laugh from it years later, but it's his responsibility. So you're like a party weaker that you can't be weaker. And if we go to the election, you'll be so weak that you'll be sorry that you lost the mandates you've had since 9/11, so the people need to know. After the next election, the SDP will be the weakest, at least in this millennium and you will contribute and you know it. And you know it very well. And when you look at who of you at your club to be in the interest of going to elections, so you give an honest answer, I'm not sure you'd put it on your Facebook. And that's the point, that's the whole point. Unlike you, my responsibility as Prime Minister is much broader, much more state-run, much more serious and much more prepared to act, including the HNS, including the liberals in Croatia, because dialogue between the peoples and the liberals is something that is natural and normal and is part of a transformative process that I have been consciously doing for the past year and that I will continue and that will experience support, and you will not be in it because you are excluding yourself with your policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39105	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39106	Thank you very much. I've learned in my life that the one who yells at me, me, me, who sets himself up as if he's strong, is essentially the weakest in society. So I'm not impressed at all or how you like to say it doesn't impress me with that attitude of yours with the tall. You're the ones who are most afraid of choices, not because of what you're statesmen, you're afraid to... He's not gonna be 10, not 3 now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what you're afraid of, Mr. Plenkovic. Look at the truth in your eyes. We don't want less votes, I assure you, but you will get safe. You have destroyed the HDZ government twice, why would Croatian citizens give HDZ the chance for the third time not to do anything? Tell me an objective answer is given, and by what does Andrej Plenkovic assure them that he will be successful third time? The first time Karamarko failed, HDZ, the second time Plenkovic failed HDZ, why would the citizens now trust Plenkovic again? What makes you, how do you convince the citizens of stability? You brought down the government because of a minister, because of Agrokor, because you're hiding something there. Don't worry, Mr. Plenkovic about the SDP, you worry about HDZ. You have a lot of concerns in HDZ, so let the SDP aside. The voters who voted for the SDP don't want you as prime minister, and you wanted to buy those votes with trade and functions and chairs by offering them to our partners, so isn't that embarrassing? Find a country in Europe that works that way and do it that way. Mr. Plenkovic, citizens don't want this government and this kind of HDZ, nor will they give you confidence that you fail for the third time. Don't thank me, I've watched how much the Prime Minister has answered, I want at least that kind of a minute. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Every time, every time [[I'm begging you...]] Let me finish my sentence. [[I let you go for 10 seconds, and don't, don't be like that and don't be incorrect, I let you go for 10 seconds.]] Mr Plenkovic, Croatian voters and Croatian political parties do not want you to be the prime minister except HDZ. [[Incursion President: Finish the sentence, but do not act the way you behave, I beg you.]] Call the election, see what people tell you there, and then come here and talk like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39107	Thank you. We're moving on to the 17th question. Ivan Vilibor Sincic, questions Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39108	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my question for Mr. Maric's finance minister, regarding Agrokor. I'm glad that after those months of exemption and close encounter with political death, we all remember 75, 75, he showed up here to respond. So in my question, first of all, I'm asking that the legal conditions be applied equally to all entrepreneurs. As far as Agrokor is concerned, we know that this has been very convenient, not only during your term of office, but back in 20, so maybe 30 years since the special loans, bonds, bonds, the last purchase of shares, the special laws that have been passed, I've counted 19 in the last year alone, paying with huge delays, so, miserable concessions, we could do it by tomorrow. We know that it's happened, that this country is worth double standards, and I'm going to keep saying that again and again. As long as these standards don't be corrected, and as long as they don't become citizens equal before the law. Here's the thing about my questions. I've been saying one case that's on that lead. It's a Christmas loan. So there are indications that the Christmas loan given to Agrokor in the programme of promotion of exports, that part of the money went to Serbia in the IDEA chain, Todorovic's trade chain in Serbia. If you go to the basketball club's site today, Google the Red Star basketball club sponsors. The biggest sponsor is their exact idea. Therefore, the idea gives money to the Red Star basketball club and then the basketball club continues to hire any marketing agencies that are again connected to the Todorovics. It's one line for you to draw state money through Serbia out. So my question is this. Since you are in charge of the Tax Administration which the Ministry has done so far, it does and intends to do to examine the assets of the wider Todoric family from where and how the castle, helicopters, who knows what and how much money, in which accounts in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39109	The Honorable Finance Minister Dr Zdravko Maric will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39110	Mr. President, Your Honor. So here are the similar questions within the 17 hours of the debate we had recently on the confidence of me as Minister of Finance, as you call it the Christmas loan of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was approved by certain companies in Agrokor's system at 12 months last year, as I will now repeat that decision, of course, was made on the working bodies and professional services of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Each of the cases, I have elaborated it very clearly and in detail in that bank, so I can say to all other institutions that are in the state's authority through certain procedures. And in those procedures no one, and I go first, not that I don't want to, nor will I let anyone get involved. So, each credit party passes at least 20 referents inside the bank, comes to the credit committee, comes to the board of directors, and the Supervisory Board is the one who gives consent. However, in the same way as in all other loans, the responsibility of the bank as well as any other credit institution can be talked about commercially in the Republic of Croatia to provide, of course, instruments adequate to control only the purposeal spending of funds, i.e. the flow of that money. I wouldn't go any further than what I just said, because we're still going into the sphere of those things that go through, but I would say the elements that concern the very operational functioning of the bank. I think that loan and all those loans that are in 12 months are highly collateralized. So there are also insurance instruments that companies actually had to give to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in order to be activated in case of possible non-refunding or non-payments. So we think it's a proper procedure. This was confirmed by the internal services of the bank, and also by some externals within the framework of the audit, and I would really not go. As far as the IRS is concerned, I think it was also quite debated within the Croatian Parliament and generally the general public. I will say very clearly and very responsibly as Minister of Finance, of course at the head of the Ministry of Finance the largest establishment unit within the Ministry of Finance Tax Administration there is doing something over 4,000 people. In the Customs Service, we can certainly say our pens as well as supervisory services, effective tax collection and all public contributions that are actually the source of the state budget, or local budget. The Tax Administration, of course, always has a certain space for improvement and, among other things, in the Tax Administration Act, in the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Finance, which last week was held at a meeting of the Government, we actually envisaged that we should make certain and organisational improvements, but also manageable improvements in order to improve the work. However, I must also say, therefore, the IRS is responsible for doing its job. All her employees and employees are hardworking and hardworking people. I'm not going to talk about cases when they happen, but I'm really behind the whole service. I think they do a very good job and there is not a single taxpayer in the Republic of Croatia with any preferential status. So, within its operational functions, it distinguishes taxpayers whether it is a large Agrokor and individual companies are waving in that system of large taxpayers, but not the only one. There are a whole series of others and they are being followed by continuous control and control measures as well as for all other taxpayers. So, very responsibly, I say there is not a single taxpayer who has any kind of preferential treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39111	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39112	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Minister Maric, I am not happy with your answer at all. I asked you, so not for the loan itself, but everything that was after the loan was and what was before the loan was, so how was the property acquired? Serious countries are working through the Tax Administration research back a lot of time for their subjects. We must clearly meet that standard and yes, we are a country of double criteria. Here was a period of feudal anarchy in Croatian history when the state was weak and when nobles, local feudists did what they wanted, had their armies, forged their money, even usurped the central government to the limit. We have such a situation today and in Croatia. We're here in the feudal age. We have the Todoric Dynasty with the coat of arms, we have our own currency of bona fide, and we have a castle to draw up a little fairy tale, and unfortunately we have farmers. Unfortunately, these are 10,000 workers who work most often for misery for Agrokor. And that's our condition today and our diagnosis. I don't trust you and your government. You claimed you didn't know about the events in Agrokor, which I don't believe either. When I look at you and listen to you, you seem like a very intelligent man to whom it's almost all clear and I think it's impossible that you didn't know especially what you were doing there. As for the government of Mr. Plenkovic, at a secret meeting in the government when he announced to us as presidents of clubs and opposition parties, how lex Agrokor would be brought, he said it would be a wall, which would only be used in case, if by this order of the constitution, the market, the laws. And then repeat the constitution, the market, the laws, don't do your job. But immediately next week, he still hasn't, and Alvarez, who came back then, hasn't managed. So it started in lex Agrokor, it immediately came to the vote, immediately the People's Journals were waiting at a low start to print it. For six days Alvarez was here. I'm not saying he'd do a good job, but it's the constitution, the market and the laws, they didn't even get a chance. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39113	Thank you. The next question is asked by distinguished representative Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39114	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored ministers and ministers of the Croatian government, respected state secretaries. I will ask my question to the Minister of Croatian Defence. Dear Ministers, as part of the defense population, I must conclude that our defense population is getting older every day. So even those young men who started defending their country at the age of 20 today are close to 50. Therefore, I would like to say that our defenders are getting worse, which also confirms the fact that in 2015 there were about 3,000 dead Croatian defenders. My question concerns information, so I'd like to ask you if it's correct. Does the ministry organise systematic checks for Croatian defenders? Can you explain to us what the checks are, how they will be conducted, if they are to be conducted? Who's going to have a right to them? And how long will such checks take place? I think that's what all Croatian defenders are interested in. Many of them are unable to afford such reviews themselves, and I think such reviews should be made possible to everyone, especially because their health is getting worse every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39115	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished Croatian Defence Minister Tom Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39116	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you very much for this question. The Croatian Defence Ministry, because of everything that you have listed in your question, at the highest level of priority, observes and withdraws to this issue. Due to the degree of improvement and mortality of Croatian defenders, we signed a contract in cooperation with the Ministry of Health at the beginning of 2017 with 28 health institutions, which we provided 26 million kuna and for which it is envisaged and in accordance with the technical possibilities of health institutions in 2017 to carry out 33,000 preventive examinations of Croatian defenders, with the aim of early detection of these diseases. As a priority and in our calls, we certainly call on those Croatian defenders, with the greatest struggle of the days spent in the fighting sector. What are certainly worrying data and what is before us all puts an extremely demanding challenge is the answer, how to reduce the improvement and mortality of Croatian defenders, and they are indeed worrying. 54 000 and 440 Croatian defenders died from 1996 to 2017. Four thousand and 73 Croatian defenders died in 2016 alone. In particular, the most endangered group, out of 442 thousand 749 of today's living Croatian defenders are 82 thousand and 889 who are unemployed and have no income whatsoever. Therefore, they are the most vulnerable and most vulnerable and I call on all these Croatian defenders to respond and report to a preventive review to help with their treatment through early detection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39117	Thank you. Dear Representative Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39118	Dear Minister, thank you for this, truly commendable project. I think all Croatian defenders will recognize him and will be pleased that they will still be able to carry out systematic checks and those who may not be able to do so now. I want to say once again, Croatian defenders have entrusted the country and their country needs to thank them safely and in this way. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39119	Thank you. The next question is asked by distinguished MP Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39120	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Ministers and State Secretary. I'm referring my question to the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Gary Cappelli. We are all aware, and so is the strategy for the development of Croatian tourism, that Croatian tourism represents one of the main drivers of the total Croatian economy. Your ministry is also responsible for creating preconditions for the competitiveness of the tourism sector and the Republic of Croatia as a whole. However, we are also witnessing, that we have extremely strong competition, which countries are investing huge assets in the targeted market of the Middle East, the United Arab Emirates. And my question goes exactly that way, given that your ministry is who should sort of take care of it. What are you doing about it? On this issue, your ministry is taking over so that Croatia can make a quality pair and compete in the most demanding markets, not only here in Europe but also in the Middle East, and what has recently been pointed out and Emirata. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39121	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister of Tourism, Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39122	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Mr. Klaric, thank you for asking. You were probably offered this question in view of the first flight of these days which started from Dubai, so from Emirata to Zagreb that will fly every day, so we're talking about the daily flight of Zagreb and Dubai, Zagreb and Dubai, which immediately had 360 passengers on the first flight, so it was full. But before that, I would just say that at this point Croatia is recording the record in tourism, which is that there are over three million arrivals and over nine million overnights, that at this point it is about 14% more than last year at the same time, that the EU's assessment that the growth of tourism at Europe level is about 3%, so you can see how much growth in Croatia is, and it is clear that we are above all the EU averages you've given this year. However, in order not to put us to sleep, if we can say so because we have traditional markets such as Germany, Austria, Italy, Slovenia and Poland that have already come to the fifth place by number of visitors and overnights, so we have not fallen asleep and said that we will address the issues, that tourists "may have come from themselves" because if I can say so in the Mediterranean about arrivals, number of guests and overnights, we are still watching the Development Strategy as you said yourself, the government headed by the Prime Minister gave the same importance of tourism, it is evident that tourism is somewhere around 18% participating in the GDP itself. Of course we had to find a solution to come in line with the 2020 Tourism Development Strategy, which says we must have reached 14.3 billion euros annually from tourism. We are now at a level of 10, so with this increase we have already during these first few months we will come somewhere safe this year between 10% and 12% of tourism growth, which will cause a new 800m euro increase in tourism revenues. So we're going from step to step and by 2020 we would certainly reach a level that is according to the Development Strategy, which is 14.3 billion. In order to achieve this, of course, it will not certainly be a decent market that I mentioned and the increase that we have these days and from France, and from Great Britain thanks to the flights that we have introduced only to Great Britain 20 additional flights, for France about a dozen, Scandinavia ten, so from all the relevant markets that come before and under the season we have increased flights and therefore the increase in traffic is evident. In order to achieve the same thing, and we expect a return to the market for players, market players such as Greece, Turkey, the West Coast of Africa, Egypt, Algeria, Morocco, of course we are preparing for the eastern market, which is the market of China, Japan, South Korea and the whole pool. On the first flight of Emirates, there were 16 citizens who had almost never come from the Far East who had never come to Croatia before, such as India, Pakistan, Vietnam, Taiwan, etc., etc. So we rerouted everyone to those markets. We are working on opening up an office of the tourism community in China, agreeing with our partners, agreeing with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we will probably give some consulate or something like that to open up in Dubai together, and I think it will be a great success to achieve what is expected of us in the new markets by 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39123	Thank you, Minister. Here's a colleague of Claric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39124	... I hope you will continue to promote our market this way. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Perhaps, since I always like to mention our Croatian coast that, within your ministry and government, it is also beginning to reflect on the capacities of the type Haludova on Krk, which is practically abandoned, destroyed by some reckless gestures. There are also spas, let's say when we talk about a wider Croatia in Greater which is practically neglected, and an excellent destination so these things should be considered, when I was preparing for this issue, maybe that vision should change as well, which concerns concessions, for example, Luke Gruz, why someone else charge for the connection when our operators can. So you've run one stopper in that I support you and I thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39125	Thank you. 20 questions, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, raises the question of Agriculture Minister Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39126	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. My question is related to the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to measure 7, even more precisely to measure 7.2.2. i.e. the construction operation of the sorted roads. Namely, the tender for the operation was announced in November of last year, it ended in December of last year. So it's been six months, almost half a year, but the units of local self-government that competed in these competitions still have no idea, they don't know what the dynamics of the evaluation of these competitions are. Local elections themselves contribute to the fact that unfortunately slowed down systems for withdrawing funds from the EU are at local levels. The municipalities and cities need to make budget rebalancing, pre-financing funds should be provided, funds for their own component should be provided, so there are many issues, and unfortunately the answers are very few, times even less. The same thing that applies to measure 7.2.2. applies to measure 7.4. that is to say, it has already been said here about it, and that is how it works for children's kindergartens. So if this government really cares about demographics, then this measure 7.4. can't wait another 6 months because units of local self-government actually need to know what they're on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39127	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39128	Thank you to the honourable representative for asking questions. I agree with you that the measure that is related to the construction of unclassified roads is not realised when we talk about the processing of the achievements... The speed I'd like or the speed you'd like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, it's not some excuse but you're guilty of a good part of you because your party has done these procedures that are catastrophic, we've changed them in new tenders, especially in measure 4.1 and 4.2 will be what I said from the day of the competition to the contract 120 days. And now we have situations that we have solved the contests of the time of Minister Jakovina for two years and unfortunately we have solved them in the term of office of this government. It also happens with unclassified roads but like this, the water and water supply will be published either this week or the beginning of the next and the road through about 15 over 20 days. So here we are, and we're trying to solve it as soon as possible. When we talk about, this part about municipalities and cities for conditionally spoken social infrastructure, homes of fire, social, squares, kindergartens, school halls. The competition is under way, there is enough money provided and for the future and it will be processed in a much faster time than it has ever been before. And I would like to mention once again, that we've put the focus right here on demography, on the construction of kindergartens. I'm not saying we don't need bike paths, it's great, or I don't know, forest roads, or some tourism routes, but it's more important to build kindergartens, school halls, what's connected to our children. And that's what we've given these projects more points. And I expect that there will be a very large part of the money, and here we are talking about this competition of about 390 million kuna that will be spent right on the construction of kindergartens. And once again, I'm saying 100%. So the Republic of Croatia through the rural development programme is financing the construction of kindergartens in rural areas at 100%. Water and sewerage, contracts next week, roads for two to three weeks and this over about two months. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39129	Thank you for the answer. Express your satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39130	Thank you, Mr. Minister, and that eternal question of who's to blame, who's to blame. If we're guilty of something, we're immediately responsible for 90% of the projects, so your government is doing certain things, especially those that are the most numerous financially wealthy. Unfortunately, I don't share optimism that we're going to be able to withdraw so much funding, given that if we look at the rural development programme that weighs 2,83 billion euros, we've pulled below 3% so far. I am afraid, therefore, that by the end of 2018, when the European Commission audit ends, its findings will not be satisfactory for our country and will... be inevitable and then given the current national situation, there will be no more loss of 120 million kuna than about a few billion euros literally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39131	Thank you, Comrade Mathelan. We're moving on to question number 21. Dear counterpart Ivan Šipiš asks Minister Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39132	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Prime Minister and Minister. Here's how it's appreciated Minister, we know it's a matter of European funds, i.e. The withdrawal of funds from the EU funds is an important issue for the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. We know that we have not, in the near past, been an example of withdrawing funds from many EU funds. Today we hear from other ministries positive examples such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds, the Ministry of Economy, crafts and entrepreneurship. Your ministry data from the beginning of the year said there were only 0.06% of agreed projects that should be implemented, i.e. withdrawn from EU funds, which is not commendable. Can you tell us what the Ministry is doing in this sense to change trends, what are current projects, what are your priorities? Because all EU projects that seek to implement your and other ministries directly influence the development of local administrations, local self-government and thus the overall development of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39133	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Representative, you're right when you said that at the beginning of the year the absorption of European funds in the transport sector was very low. However, I must deny you that today is a situation with... different than it was at the beginning of the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the last two months, I've signed seven contracts of total value of $3.48 billion. Of that, the 2.42 billion kuna is irrevocable for projects in the transport sector. Some of these projects are, I will list them, the development of the Dubrovnik airport, in the internal navigation of the construction of a terminal for the transport of scattered cargo in Osijek. In the railway continue financing Long Village-Križevci and construction of the new railway Gradec, St. Ivan Frogno. And today, our colleague, Regional Development Minister Gabriela Žalac, takes over the Decision on the financing of the project of all projects, which is the construction of a road connection project with southern Dalmatia and the Peljega Bridge. After taking that decision next week, we will sign a grant agreement, and among other things, a call for the procurement of buses in public urban transport of the total value for large cities worth 300 million kuna was announced on 31 May. There is also an announcement of the invitation to tender for the financing of the Adriatic ports of 150 million kuna, and by the end of the year we plan to arrange all major railway projects. A competition to perform works was launched on Wednesday, which is the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Zaprešić-Zabok railway, and reconstruction and construction of the Vinkovci-Vukovar railway. When we add it all together, what we have agreed with the Pelješki Bridge and these projects that I have stated, by the end of this year in the transport sector, a total of around 8 billion kuna will be agreed, somewhere at 80% of the total funds allocated from the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion for the transport sector. In addition, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is the coordinator of the Connecting Europe Facility, etc. CEF. Here we are, on the second call we are granted 346m euros for projects of Križevci, Koprivnica, Hungarian border in the railway, for construction of the container terminal in Rijeka, Zagreb port, construction of the Svilaj bridge, and on the third call we reported 22 transport projects and we are looking for, where we are looking for, a total of 145m euros. There is the most important project of the D403 road in Rijeka, the upgrade of the Luka Rijeka infrastructure and the construction of a terminal for the reception of dangerous cargo at the river port of Slavonski Brod, etc. In other words, I personally express my satisfaction that we have launched many projects, and what I am most pleased about today is that Minister Žalac takes over, which is the Prime Minister last week and announced, a decision on the financing of the project of all projects, road connection with southern Dalmatia for which the tender for the second-degree work was launched last Wednesday and runs until 17. Seven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39135	Thank you, Minister. Here's my colleague, Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39136	... Thank you, Mr. Minister, indeed these data that you have presented are more than encouraging, show that this ministry is also taking care of one full equal work of the Republic of Croatia from the south, north, east because as I noticed in your presentation, short, project-listing, this is a whole series of projects, and this is the crown connecting the south and the rest of the Republic of Croatia often mentioned project of the Pelješko Bridge. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] For every commendation is your engagement, but also the involvement of the entire government. In the end I'll just say, that's what interests Croatian citizens, that's, that's that, with economic growth, development, social care, demographics etc., that's what all of us from the local community are looking forward to. Such projects, such projects and will allow further growth to take place, but also create new jobs. Because you said yourself, the project of the Peljega Bridge more than 400m euros, it generates new growth in the area, new employment. New tourism, new hope I would say south and all of Croatia. In this regard, continue as you started and I believe that everything will stay on healthy feet because it is a future and not a populist and demagogue approach that they have heard in this election cycle these days. These are the stories that encourage and thank you very much for this exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39137	Thank you, too. Question number 22, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39138	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I welcome the Prime Minister and members of the government. My question concerns the area of environmental protection, so specifically waste management, but I don't think the Secretary of State will be able or should not be able to answer, so it is actually addressed to the Prime Minister. So, in January of this year we brought the Waste Management Plan for 2017-2022, the feature of this Plan compared to the previous one is that there are a lot of Circular Economy Specifics, therefore, going towards strengthening the system of re-use, recycling and on the burden of disposal, i.e. the Centres for Waste Management. Such a policy, i.e. this plan, is fully in line with what Croatia signed in the accession contract because it has set objectives, as well as in accordance with the Sustainable Waste Management Act, which we also adopted in accordance with the European Waste Directive 3.4 years ago. Furthermore, it is in line with the increased efforts to build a resource-efficient society in Europe, which is what we call a circular economy or a circular economy. It is therefore clear that this is a good document to be followed, what has now recently happened is a decision that actually defines steps and is actually the basis for implementation, therefore, of all those measures that have been outlined in the plan, and many, are mainly about measures in line with the plan. However, what is causing one of my concerns and I am therefore referring to the question is that certain waste management centres have grown, however, and I am curious whether this is a sign of giving up on the concept of circular management or something else. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39139	Thank you. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39140	Thank you very much. Representative Dobrović, you have worked for a year and a half and on plan and on all other decisions and in dialogue with the European Commission with an interested public and with all those involved in the wisest way of implementing the concept of a circular economy which today is a trend in Europe. As far as your question is concerned, the government has made decisions on the implementation of the waste management plan, and we have also made decisions agreed in dialogue with the European Commission. One is the one referring to the Centre for Waste Management of Pishkornica. So when it comes to that, and you know it well that you participated in a dialogue that seemed to me about April 15th, 20th where it was agreed to go to a concept relating to six counties. So, regional center. The second is confirmation of the Waste Management Centre in Lečevica. It was also agreed to the Commission while you were minister in a way that naturally required the creation of a feasibility study. In addition, when you say whether the facilities of the Waste Management Centre are increasing or not. The only thing that's changed, so the answer is no, but the only thing that's changed is the proportion of impurities in recycled substances. So there was a certain correction in view of certain assessments that had been made earlier. However, both documents were confirmed by the European Commission. The decisions we have made in recent weeks have met the two ex-ante conditions set by the European Commission for the withdrawal of funds when it comes to waste management. And what's most important, and that's what we talked about at the government's session, was also an incentive fee. The less triage the fee is higher, the bigger the triage the fee is smaller. So the plan itself and all decisions that we have made afterwards follow the logic of the key documents adopted by the government, which are on the trail of greater environmental protection, better quality management and waste management and, of course, waste management centres that will be long-term sufficient, sustainable, and when it comes to the financial aspect, and thus solve the problems that many of our environments have, and you have, together with me, had a number of meetings in many parts of Croatia, and I believe that as an expert on this area, you will continue to contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39141	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39142	Thank you very much. So, I would like to warn you of one thing that the lack of ambition in the strict implementation of the separate collection plan opens up an automatic space for stakeholders who like the large capacities of the Center for the Treatment of Mixed Waste. Thus, it demobilizes the public for participation in a separate collection system. And what will be the result? That we're still going to drive 250,000 tons of paper just as many tons of plastics to the dump, or one day to the centers that will turn it into a worthless RDF. So we have to go in the opposite direction. In this sense, I encourage all those responsible in Croatia to go in this direction, to allow the transfer of this material to useful raw materials. Because I remind you that our plasticists, our craftsmen, import large quantities of recycling from Germany, Austria, because it simply does not exist in Croatia. It is not because we have not provided a way to separate it, to go into sorting lines, so recycling centres that would have to break through Croatia very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39143	Thank you, too. We are moving to question 23. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic is asking the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39144	Thank you. Prime Minister Plenkovic, try to bring the majority together. It's legal, it's legitimate. It's not working for you right now, but probably because no one's going with you. You're offering ministries and ministerial chairs and it's legal and totally legitimate. It fits into a concept of a commercial democracy that is close to you. But you're offering money for one vote in the House, not your money, not even HDZ's money, but government money, taxpayers' money, all of us's money. You want to pay your pensions to the members of the HVO. No one knows how many of them they'll be. I expect that the moment you start paying off those pensions, the number of HVO members will grow to an unsuspecting extent. They haven't worked here in days, they haven't paid, they've paid in the Peace Fund, they haven't paid in taxes, but they'll get a pension. Croatian pensioners who have worked here for 40 years will continue to dig through containers with their poor pensions, but members of the HVO won't have to. They'll get pensions. We'll pay them off. My question is, Prime Minister, how much will you take for the Croatian pensioners to buy that one single parliamentary hand?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39145	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39146	Okay, thanks a nice fellow Stazic. I appreciate your interest in consistent implementation of interstate contracts. The members of the HVO also participated in the defence war and we can be grateful for what Damir and Tomo would say to watch their backs. In 2006, Croatia signed an interstate agreement that is in force, there is a certain obligation and there are certain debts to members of the HVO. There are 6815 of them, decisions to pay back back pensions, made by the government before me, so before my government, our government. And what we have done has nothing to do with the situation since 27 April, it has to do with the earlier announced decisions and preparations made by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to start paying off these back-up pensions. And we will fulfill those obligations according to the principle of the Pacta sant servanda. We'll fill them with good faith because we think it's a good thing. So that's where you use the word "political trade." I'd like to demystify a little bit of the illusions that you and your colleagues are trying to impute into public space, as if it were agreeing amongst the parties, after the election in the political system, what is our system, the scale system, the ten electoral units, and the objectively very difficult situation, that someone gets 76 MPs himself. As strong as you are or some other or trusted in your own optimism, I'm afraid, and that shows our practice, that it's very difficult for someone to reach 76 MPs, only on the basis of the voter's will. I think we can agree on that. In your opinion, all post-election talks include talks on coalitions that your party has also led in different situations, then subject to political trade. I don't think so. I think we need to make that clear to the public. People get a mandate, parties get a mandate, have certain platforms, programmes, and then talk to those they want to co-operate with for general benefit. Both you and I have been chosen with the same goal, MP Stazic. We're trying to figure out which configuration, which most of it can work. You think it's, say, a deal about a major coalition in Germany political trade. Is the agreement in the European Parliament between the liberals and the peoples and conservatives, political trade in the middle of the mandate, and it started two and a half years ago, as a major agreement between the peoples and the Socialists, progressive if you will. Is that a political trade, too? Now, to put in our still, I would say young people, in terms of democratic institutions and traditions of political space, all the talks between those parties that have the legitimacy of voters in the context of some trade with a pessimistic omen, that's not good, because it's not realistic that we don't negotiate, we in the current assembly, in the former or in some future. And that's the key, and we're going to demystify it. And when it comes to the pensions of members of the HVO, we are the only one who fulfils our obligation in good faith and in accordance with international contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39147	Thank you. Thank you very much. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39148	No crossing, I don't think that after the coalition's election they're political trade. And I didn't even ask you that. You went to meet this, as you say legal obligations, only when you lost the parliamentary majority and when you needed votes in the House. Well, I'm just hoping that those members of the HVO who are, for example, Killing women and children in Ahmići to get a slightly bigger pension. The youngest victim was only 3 months old and was a great danger for both Croatia and Croatia. Perhaps it is your turn to reward the child's murderers adequately with that pension, the blood you pay with an attempt to get to the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39149	Yes, we move forward with the work, question number 24, distinguished colleague Zeljko Raguž, will ask Minister Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39150	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Croatian representatives, Croatian Prime Minister, Ministers and Ministers in the Croatian Government, Minister Ćorić. We all know that at the annual level in the Republic of Croatia, tens of thousands of seasonal workers have been hired. Among them is one number from the BIH. They work in agriculture, construction, tourism. My question to Corico is. What activities you have taken or taken within the Ministry, that employers on the Croatian labour market have at their disposal the required number of seasonal workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39151	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39152	Thank you for asking, Agent Ragug. So as you know, we have generally been in the problem of the lack of qualified workforce in the Republic of Croatia in the first 7 months of our term of office through several measures, or several moves. First of all, new active employment policies include requalification processes, i.e. requalifications, which we are trying to fill in the gap that occurs on the labour market every year in the context of seasonal employment. Our activities also went in the direction of increasing the quota, i.e. imports of labour for 2017 compared to previous years and quotas for this year were more than 7,000 persons. What should certainly be emphasized is this. At this point, around 24,000 and 500 people are employed in Croatia in seasonal affairs, some 15 and a half thousand in tourism jobs. We hope that by the end of the 6th month that number will grow further. What that confirms is the fact that we actually have about 40,000 employees on seasonal jobs every year, so there's room for increases, and we keep track of it from day to day. I would point out in response to your question that at this point on HZMO we have a million and 503 thousand 700 insured persons, so we broke through a million-and-a-half employees, and this was the last time in the Republic of Croatia in 2010, so in the last seven years, it was the first time. What I want to emphasise is that we organised three tourism fairs in cooperation with HZZ in the context of our activities in seasonal affairs, especially tourism jobs in the month of March of this year. One of them was held in Osijek and covered the area of Slavonia and Baranja, one held in Zagreb, covered the territory of the central part of Croatia and finally held third in the town of Knin and covered the area of Dalmatian counties. More than 13,000 people visited these tourism business fairs, with employers from above all hotel jobs offering over 6900 jobs. We believe that such a combination of measures from active employment policy measures on the one hand through part of the settlement of needs through tourism business fairs, but also business fairs such as those held in eight cities this year, and finally also by increasing the quota for certain interests, so that such a combination of measures can successfully pair the problem of labour shortages that Croatia usually occurs during the summer months or during the season. What should certainly be strengthened in the coming period is the absorption of active employment policy measures. For this reason, for 2017, we envisaged about a billion and a half kuna in the framework of an active employment policy measure. A good part of these funds is currently heading towards the requalification and qualification of domestic labour forces, as well as for the measure of permanent season which is very current in the tourism sector, but also for all seasonal jobs that employers, but also not employees, are stimulated by entering a working relationship in this working relationship in some way to stay out of the season. This measure is most used, for example, in the Istrian County, but also more and more in Dalmatian counties that are currently recording this great seasonality among their employees. So a whole series of activities that are primarily aimed at calming the needs of the Croatian labour market during the season or during the summer months. In the coming years, given the trends, given above all the shown projections of GDP growth, we expect an increase in labour demand. So how do we calm her down? We'll smell it exactly as I said in part through active employment policy measures, or mostly because 176 thousand employees suggest that there is space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39154	I would like to thank the Minister for the content response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39155	Thank you very much. We move on to 25 questions, distinguished counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic raises the question to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Plenkovic. By reading the portals and following how the media conveys this debate, you can't get the impression that we're like in a soap balloon, that we live in some parallel world where the question is on the lips of all our citizens, do you have a majority, do you have legitimacy in this House. So I like to quote, so let's quote one title: "What can Plenkovic show ministers and most of them or break this farce". But this is not a farce and I have a very important question for you, since in your term of office, your mandate has ended and started with one company that is extremely important for Croatia's future, the second is Agrokor, and the first is INA. On Christmas Eve last year, so more than six months ago you announced the takeover of INA by MOL, the takeover of INA back into Croatian hands, you set up a commission, a council, you announced big plans, but from these plans you still didn't see anything in this House, nor did the Croatian public see anything. It was a big topic at the beginning of this year, but suddenly it was quieted down, no longer mentioned, and the INA was all forgotten. My question, of course, do you have most of Mr. Plenkovic, how many times did the INA Council meet, which conclusions have been made, what are the projections and plans of your government for the INA if your government will survive at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39157	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39158	Thank you very much. As regards INA, Col. Hajdukovic, therefore, the council met twice, the professional services of all relevant ministries involved in the process are working on a thorough analysis of the model that would be applied at the time of the final formal decisions on the return of INA to Croatian hands in a way that firstly makes a thorough analysis and evaluation of the company's evaluation, in order to examine the legal framework in detail given the specific regulations which the Hungarian state regulates the value of the state's shares in MOL, which is an additional issue that requires a specific analysis. There is also a thorough analysis of how and how to hire the best consultants to help us in this process, so this kind of transaction must be done with renowned international advisers to help the Croatian government find the best funding model and find the most appropriate way to evaluate the company and ultimately the price itself. The dialogue with the Hungarian side has been continued on this subject as well as on a number of other topics. Everything the advice does, it works within normal functioning and resor. When we estimate that the circumstances are mature for further formal decisions, then we will make other decisions at government level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39159	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Plenkovic. Mr. Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Plenkovic. Well, I think the analysis should be done before some action is announced. So first the analysis, first the planning and then the announcement and then the big plans. At least that's how I'd do it. And two meetings in six months, all I can say is that it's an expedition. I can see very hard and expedient since here, I'm saying we didn't hear anything specifically. And I haven't heard a specific answer or whether you have a majority because we know the answer, you don't. And that's why I, as the great Marco Porcia Caton, who spoke at the end of every speech, still think the Cartago should be destroyed, until you show us most of the speech or resign every speech in this House, I think, besides, Mr Plenkovic, that your government has no legitimacy, no legitimacy of this great House, stop farce or show the majority or travel in a direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39161	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. Next question, dear colleague Rechimer Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39162	Dear Deputy President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government. Dear Prime Minister, I have a question for you. Namely, prompted by the events in Vinkovci that we talked about before, not long ago, the latest case in Pula that causes public dissuasion and this is about a system of social care that in some ways carries out surveillance, brings some solutions but does not solve the problem. That's what's going to happen to us all the time. For almost two decades, we have been talking about decentralisation of social services, which would redistribute the function of the central level of counties, cities and municipalities. This centralisation envisioned the adoption of the development of a social services system that would be in line with local objectives and needs. The decentralisation of the social care centre is primarily due to this. It is not enough not only to exercise control, nor can the State do so from that level, nor has it the capacity to carry out it on a timely and regular basis through inspections. And there's no big use in that surveillance because they wouldn't be repeated and there wouldn't be a relapse of such cases if that surveillance was good. Namely, to cut it short. I think it is time to adopt a new legislation necessary for the process of fiscal, administrative and functional decentralisation of social care, social care systems. So I ask you a question, is the Government planning to decentralise the welfare system, to what extent and what are further steps, thank you, to the announced new Social Care Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39163	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Varda. And the answer, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Mr Plenkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39164	Representative Vada, I agree with you in awe over a case which unfortunately took place in Pula and it is a great warning of the functioning or the lack of good functioning of all competent institutions and social care systems. You have well stated that the concept of decentralisation of the social care system with us in public space has been in legal acts since '98. In the meantime, if we had adopted certain laws and used certain European funds in pre-accession times to improve the social care system, we would have also gone through the social care development strategy adopted in 2011 and for 2011-'16 for further decentralisation. This further decentralisation is certainly one of the main directions led by Minister Nada Murganic, who responded very closely to this particular case by directing supervision and seeking to clarify the responsibility of the relevant services. It is important for us to strengthen the competences of lower local and regional units in social activity in the decentralisation process, which is one of the objectives of the strategy. We want more quality social action planning in local communities, greater involvement in the social actions of civil society actors, as well as the overcoming of certain parallelisms and non-connections that exist in certain social care schemes, especially in major cities. We believe that the availability of social services should be at the same level to all citizens wherever they live. Therefore, in the activities ahead of us, first of all within the framework of legislative activity or operational functioning, we will link the state level, the county level, the city level in order to define precisely the powers, responsibilities and founding rights. And also in the context of fiscal decentralisation, which is a wider activity of strengthening the capacity of unit management of local and regional self-government to provide adequate resources that, with key human capacities, would allow all centres at a lower level of quality functioning that would primarily lead to the system being sufficiently controlled, sufficiently up-to-date and effective enough to avoid tragedies like this one we had in Pula. I will ask Minister Murganic to give you one written, detailed statement, since it is a topic of the current which deserves one elaborated expert and political position of the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39165	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Dear colleague Rechimer Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39166	I thank Mr. Prime Minister for feeling that from your exposure that you too realize that the modern and social state is as strong as it has managed to develop a local social state, and I thank you for the prewritten notice, Ms. Murganic, regarding the case in Pula. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39167	I thank my colleague Vardi. Next to ask questions, distinguished counterpart Drazen Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39168	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, Mr Minister and Secretary of State, here today, on several occasions, it was about Agrokor, the effects of Agrokor's crisis, etc. crisis. We have also said on our part as representatives, we have noticed each and every one in our own way what we hear, what we read, what not only the workers, the workers of Agrokora, but also those in the system of Agrokora as intermediaries, or suppliers, producers, but few talk about some side effects, i.e. companies affected by the business or possible collapse of Agrokor. I will today identify myself with my question according to a large company called Petrochemy, which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, and which thanks to or thanks to the difficult policy that has been under way and over the past decades has come into a very difficult situation, so now it has even been stopped and production, but it has been established by the quick reaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it has been restarted. Today, however, we have a situation where this company, which is burdened with major problems and debt, is also a major bait for privatisation, which is the work of 1650 workers, is still the largest giant in Sisak-Moslavina County, especially in Kutina, which produces about a million and 200 thousand tonnes of fertilisers per year, out of which 70% is exports, so one of the largest exporters in Croatia, thus representing in a very depressed county, or in one part of Croatia where the war is devaished, is therefore a question of life. Therefore, my question today was addressed to the Minister of State Property, Mr Goran Maric. What is your long-term solution and what do you expect from the planned recapitalisation because you recently announced a call for indicative demonstration of the interest of the capitalisation of Petrochemia, and how does the government intend to help not only Petrochemia, Kutina, Moslavina but to keep the entire Sisak-Moslavina County or to save currently 1650 jobs in Petrochemia?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39169	I thank my esteemed colleague Barisic. Mr Goran Maric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39170	Thank you very much, counsel Barisic. Petrochemy is not on the list of companies of strategic interest on the list of 49 companies but as a business entity it is very important for the economy not only of the Kutina and the County of Sisak-moslavina, but also for the entire economy of Croatia. It is rare that the city is so dependent on the economic and the number of employees on a business entity like Kutina is dependent on Petrochemia because you said it yourself, for more than 1600 employees. In the past, Petrochemy has been among the world's 10 largest artificial fertiliser producers for 50 years. Unfortunately, today the situation is completely different. It has changed on the market but has changed much more in Petrokemia, for 20 years Petrokemia has been in difficulty. The difficulties are multiple and different, they were both at the political and ownership level and at the management level. And one line of common links between these political management and ownership levels so far has been irresponsible and improvisation. This government has taken this problem seriously for the first time, and not only when it comes to paying salaries or jeopardising the delivery of gas suppliers but systematically solving the problem. Not recently, not in the campaign, but recently the Prime Minister himself, Deputy Prime Minister and I, were visiting Petrochemy, familiarized with this situation, the illustration works, on two billion kunas of income is a total debt of one billion kuna. There is no production business process in this part of Europe paying on its 9% interest rate as paid by Petrochemy. And there's no production subject who can handle it. When interest rates are at historically low levels and production companies get up to 1% maximum, Petrochemy pays and 9.5% on its debts, and it cannot be solved by magic overnight because it is the result of a long-standing relationship with Petrochemy. What is fortunate, in Petrochemia, is that mastering technological processes, innovation and monitoring of the production process has never been questioned and that is very quickly possible adjustment, and giving and approval of loans so far has always been considered a lasting solution and can never be a lasting solution, it can be just a solution as a premise for a long-term solution to Petrochemija is an exit and it has long had to go through the capitalisation process. A model of capitalisation has been developed, will be offered to foreign investors. Happiness would be greater if there were more strategic investors, not just one. This government shows that it cares about such business entities, the retention of production and employment, and that Petrochemy is returned to a happy path and sound basis and that it is a business entity that will benefit itself and the employees and the state. But this government has shown by its relationship to production, that the economy that protects production is very different. Because it is not the same to trade products that you have produced or traded with imported products in trade chains or to trade shares on stock exchanges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39171	I thank the Honorable Minister, Mr. Goran Maric. Mr. Barisic, thank you. Next in line to ask a representative's question, distinguished colleague Darko Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, State Secretary. So here, in 2017, aware of the facts and in the inability to repair in any way one anomaly, one major mistake that took place in the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, we still return to our overall regrets the debts of one project, one contest that we would say to revive it, but it has produced such debts that the institution, which, at this point in time, is not able to settle the debts that the extra- budget institution has produced three years after the competition. So my question is for the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, but not now about what used to happen and what was happening at the Environmental Protection Fund, but exactly the question is focused on what is the subject of work and intensity and should be the intensity of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. So at this point we are aware of the fact that they have opened up, I would say and successfully close two energy-efficient competitions, aware of the fact that we are implementing action plans that are being verified by the EU and a project of energy reconstruction of multiple housing buildings for which nearly 152 million kuna is intended. Another project, therefore, energy recovery and the use of renewable energy sources in public institutions that carry out the activities of education and education also with dedicated funds of 152 million kuna. So at this point, the contests are closed. The question is whether they're preparing a new one. What happens to those buildings and energy efficiency that won't get into these projects. And what particularly interests the Croatian public is the source of funding for all these projects?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39173	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato. Mr. Lovro Kustević's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39174	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues of ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Here's a thank you for asking. You have well concluded in the introduction that the irresponsible policy backwards for four, five years of management of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has led to a blockade of the work of that fund. In fact, I would say that for pre-election purposes, contracts, promises and the fund have been concluded to the extent that they cannot implement that policy that they must implement. Here we are, of course, as the responsible Government has seen the situation and to avoid the lawsuits that have threatened us and to continue all these projects before I think two weeks ago at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a decision has been made to extend this programme and to ensure a new 160 million kuna for its implementation. But as you said, these were all national funds, funds that we had to pay from the budget of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Thank God, we looked at the government and the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. We have seen how we can finance these programmes from European funds. That's where we found two ways. One is the energy restoration of multi-state buildings, the other is the energy restoration of buildings dealing with education and education. This is where we predicted for both these two programmes 150 million kuna and we made two calls with each worth 150 million kuna. But when we closed the competition, we were pleasantly surprised. Here, I'll be free to present some figures. In fact, we received 649 applications asking for 939 million kuna, i.e. 560 million kuna of grants, and 781 million kuna was required for educational institutions, i.e. 348 million kuna of grants. We immediately sat down with colleague Gabriela Žalac, we saw that he really had the funds, we increased the location, and a few days ago I signed a decision to increase the location, which means that all those who met the tender documentation, the tendering terms of the money, and that means 596 more residential buildings totaling 930 million kuna and 223 schools and kindergartens will total 780 million kuna. So, thanks to these projects in the next 18 months, 1,000 workshops will be opened in the Republic of Croatia, a billion and 700 million kuna will be invested from which our ministry, i.e. The government through EU funds to finance with 900 million kuna. That's not all. Of course we'll continue our projects. In fact, about two months ago, the government adopted a Programme for Energy Reconstruction of Public Sector Buildings where not only educational institutions but all social buildings were adopted. So municipal buildings, county buildings, museums, religious-owned buildings, firehouses, etc. For this purpose, we envisioned 50m euros in the first call. After the government has adopted the programme now, my ministry with the Environmental Protection Fund is working out so tender conditions, the text of the competitions, and we expect that call by the end of the year. But here, and that is not all, soon we expect at the end of the year or early next year and a call call for family homes. Here we have secured 30m euros, grants, and now only with negotiations with the European Commission on amendments to the directive. When this directive is amended, and we have a firm promise that it will be by the end of this year, we can expect the launch of competitions and family homes early next year, I repeat, worth 30 million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39175	I thank the minister, Mr. Lovra Kuštević. Dear colleague Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39176	Dear Minister, all that you have said is encouraging and I wish you good luck and in revitalising the construction operation, which I hope here, with the Croatian workforce, will succeed all of this and carry out and wish you a lot of happiness and success, especially in the recovery of the budget of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39177	I thank my esteemed colleague, Darka Horvato. Next to ask a question, MP respected counterpart Marko Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39178	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, esteemed ministers and ministers in the government, State Secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I will refer the question to the Minister of Science and Education, Mr Pavi Barisic, and it is related to vocational education. Dear Ministers, we are aware that the maladjustment of the educational programmes of the labour market is one of the permanent objections to the state of the education system in the Republic of Croatia. It is known that over 70% of students attend vocational schools. I am, and I am sure of the wider Croatian public, interested in what you are doing to make students of vocational schools on the labour market come with special and appropriate knowledge and skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39179	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Simic. Answer, dear fellow minister, Professor Pavo Barisic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39180	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government. I thank the honourable representative for this matter. As far as vocational education is concerned, it is certainly one of the most important segments, which relate to the overall reform of education and you have well noticed that it is the most unadjusted programmes that are well-adjusted and which we are seeking to take through a series of measures as part of the programme of development of vocational education in the period from 2016 to 2020, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in December last year the government also adopted an action plan on this basis. Through a series of measures, we seek to make it easier to enroll in professional programmes and what is particularly important, to make more attractive vocational education programmes, since it has been observed, as you have said in the Republic, the representation of the vocational education programme is over 70%, but in the last few years, it is a tendency in decline, mild decline. It is still significantly above the European average, i.e. the EU average, which is 49% but certainly needs these programmes and innovations and is part of a series of 26 curriculas, vocational education that have been in use so far, experimentally since the next school year 2017. – 2018, 19 are introduced into regular use. They thus respond to the needs of the market. Through a series of measures, together with the Ministry of Economy, the economy of craftsmanship, the Croatian Employers' Association and together on one operational team made it easier to register and adapt to the market, so that it can react more quickly to the necessary records. A recent example was, when we were at a school in Glina, where the employer sought and the school required the ministry to open a new programme. The ministry reacted quickly and I try to make the whole system more flexible and flexible. I would like to say that in this context, together with the European Centre for the Development of Professional Education, we have been involved in a series of five countries, which are conducting a deep analysis of the development of apprenticeship. This is what the Centre has spent so far for Malta and Lithuania, and now Croatia among the 5 countries, which are cooperating and in this part we also had a visit to the director of this centre last week, which was very commendable on our programmes, and in this part the Republic of Croatia is available for promotion and development of professional programmes from European funds for the regional development of the European Social Fund, available for billions and 117 million kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39181	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear colleague Marko Šimić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39182	Thank you for your response. And I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, recognised the problems of the education system, and I sincerely believe that, as soon as possible, we will give concrete answers and solutions to its improvement, especially in the direction of adapting education programmes to the labour market, and thus enable employers and the real sector to hire and hire professional and quality workers, who will improve the business of their employers and thus enable them to participate in the greatest economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39183	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Simic. The next is for the parliamentary issue, distinguished counterpart Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39184	Thank you, Vice President. I will refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, simply for the reason I believe he can answer the most fully. Namely, it is a very slow or no realisation of certain programmes of rural development measures, meaning the construction of public water supply systems, the construction of unclassified roads, the construction of social infrastructure where tenders were announced during last year and still, it has been about 4, 6, 8 months without results. This is about European money, and these are projects that are extremely important for not only the local self-government unit means both measure 6 and measure 7 and for agricultural production. I'd put in particular an accent, although I know the topic is extremely complex, it's about the E-impulse Ministry of Economy. Last year, the tender was opened from 21 July to 30 September, administrative checks were carried out, then a second check is now under way to assess the likely acceptability of the applicant of the project, etc. When we look at dates, it takes over eight months, it runs for nine months. It's about certain investments, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, it's about new jobs and I don't know, I personally think that certain things could be done better, speeded up. So I'm interested in Prime Minister, which is why you, or the government, are intending to do in general with your resolute ministers, to make this very European money as quickly as possible absorbed or to launch investments? No need to speak, we are all aware of the facts and moments that this is extremely important for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39185	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Batinić. Prime Minister Plenkovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39186	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Batinic. So regardless of these several programmes you mentioned, one of the main objectives is to accelerate efficiency in terms of the absorption of EU funds, especially in the middle of this financial perspective. So we are now exactly at the end, or close to the fourth year of our membership, and three and a half years of financial perspective, its revision is ongoing. We have, of course, determined that absorption is not on the level that it should be. One of the methodological innovations that we have made is that at each other session of the Government, at the closed session of the Minister of Regional Development of European Funds, Žalac reports exactly on each operational programme what is the barometer of the use of funds, at which the phase of the projects, which we have done to speed up the procedure. And on that trail, we have made a series of improvements concerning the reduction of internal steps at the level of the administration to make decisions on the realisation of individual funds. Secondly, we help make quality acceptable projects, so we also have this aspect that is important. And the third is that the overall efficiency of all relevant resolutions, the entire administration, all partners at local and regional level has been continuously increased in terms of new human capacities. We have made several such decisions in recent times in the government because it has been seen that certain ministries are not sufficiently quality-accepted when it comes to people who would well-produce certain projects. Sometimes the acceleration of this procedure, and the reduction of these steps, is not in line with the rules that the European Commission has made very thoroughly, just so that it can control the efficient use of European funds. What seems important to me is precisely in light of the fact that Minister Žalac today is in Brussels, that a special event at which the Commissioner for Regional Development Corina Cret is at, that Croatia has received 85% of the grant to finance the Pelješko bridge as so far unique in terms of the amount of funds, and I would say also of strategic importance for Croatia's project that will connect the southern part of Dubrovnik-Neretva County with the rest of Croatia, showed the Croatian public how concrete these European funds are, how much they add value to all our activities. About this, Minister Butkovic said, and you saw this information yesterday about an additional 101m euros related to broadband Internet in those parts of Croatia where there is no commercial interest in building infrastructure. So these two projects show you that it's one of the main focus of the government of all resistors. I think a lot of progress has been made by a number of ministries, that we've reduced the number of bodies implemented by the corridors that we don't have one... two rather than if it's possible to be one. There is a difference in practice within the framework of certain operational programmes, but the overall impression is that absorption capacity is going up. There is no discount on any portfolio, the financial perspective will last another 3.5 years, and rule N+3 gives us the obligation to use those 10.6 billion euros by 2023, and we will work on it, and every constructive contribution by you as representatives, units of local and regional self-government and other actors is welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39187	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Dear colleague Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39188	So my question was believe and has been an intensities among other things, not only a question but also an intention to take additional measures and steps by the government and you personally and resolute ministries. Because when you look at these measures when you talk about those who are eligible applicants in a given mandate, let's call it 4 years, possibly with the best conditions, with as few administrative barriers as possible, you can run at an average of 1.5 projects of that kind of nature, I think we know very well what it means for applicants, so I say once again that I believe you will include other resolution ministries where certain legal procedures should be corrected, correct exactly with the goal of getting as much European money as possible, that I am not saying what it means for the realisation of the budget, which means for GDP and all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39189	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić. The following is next in line for parliamentary issues, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39190	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Vice-President, the Minister, the Secretary of State. My question concerns the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And here I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he can respond to the fact that most of the projects listed in the table published on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development, the EU funds to have projects that have opened a public call, means for applicants at the time and Milanovic's Government, closed some, decisions made, made on a number of projects also at the time of the same government. A number of projects have also opened public calls under Oreshkovic's government. So now there's really no idea where those projects are from when the official project Slavonia was being run since October 18th last year as they were on that table. And what I am interested in is whether the European Commission is in agreement with the fact that projects financed from the operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion and rural development programmes can simultaneously be reported and displayed under the name of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you very much, that's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39191	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. The Prime Minister's reply, Mr. Plenkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39192	Thank you. You are a representative of one of the two constituencies and represent our people from Vukovar-Srijem County and I believe you are as much interested as all our Slavons, Baranci, Srijemci, Podravci to gather no matter what political party you belonged to, at which level the authorities acted, all of our forces to improve the situation in Slavonia. You've just done a campaign for the mayor. I've been in Slavonia many times and in all five Slavonian counties, the mood is the same. What is the goal of the Slavonia project concept? The idea of the Slavonia project is to unite just all activities that we are doing at national level, which we are working on in the context of withdrawing funds from the EU, which are also working on units of local and regional self-government, carried out by regional development agencies in all counties and given a political label, give it the importance of priorities. All the projects, started tomorrow, two days ago, three years ago, five years ago, if they have some European dimension and you know it well, you were a minister, you don't last one day, you don't last one month, you last one longer period of time. Our political goal was in last parliamentary campaign that at the end of the third decade of Croatian independence we must put an emphasis on Slavonia, put an emphasis on the east of Croatia. You, as I recall, took part in our first council meeting as well as other parliamentary deputies, were invited absolutely everyone and will be invited again. The next meeting will be in Požega, I expect you to participate there, the last time here was I think 11 ministers or their assistants, state secretaries, where we have shown that we are equally concerned with agriculture and regional development and the environment and better quality management of state property and economy and all resolutions that contribute to the development of eastern Croatia. And you were in the campaign somewhere saying something about whether some projects were right after the 18th 10th or before, I don't think it matters. What is important is that you, as a representative, contribute to the realization of this project, contribute to the fact that our people in Slavonia can stay in their regions, in their cities, municipalities, on your country, create economic and social conditions to prevent the trend of moving young families out of Slavonia because this is, among other things, a key political goal. To do that, all the projects that will contribute to any of the resources and sectors that I mentioned are part of that framework that we are building and that we have created. If it were not for that, we would not be aware of how much this is done in certain restaurants, nor would our people in Slavonia be aware of how much it is invested in Slavonia. And we will continue on that trail. I expect the Croatian Parliament to contribute to this through the participation of MPs. We decided on the last, first advice and before this second, that its second content should be thematic, that we should select several areas that will be priority and where the competent ministers and all the other and mayors and representatives and leaders of the agencies will be able to put on the table everything that is important at this point and what they do in each sector. Therefore, I expect you and the former minister and representative to support this project and to actively engage in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39193	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39194	Thank you very much I cannot be satisfied with the answer because in the end we would all agree together and agree that the promemory, as it is written, is actually the only document on which the whole project is based, it has a few pages and I am taking hold of that first item which is also the most important to all of us who come from the area of Slavonia and Baranja and Srijema and it is whether we will have special points on public calls related to a particular topic, or we will only have a special public call for applicants from our area. However, I cannot agree that from a general call, the projects that someone has made in the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema become an integral part of a third document, so we do not create one added value that we are all together supporting and establishing your government has agreed that it is very important. Therefore, I do not at all raise the question of the "Slavonia Baranja and Srijem" project in what is written in that promotion itself, however, this realization, and looking at now and new public calls, especially at rural development measures, where I do not see any single point that applies exclusively to any applicant in the area that we are talking about. Therefore, we expect this project to be implemented in full, to be in all components and not to be a project that could also be created by Slavonia, a project of Dalmatia or anything if we just grouped, publicly, in fact, applicants who made a specific project on any public call. I think here and you said that and I listened to your statement during the tour of the election campaign now, you were in Ilock, says the arrival when it's needed most. Believe me, it must be the most necessary but necessary thing to do there, not just to promote a spin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39195	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. Next parliamentary question, distinguished colleague Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will ask my question to the Minister of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. Dear Madam Minister, in these less than 8 months of government work, positive moves have been made to address the problems of people with disabilities, e.g. We have received a new national strategy, stability of the personal assistance project, soon a rule on assistants in teaching, better quality regulation of work and employment, etc. However, in order to enable persons with disabilities through their representatives to take part in the creation of certain decisions, policies, legislative frameworks relating to them, it is necessary to establish a committee for persons with disabilities who are an advisory and expert body of the Government, and its task is to give the Government proposals, opinions and expert explanations in the field of protection of persons with disabilities and their families and to carry out activities aimed at their well-being. Madam Minister, I know the government has made a decision to set up a commission, but would you please tell me when the commission will start working?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39197	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. Ms. Nada Murganic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39198	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, just as you did in your opening part of the issue and pointed out, when you referred to the results that this government has done in this short time to promote rights and to exercise the rights of persons with disabilities, you pointed out several activities that concern truly inter-resorial cooperation, although the issue is addressed, certainly only to me. Namely, why am I pointing that out? I point out that they would point out the role of this Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities, on 03. 12. In 2016, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, together with the Prime Minister, was also attended by representatives of associations, alliances and networks of persons with disabilities, you as a representative and advocate of Mrs Anka Slonjak where a comprehensive problem of this category of citizens was really discussed, and at that time, the prime minister promised to work towards establishing or adopting a solution to the appointment of the commission. At the May 25th session, the government adopted the solution, which was appointed president, deputy president, members, secretary and deputy secretary of the commission. It is, as you said, an advisory body that will monitor, propose, give expert opinions to the government in this area, consisting of 39 members. Why? Because they are also representatives of all resolutions because, as we know, no problem can be implemented through one portfolio and representatives of the academic community and certainly what is really important and important, representatives of persons with disabilities. The first session is scheduled for June 14th in the rooms of the Government where the establishment, adoption of the Rules of Procedure on Labour, the introduction and further consideration of the already adopted strategy you mentioned, the adoption and development programme for 2017 will be held. We expect a live activity, deadlines with certain tasks, one, continuous work with the aim of preventing the exclusion of persons with disabilities and preventing discrimination and what is most important, the adoption of quality legal rules which will be one guarantee that all these activities will be able and should be implemented. I think we're all on the right track together, and that's what we've seen and almost once a week of contact with the representatives of the associations, or with the attorney general. Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39199	I thank the distinguished minister, Mrs. Nadi Murganic. Dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39200	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for your detailed and comprehensive response. I am, of course, pleased with your response because you have once again shown in your portfolio that a quality partnership has been created between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and persons with disabilities. This excellent communication by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Government, promises you personally and your ministry that this partnership will be even stronger, better and more quality. Because that's the only way you've mentioned that we make people with disabilities equal, so that they don't get turned off and make their lives as good and quality as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39201	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. We move on to the next parliamentary issue, the distinguished representative Stjepan Kovač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39202	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, members of the government. My question for the Minister of Science and Education, here while waiting for the Minister's appointment, I would like to introduce him to the problems of our Center for Education and Education in Čakovec. So this is a building that was built more than half a century ago on former standards and regulations was designed for 60 children. Today she is attended by 180 students, meaning children all from the area of Međimurje County and the town of Čakovec. This center, this facility shoots at seams and requires construction of a new centre, i.e. new institutions. The town of Čakovec has already invested considerable funds, more than 18 million kunas. We've secured the land, we've solved the property's legal affairs. We also provided a building permit and complete municipal infrastructure. I am interested in here in the meantime three such institutions have been created and all three have been financed completely from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. When the 2017 budget was adopted, if you remember, I proposed an amendment to put in the initial funds, to start the final construction of that centre that is necessary in Međimurje and Čakovec. My amendment has not been accepted, so here I am asking you if there is any solution when we can meet, let's see, to find a common solution. I'm asking for co-financing. So you don't need to finance complete construction. Both the town of Čakovec and the county will join. Please include yourself to show that children from Čakovec from Međimurje are as important and important as all other children from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39203	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Kovac. The reply of the esteemed minister, Professor Pavo Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you very much for asking. According to the audit report, the State Audits of September last year, therefore there is no possibility directly from the state budget to finance schools such as in this case except in three cases for schools for children with special needs, for schools for children in the languages of national minorities and for those projects that have been launched earlier. So, I'm familiar with this case, and I've talked to the local authorities, and I've received them. I thank you both for your interest and for your information on this. I can inform you, so first of all, that within the existing means we are faced with the situation that a series of schools were envisaged and invested their projects to build or reconstruct from European funds. However, you yourself know that in previous mandates, the government did not put that education into its programme so that we were found with it. We are now looking for ways to make available, in the context of existing funds, certain resources for this purpose, and to this end we are the current amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. However, we will go with the proposal to allow this ban that has now existed, to invest from the state budget in school building, to allow in exceptional cases such as in Čakovec to help those local environments that are unable to finance their own needs for schools or preschool institutions, to then also be made available from state budget funds in such institutions. I hope that, if according to the plan in the third quarter of this year, the amendments and the amendments to the law will be in force, so that they can meet something on that plan already this year. Here I am going to do everything in any case to make sure that this case that I'm familiar with school in Čakovec tries to get the students there a satisfactory opportunity to teach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39205	I would like to thank you for your response to Honoring Minister Pavi Barisic. Dear colleague Stjepan Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39206	Thank you. So here I can say that I'm partially satisfied if it's going to work out, if it's going to go towards a solution to find a solution. Because as you yourself said in your answer, that institution has already met two criteria. It is for children with special difficulties needs, and also 70% of these children are Roma national minorities. I think that's definitely the problem with education and that your respective ministry should be involved in solving this problem with common forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39207	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Kovac. Next on the parliamentary issue in turn, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39208	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Croatian Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Health, Mr Milan Kujundzic. Dear Minister, here's before I ask a specific question just to bring out two, three thesis that we'll probably both agree on. First, when it comes to such a system as the health care system, which is a large system, it needs to ensure that all participants in this system have material, but also the human health conditions that they can do their job and what we can also agree that health has no price and that every human in the Republic has the right to adequate health care, especially when it is the most difficult. Last year, Minister Nakic brought an amendment to the emergency medicine network for Virovitic Podravna County. That's after six months of work, all the people who are professional, who have made such a network, and that was a good solution. However, this year at your table has come, you have not yet signed it, there has come a proposal from the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute, of course, that was the Management Department of Health of Virovitica-Podravska County and the Institute of Emergency Medicine of Virovitica-Podravska County, under which the exhibition Orahovic abolishs two teams, T1. It's only left, they had five teams, that one's left, so three teams of T1 and two teams of T2. The Croatian medical chamber strongly opposed this proposal and brought to the attention of doctors on the ground. The town of Orahovica is on the edge of Virovitica-Podravska County, the older population, and there is traffic isolation. Doctors claim that it is impossible, in fact, to provide adequate emergency medical attention during the day, and especially because here is the former mayor of Orahova Lake for the summer, there are about 250 thousand people visiting the lake. So my question is quite clear, are you going to check these allegations and actually prevent these changes from being made, in other words, simply not to approve it, before you make sure that it's all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39209	I thank my distinguished colleague, Tomislav Sagar. Minister of Health's reply, distinguished Professor Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39210	Dear colleague Žagar, dear colleagues and colleagues, we share the same opinion, in fact, that certain problems exist in the health care system of all of us. Not the government's or some party's ministries, preserve availability and quality, and we'll do that. Last year there were some changes in the network, which were aimed at improving and indeed in some municipalities, and some locations have achieved improvement, and somewhere it appears that the best solution has not been reached. On this trail, of course I'll check it out specifically, as you say about Orahovica, for T1 teams, and if in the analyses we have now, it seems to us that the modem before that was, that we were easier and cheaper and we were closing equally well with the duty system. So we will also consider the watch model, because the watch model only involves one doctor and one sister for 16 hours and you have already existing doctors in Pula who are in the network of family, or emergency medicine, and with the introduction of T1 team, it actually means introducing new five teams, which is significantly increasing, and it does not contribute significantly. So, we'll consider, we'll see and we'll solve for one of the models or T1 or with duty as we've dealt with in some other places, trying to preserve quality and availability, and if you'll allow me a few more words since I have two more minutes today, as Mr Vlaovic has said some things to the Croatian public to say. He likely made a mistake in preparing the question with premeditation or by accident by giving him advice. Therefore, specializations in family emergency gynaecology, pediatrics are scheduled 175 specializations, selection is under way, and the funds are secured from the EU, where calls for a regulation that harms doctors, and above all patients, are not well informed by the Specialisation Regulation. According to doctors, it was going to be as fair as possible, but above all it was going to be to keep patients' interests in the county, where they would have secured health care. And with regard to debts, it is important to tell the Croatian public that the debts are inherited. So the total debt that we now have is equal to the total debt at the end of 2015, although 6 and a half billion and increased Croatian citizens' debt by 6 and a half billion and the total deficit remained the same. We stabilized that debt. So, I'm always in favor of dialogue, always the Ministry of Health's door is open and I'm always up for this kind of conversation, supplementation, and there's a few words that have been made possible when we correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39211	Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39212	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I'm pleased in this section, when you said the matter would be checked out. And of course, when you talk about a special team, special specialists who would come running, it's extremely important, because a doctor who works there in his daily, his office, he can't, in this case he has to leave his patients to go provide an ambulance. However, these solutions are not good. Here's to the case of Orahovica, they're now left without a pediatrician, hardly there to return to the pediatrician. So, some of the things that are in these cities, the municipalities that are on the margins, you have to do everything you can to get rid of it as soon as possible. Here's what I'm going to say when you've expanded your answer a little bit, I'm going to expand my question. Here's an example of New Bukovica, the municipalities from which I come. We have a new infirmary, we don't have a doctor, because we can't raise 400 patients. And now that's the problem. But now it's not just the municipalities. We need to do everything and I'm asking you as Minister to do everything, so the issue of both Orahovica and Nova Bukovica is resolved, because people deserve adequate health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39213	Thank you. We're moving on to question number 35. counterpart Drazen Bošnjakovic, question of Culture Minister Nina Obulen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, we are actually witnessing a major crisis about Agrokor which is shaking Agrokor and the whole society, but also in the shadow of that crisis we have a crisis about a book. In the crisis are both publishers and owners of bookstores and we are witnessing that bookstores all over Croatia are closing and thus our publishers are losing actually, distribution channels where they will place the book but also these bookstores that are closed in them are a number of books that are questionable how to put them back on the market. I am therefore very interested, and I think the entire Croatian public who plans the measures to be taken by the Ministry of Culture to overcome this crisis and to get out of it, in general which policy will we lead towards the book in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39215	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. You're right, we're witnessing a serious crisis in the field of publishing and bookkeeping. The crisis is not only driven by a direct crisis in two companies holding about 40% of the total distribution network, but trends have been present for years. The lack of bookstores in a large number of Croatian cities, continued trend declines in the number of titles. The damages we estimate in part will refer to the inability of these entrepreneurs who have become in difficulty to pay off their suppliers, so the book publishers that have been sold. However, we lose damage daily because at this point, about 40% of the book chain is out of service. From the beginning of the mandate we immediately began to talk intensively, primarily with the community of publishers and bookstores at the Chamber of Commerce to come up with a whole series of medium-term measures to help the publishing industry. But of course, because of this situation, we had to take a whole series of short-term measures. What I would point out is certainly a ransom which is a regular measure of the Ministry of Culture. Now, within ten days, we're going to publish the results of the first 4 to 5 million, and then we've increased the number of stimulations for published literary works in the last year, so all these are measures that go towards publishers. Another important measure will be an additional tender for support in this year, the publication of new books which we want to directly influence this trend by reducing the number of new quality titles. Then yesterday, or today, we announced two additional tenders, one tender for entrepreneurship, the promotion of entrepreneurship in culture, which is a regular competition of the Ministry of Culture, but now we have called an additional two million aimed exclusively for publishers and bookstores. We have also published a tender for the production of viewing translations of Croatian literature into foreign languages in order to make our performances at fairs that we regularly make more effective and enable publishers to sell their titles in international markets. What should be pointed out is that in the preparation of criteria for defining the status of bookstores, which will then enable the local self-government units to intervene with the bookstores, either through certain support, or through renting space under favourable conditions. Here he joined us in cooperation except HGK and the city of Zagreb. Finally, I would like to stress that at the end of June we will hold a targeted meeting with colleagues from France from the French National Book Centre, which is the state that has the most sophisticated system of book support and publishing measures, and we will see here in the context of what we can do in the Croatian economy, but also in the state support system because it is necessary to know that all these support is notified as state support, which we can apply from foreign experience to intervene. I think what's most important is that all measures are negotiated and implemented in close cooperation with the Community of Publishers and Bookshops. Thank you again for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39216	Thank you. Here you go, pal Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39217	... and these slightly longer-term measures and indeed this 40% of bookmakers data that is somehow blocked in the system sounds pretty bad, but these measures that you're taking, this whole range of measures gives us some encouragement that we're going to get out of this crisis because it would really be a big shame instead of spreading, that in most of the towns and smaller and smaller municipalities we have as many bookmakers as possible so people can see the headlines, read the headlines, and that their books are affordable, we have a crisis like we have. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But these measures you're taking, I think they're taking us in the right direction, and you've greatly encouraged us with this palette of all these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39218	Thank you. We move to question number 36, distinguished counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39219	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, I don't know who's in charge of answering. It has been mentioned here on several occasions that we are somewhat behind in competitions, but not only with competitions but also with decisions or with evaluations of these competitions and projects that are run according to EU funds according to individual measures and individual programmes. However, my question is not focused on this because we have some of our luck, so at the level of local and regional self-government, we have managed to sign a contract and a very important contract has recently been signed for my region, it is related to the Frankopan Roads project, which is owned by the Primorje-Granaka County but also several units of local self-government in which the project will be realised. But here's after that original joy, a surprise. We all expected, so it was announced, there is a fund at the ministry that allows those who are investors to report to the project for a domestic component to co-finance this fund to a certain extent. This was done by the county, however, because it was interpreted by the State Aid Act in a way that was actually an EU component and here it is more than tens of millions of kunas larger than 7.5 million kuna. And that's why we won't be able to get absolutely anything in that home component. I think it will create a major problem for local self-government units in the realization of such slightly more ambitious projects. So I ask if something can be done to help local and regional self-government units to realise projects under this law but also regulations and criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39220	Thank you. ... Here I was correct. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39221	Here's what we're going to do is we're going to put in charge of the minister who just finished this entire ceremony in Brussels that when she comes back to answer you in writing for this project on the Frankopan roads. In any case, there is a fund in the Ministry of Co-financing of Projects. There are certain restrictions on the level of state aid, we have already diagnosed this issue. I will also ask the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Funds and the Ministry of Economy and the competent services to see how much we can go as far as possible. Of course it's in our interest to finance and co-finance major projects. First, it's good for absorption and second, the benefit is much wider than some projects that we can call micro-projects. In any case, the part relating to cultural heritage also puts first the role of the unit of local and regional self-government and cities and municipalities and counties. In this particular case of the Primorsko-Gorski County. I believe that one partner spirit that we've developed with all the counties and cities in these past months is the modus operand that we're going to insist on. The fact that the minister comes from just one of the county agencies and at the moment sees the narrow throats of all these processes helps us to reduce the number of decisions in the process and administrative and project and financial and these frameworks, especially given the reference, you were not here earlier when the second question was. If we have a Peljek Bridge today, if we have this decision relating to broadband Internet, infrastructure that is not interesting, commercial investors. So we gradually come to the stage of large projects, which is the most important and useful and best possible way to try to make the most of this financial perspective. Large countries and also Central and Eastern European countries, in particular Poland, have managed through major projects to raise the economic level of its development, solve infrastructure problems that would never be solved by these funds. And that's why this big project approach through appropriate procedures, through appropriate co-financing, is the only correct way for us all to turn back together in 2023, look at the first 10 years of membership and say all of this on the map of Croatia exists thanks to the effective absorption of funds. And in that sense, we will also try to find solutions to this issue of co-financing ceilings. And here I am going to ask the secretary of state, who also comes from the level of the head of one of the local self-government units to deliver with the other co-workers in the ministry and with the minister and concrete written material to see what is possible with the Frankopan Ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39223	So I thank the Prime Minister for his reply and I believe that something will be done to make these projects go as far as expected, you know that we have deadlines and that without money and the local self-government is, most people who have worked in local self-government work and today as mayors and mayors know, and even the mayors know that unfortunately, local self-government has remained without, or have been reduced, its tax revenues have been reduced and indeed there are fewer opportunities for someone who can be placed in such project investments. And I'm afraid it might happen that we're completely demoting local self-government, to be ambitious in such projects, and the one I mentioned is particularly important to us because it's a project in culture, a project of investing in cultural heritage in the Primorje-Gorski County, which is probably what we, as a unit of local self-government or county, think or state could never provide as much funding from our own budget. So this is the kind of opportunity I think we shouldn't miss and bring those who need to realize these projects into a situation so they don't realize them because we didn't agree on how to function in time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39224	Thank you. We're moving on to question number one. 37. Dear colleague Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39225	Thank you, Mr. President. I planned to refer my question to the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs but since I do not see it, in accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I refer it to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. President, Mr. Kovac, under the authority of Mr. Kovac, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent a note to our UN representative on 16 March 2016. I quote all UN member states, so Slovenia, in which it has stated: "In order to protect its rights under international law, Croatia has initiated a procedure to terminate the arbitration agreement, cease its application and withdraw from arbitration. Slovenia has also objected to the issue of the termination of the arbitration agreement by bilateral means by means of the measures referred to in Article 33. The Charter of the United Nations and as provided for in the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Contracts. The Convention gives Croatia the right to use another mechanism of calming down to address the issue of termination of the arbitration agreement. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Kovac, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed all UN member states in March 2016 of the mechanisms that are in line with Articles 65 and 66 of Croatia. The Vienna Conventions on the Law of International Contracts are available to stop the arbitration agreement. Please answer me why these mechanisms were first Mr. Kovac, and after that Mr. Stier did not use to avoid harmful consequences from Croatia. I'll make it simple. In 2016, we informed 193 UN Member States, therefore, and Slovenia of the way in which we will resolve the dispute with Slovenia, and afterwards of the mechanisms that we will implement to stop this arbitration agreement. Why didn't we do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39226	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39227	Here is the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign and European Affairs Minister, colleague Stier, right here in New York City. A propose of New York, esteemed counterpart Grbin, and represents the Croatian views on another important topic, which refers to the end of the work of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. When it comes to your question that I must admit you're recycling, so you've received a written response from the government to your inquiry. I know you're a lawyer, a colleague and I sat together here on a few committees. You're very detailed, you're pedantic, you're looking at web sites to see if there's anything about access to information, whether there's a possibility of an impediment, a vote of mistrust, an investigative commission. You're very edgy like that. That's what I'm saying because I'm telling you, and it's even grizzly because I read your interview at the National. I was very disappointed in both men and as a colleague. And what you are doing here now and trying to create some false impression in the Croatian public that the Croatian government, Croatian diplomacy, the ministry, Minister Kovac, Minister Stier did not do something so much would tell you that people in Dalmatia are stingy, unconstructive, unproductive, it is incorrect, incorrectly interpreting international conventions, putting some kind of public impression and burden as if we did not protect our interests enough, and I must admit politically of you do not like it. I thought you were strong, that you were a little bit more focused on protecting national interests on topics that we really achieved a 100% national consensus on. You were in power then, we were in opposition. We reacted as one. We responded to a contaminated, compromised arbitration of illicit shops where both Slovenian agent and Slovenian judge left their resignations on their own. No one forced them to. If any of you are to resign, then the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms is "case closed" for anyone who looks at it on the side. And therefore all the activities in this story for us that have completed the story of arbitration will not, I cannot in any way bind the Republic of Croatia with whatever their final decision is. and that is what is important and it is only relevant to the Croatian public. What you're trying to do is kind of pettyly political, and I'd even say an attempt at profit. I don't really know where you're going. I have considered you far more serious in these topics and I think you have simply missed the subject, you have received a full answer from your fellow lawyers who, with all due respect, have studied international law a little longer, dealing with it every day, very carefully and carefully in cooperation with international legal professionals and with university professors watch every step in such a sensitive process as arbitration or as any aspect of the implementation of international law. Therefore, Croatia went to arbitration in good faith. Everything we've done has been fully supported by the facts in the very procedure of our representatives of our colleagues from the ministry, the professors, the respected international lawyers who helped us, our judge in a process that is a man of hundred percent integrity. He was probably your professor just like he was mine, because I also mastered international law with him, and they made arguments that we did everything. What you're doing right now is too high, and that's all I'd like to say to you, my colleague, the coat of arms is too high.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39228	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39229	I thank you, Mr. President, and I'm glad you read my interview, because the way you're doing it now has shown me why I said some of the things I said there. One of them is that you have deeply disappointed me because you have once again shown that you have neither system of values. Because if you had any value system you would now say is now in Croatia about 2 hours, in New York is somewhere around 8. I will contact our representative with the United Nations and ask him to address the Secretary-General of the United Nations and initiate the peace process. Why am I telling you this? For example, once again, Minister Kovac as Minister of Foreign and European Affairs of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to these United Nations, I will repeat once again to all the United Nations Member States, and I will write a letter to Slovenia saying: "The agreement with Slovenia ceases bilaterally in the way set out in Article 33. The Charter of the United Nations in accordance with the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Contracts. If that doesn't work, we'll go to peace. Look, I'm telling you now what Mr. Erjavec will tell you tomorrow. And I don't want you to get yourself into a situation so you can't answer him too much. And that's why I appeal to you once again, you have a phone. This is what everyone saw today, all morning you've been running through it, taking it, calling the Republic of Croatia at the UN and asking to comply with Article 66. The Convention on the Law of International Contracts by the Secretary-General shall implement the procedure of calming down and after that shall cease the agreement with Slovenia officially, just as the Croatian Parliament has unanimously concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39230	We move on to the last 38th question, dear colleague Ivan Kirin asks the question of the Minister of Health, Mr Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39231	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government. The waiting lists, i.e. the time of availability of healthcare, are mentioned at the time of all health ministers. The time for waiting for specialist examinations, diagnostic tests and time for initiation of treatment is mentioned. It all led to dissatisfaction, both patients and healthcare workers. My question is to Mr. Health Minister. Mr. Kujundzic, what do you intend to achieve by modeling the priority waiting lists? What do you think you're going to do to ease your problems and reduce your waiting lists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39232	Thank you very much, Dr. Kirin, colleagues and colleagues. Dr. Kirin probably knows the problem when he targeted this inquiry. The waiting lists exist everywhere in the world and there is no country that is much richer and with much larger human beings, and mainly with financial resources that do not have a waiting list. Unfortunately, it is difficult for patients on one side to wait when they are least ill, and on the other hand no one can solve waiting lists where they would be removed and so we decided to model the priority waiting lists. So it creates a bit of a mix-up in public. They're not emergency lists. Emergency lists are something, or emergency cases are everywhere in the world, all doors are opened and offices and operating rooms and resuscitations or CTs, anything. Therefore, priority lists are lists that will solve the problem that seriously ill patients who have been delayed over the months could seriously endanger their health. Many patients are waiting today in Croatia and in the world, however, these waitings actually do not significantly damage whether the procedure will be done in a month or six months. However, there are conditions, there are doubts about the disease that is actually if not recognized in time endangers not only health but also endangers life. And so we came up with these days, and we're going to start using the information house right now, where any of us as a patient enters our family medicine doctor, and this one through his history, and we're going to review the suspicion that it's a serious illness that can't wait, for example, that it's a threatening heart attack, threatening a stroke, suspected brain tumor, lungs, stomach, or I'm not picking up other multiple diseases right now, he's giving the patient a term with a competent specialist and a competent specialist if he confirms his suspicion then in the next two weeks he provides him with diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. In this way, we will actually alleviate what cannot be solved, so I can't get rid of the waiting list. But anything to wait for will not significantly endanger patients, and those seriously ill patients who should not and should not wait will be taken care of within three days or within two weeks. And that way we think that we can accept a model that's in developed countries, that what can wait, unfortunately, is waiting everywhere in the world. But serious patients can't wait. I believe that this pilot project will start in the next ten days at four Zagreb hospitals, and if it turns out to be good and we dress up more in it, which could possibly be informatively bad, in three months it will start all over Croatia. And we don't think there's gonna be any more need to stress, and sometimes, unfortunately, to wave for daily political purposes. And by the way, waiting lists in Croatia do not extend compared to a year or three years ago when significantly large money has been spent and this has been wrongly spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39233	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39234	Thank you very much for your answer. It is clear that everywhere in the world, waiting lists exist and richer and more developed countries have not fully solved it. But the Croatian patients of their family, and the health workers will be I believe very satisfied with this model. Because the model will certainly I believe prove excellent and after the pilot project will spread throughout Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39235	Thank you very much. And we're moving on to the last question today. It is a question Franjo Lucic addressed to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear President of the Croatian government, the respected minister, respected ministers. I give you my question, Mr. President, because this government gives one great importance to Slavonia, Baranja, West Sreme. So, the Slavonia project that citizens of my county of Požega-Slavonska, Western Srijema, Baranja can generally expect from the Slavonia project and to say what is most important, and today you have already talked about what are the main projects and what can be expected in Slavonia and Baranja and West Srijem from such an important project for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39237	Thank you, dear fellow Lucic. So, in a series of answers today, both colleagues Tolusic and I and other ministers have said how attached this government is and all of our fellow MPs from the fourth and fifth constituency, all mayors, all mayors, the mayors, are shown for the realization of the project Slavonia. The fact that we have 3 ministers in the government who are from these areas is particularly relevant for the implementation of this project and the Minister of Regional Development of European Funds and Finance Minister, Minister of Agriculture, young government members full of enthusiasm, full of knowledge about project implementation. In a number of times over the past eight months, I have visited all Slavonian counties, spoken to the leaders of these units of local and regional self-government, with the leaders of development agencies, with people, and I have felt a great expectation. You know him well, you come from Požega-Slavon County, one of the two counties that have no contact with other countries, which only have contact with other counties, you are aware, for example, of the issues of more quality traffic connection. How do you solve the problem of fast roads? How do you solve the problem of flooding, irrigation, high - water protection? That's a lot of stuff in your place. How to solve the problem of many of our companies, production companies that have fallen into difficulties for various reasons and which without the quality of government engagement, ministries, competent institutions, help in trying to find strategic partners or consolidate a particular industry with a more similar and quality, in terms of sustainability, societies are difficult without this project. And the fact that we can achieve this over the next few years is important for you and for all people living in Slavonia, in a way that we have a broad political framework, we have clearly outlined objectives, we have a European, national and local level of engagement, a contribution of the private sector, a contribution of science that is extremely important to support us in the realisation of projects. You come from a small town in Požega-Slavon County, which has proved to be one of the best and most effective in using European funds, in a way that you have increased your original budget several times through European projects. And in a very concrete way you have shown both a small environment, if well organized, it can improve the lives of its inhabitants. We will track down such positive examples, in the spirit of partnership, mutual cooperation, take advantage of the resources available to us. Logic tells us that over 2 billion euros go to Slavonia, in this financial perspective. Whether it's through exclusive competitions or through the preparation of quality projects, it's less important. What matters is the realisation of these projects. And on that trail, we will continue our activity. I thank you for the fact that you support the Slavonia project and I am glad that the next council meeting will be in Požega, that it will be another meeting with the newly elected mayors, with associations of cities, associations of municipalities and where we will continue the projects we have identified in the past months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39238	Thank you. Here you go, pal Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am certain not only in Slavonia, Baranja and West Srijem, along with the realization of this Slavonia programme, but also in all other programmes that are particularly relevant to EU funds, I am sure we will remove all of the problems we have today throughout Croatia and, above all, in Slavonia, because this realisation of such projects gives us a guarantee of the future and survival of people in Slavonia, especially those young people who are looking for their solutions through new jobs in the EU. I hope that this very realization, this project will keep all these people in Croatia for the benefit of all of us. Thank you very much again for your efforts and support.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39240	Thank you too, fellow Lucic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is what's currently done in the morning. I'm setting a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first item on the agenda will be the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation 2015/757 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, reporting and verification thereof, and amending Directive 2009/16EC. And the second point we're going to do today is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39241	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Mario Šiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. This law lays down competent authorities, including the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Croatian Accreditation Agency and the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, each within the framework of their prescribed section for the implementation of the provisions of this Regulation, as well as inspection and administrative supervision and infringement provisions. The Regulation lays down rules for the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the maritime transport sector and other relevant information on volume ships of more than 5,000 gross tonnes arriving at EU ports, shall pass from or within those ports as from 1 January 2018. The obligation to monitor carbon dioxide emissions does not include warships, military auxiliary ships, military auxiliary ships, fishing and fishing boats, wood crafts of primitive production, ships that do not have mechanical propulsion, and ships of the Government of the Republic of Croatia used for non-commercial purposes. The regulation contains measures aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions because they account for 4% of total greenhouse gas emissions in the EU, and so far international maritime transport has been the only type of transport not covered by EU greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments. The system of monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport will be based on consumption and type of fuel, and on the energy efficiency of ships as a first step in the process of including carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport in EU emissions reduction commitments, and other emissions are already included in that obligation. According to the Croatian Ship Register, this law will cover six shipping companies with 37 ships flying the flag of the Republic of Croatia. Part of the obligations prescribed by the regulation is already included in the ship's energy efficiency management plan. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Member States shall notify the European Commission of the provisions of this law from 1 July 2017 before the first reporting period for marine transport emissions starting on 1 January 2018. The emissions of carbon dioxide shall be calculated as a mass of spent fuel and emission factor and, therefore, the shipowners to which the regulation applies in relation to shipowners in international transport will be obliged to collect fuel consumption data a year before and to collect data on a transport burden not contained in international regulations. In addition, they have an administrative burden in terms of drawing up a monitoring plan and thereby calculating carbon dioxide emissions that will need to be verified by accredited verifiers. As regards the obligation to report on the average energy efficiency prescribed by this Regulation, it is already in force from 1 January 2013 and applies to all ships above 400 gross, which means that the ships now covered by this Regulation are included. We note that there were no proposals and opinions on the draft laws that had not been adopted. Taking into account all of the above, the need to adopt this law is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39243	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39244	Thank you very much, Vice President. I don't know how he'd speak to you now, with the minister, acting minister without a majority. I think that now that you are not representing most or appointed, there is no point in discussing..., you are not a minister for two months, although you should talk about this topic seriously, not just about hydrocarbons, but about ships being washed up in our Adriatic and creating a big spot. But the fact is that at this point, we are discussing five, six, seven parliamentary deputies, and we know that neither you have a majority as a proposing nor a prime minister who is without a majority, who deceives the public. So, and what you're doing now, you're doing without the will of the majority and the will of the citizens. Therefore, it would be fairest if this session were interrupted because it is pointless any other debate with five, six parliamentary deputies, and you are no longer representing anyone, you are not representing the majority. You represent yourself here, just don't sign the papers without a minister like you did in the case of Lečevica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39245	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. President of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39246	Thank you very much. Mr. President. This way, when we discuss this law, I must admit that I haven't felt sad in the Croatian Parliament for a very long time. The senselessness of the debate and the proposals for new laws here as chairman of the Committee must be mentioned too great until Prime Minister Plenkovic shows that he has a parliamentary majority and nominates a new minister. As chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, I must warn you that I also sent an open letter to the Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic on 24.5. this year and warned him that there has been no Minister of Environment and Energy for 30 days. Today there are 41 days since we have no minister and I simply don't see the meaning of the work of the Croatian Parliament until the Prime Minister says and shows that he has the majority and until he returns his mandate to the Croatian Parliament. I am now no longer looking for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia just to show that he has the majority but to ask him to resign this trend because it is obvious that most of them do not. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39247	Comrade Maras, you speak for the board?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39248	On behalf of the board, as chairman of the board, I speak and have an obligation as chairman of the board. Mr. Bukarica, you are in HDZ, but don't subflam, please don't soak behind me all the time I hear you with one ear. ... Don't sully, let the president lead and leave your party activists behind for later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm going to say one more time, I'm speaking here as president of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I call, here we go again, God forbid, I beg you, Mr. President, to warn your fellow Bukarica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39249	Please, like this, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39250	As chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection... that it has crossed the line that after 41 days, Prime Minister Plenkovic does not propose to the Minister for Environmental and Nature Protection and I call on him to resign as prime minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that we can normally discuss such laws as I will say here that today the Committee on Environment and Nature discussed this report of the law and that he supported it but this no longer makes sense to my people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Give most of it to Mr. Plenkovic or resign. None of you ask to say when the elections will be, but if you do not have a majority, resign and then the Croatian Parliament will decide when the elections will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39251	Thank you. I'm begging you, but I'm asking everyone else to stick to the subject. The subject is law, this law, concrete law. It is clear to me that the political struggle is under way, but let us not abuse the Rules of Procedure, or violate the Rules of Procedure, directly violate the Rules of Procedure, but let us discuss the laws and laws that are on the agenda. Now we can continue with the point we started with, so I'm opening the debate. The debate came on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39253	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will try briefly to talk about the final draft law implementing Regulation 2015/757, which is in second reading and clearly said that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law and the implementation of this Regulation. Because what's important to say at the beginning is that we are already through the Paris conference which was defined by a global agreement at the end of 2015, which determines that global temperature growth should be limited to 2% compared to, means before industrial time and that it strives to keep that temperature rise somewhere at 1.5 degrees Celsius. The story of greenhouse gases, endangering climate conditions is something we all need to worry about. This law applies as we have heard from the Secretary of State in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to its shipowners, Jadrolini, Tanker's sailing, Atlantic sailing, sailboat, Oily sailing, all 37 ships in all. We think it's important, because it's kind of a step ahead of what we had in the first reading, so why we're trying, means before the rest of the world to do something when some things are. Some rules apply to us before anyone else, because the fact is that this law will be implemented in the EU, on EU shipowners, and that all others, all other shipmen will be able to wait for it as we heard one year in terms of later implementation. What is new in relation to the latest reading is clear that the rules for accurate monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions and other relevant information on ships exceeding 5 thousand gross tonnes, which come to the EU ports, come from or are located in these ports, and for the reporting of emissions and their verification in order to promote CO2 reductions from maritime transport, in a cost-effective manner. Ships above 5,000 gross tonnes account for about 55% of ships, which agree to EU ports and are responsible for about 90% of the CO2 emissions associated. This obligation would exclude ships of less than 5,000 gross tonnes that account for about 40% of the fleet and contribute to everything with only 10% of the emissions. Second, monitoring and reporting will primarily be carried out in a way that ships for each voyage, if they have less than 300 trips, calculate the amount of CO2 emissions during the reporting period, i.e. in total for all travel, if there are more than 300 trips during the reporting period, as a direct correlation between spent fuel and greenhouse gases. The verification of the emissions report and the assessment of compliance of the monitoring plan with the Regulation will be carried out by the verifier and credited by the competent accreditation body of the Member States, which is in the Republic of Croatia, the accreditation agency. I repeat again, so this law of the HDZ Club accepts and will raise your hand safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39254	Thank you. Because we don't have anyone reported. I'm closing this debate, and we'll vote when they get wrapped up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39255	Let's move on. The final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/757 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, their reporting and their verification, and amending Directive 2009/16/EC, second reading, P.Z. 73. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 115 votes for the adoption of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2015/757 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, reporting and verification thereof, and amending Directive 2009716/EC.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39256	The next law is 2. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 72. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material is delivered to you in boxes, the attachments are not multiplied with the report, but are located on the Croatian Assembly website. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received their reports at the session, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education, esteemed Mako Glunčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39257	Dear representatives of the Assembly and the Assembly, it is a final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. It means another reading. So, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits to the Croatian Parliament the final draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. This law aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Directive 2014/26 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, of 26 February 2014 on collective exercise of copyright and related rights, and the authorisation of several national areas for the right to internet use of music works on the internal market. In the text below, I will only refer this as a directive and this Directive obliges EU Member States to make appropriate regulations for it. Following the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a regular procedure to the Croatian Parliament on 12 January 2017 in two readings of the draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The debate on the proposal in the first reading was concluded in the Croatian Parliament on 3 February 2017 and the conclusion on the adoption of the bill was adopted on 8 February 2017. The draft law was discussed by two committees of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture as a parent committee, both committees unanimously supported the adoption of this law, meaning in this first reading, where the Committee on Education, Science and Culture had no objection to the draft law, while the Committee on Legislatives made new technical remarks which were fully adopted and included in the final draft of the law. The final draft of the law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in the Croatian Parliament, the second reading, April 13, 2017, is discussed by the Legislative Committee at its 21st session, and unanimously supported the adoption of the law, along with a minor nomotechnical amendment, which refers to the modification of the term under quotes of persons with special needs in persons with disabilities, as an expression that can be accepted in official use by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Also, on the final proposal for a discussion of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, at its 11th session, as a parent committee, which supported without notice the final draft law. In the final draft of the law, with the adoption of nomotechnical remarks, the First Reading Legislative Committee also took into account the proposals and comments made by the debate on the Croatian Parliament on the draft law in the first reading, the final text of the law included certain improvements in the text, the provisions of the law which it submitted, which were also submitted by the competent state authorities, which included improvements in the text were primarily formal, i.e., nomotechnical nature. As regards the content of the legislative proposal, it is pointed out that the final draft laws on amendments, amendments to the Copyright Act and related rights in accordance with the Directive are improving the system of collective exercise of copyright and related rights in the Republic of Croatia, and facilitates the issue of authorisations from online use of music works in several national areas in the EU internal market. This is one newspaper in that law. In the Republic of Croatia, the collective exercise of copyrights or related rights will currently be carried out by eight organisations and the proposed law will, with formal fulfilment of the obligation to implement EU rules, be made available to those and possible future collective rights organisations that will act in the Republic of Croatia in more detail than will be subject to the obligations they have to fulfil in the exercise of this activity. And I will now list here the five changes that are significant in this new law, which are, an even higher level of obligations to rightholders representing and towards users of the subject of protection whose holders are represented. Secondly, effective alternative dispute resolution between collective rights organisations and users of the subject of protection as well as possible disputes with rightholders is improved, as thirdly, more detailed professional standards are prescribed in the management of collective rights organisations primarily in relation to financial operations, then the level of transparency in the work of collective rights organisations is raised and the necessary preconditions for the approval of cross-border online use of musical works are finally prescribed, which imposes as a need in the context of achieving a single EU digital market. The adoption of the law expects positive economic, social, cultural and other impacts, as an improved system of collective achievement of copyrights and related rights will affect the creation of a better, more efficient and transparent system and will allow for better availability of Croatian music works on the EU internal market. The expected benefits of a more efficient and transparent system will be given to rightholders as well as to copyright users and other protection subjects. In fact, increasing efficiency transparency is expected to reduce management costs for collective rights organisations in favour of the availability of most of the fees collected for the distribution of rightholders. This will also increase transparency in determining the level of fees for the use of objects, protection by the commercial user. It will also facilitate overall supervision of the legality of the work of collective rights organisations and ensure a more detailed public insight into their work. Finally, it is noted that on 21 February 2017, through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Republic of Croatia received a reasoned opinion from the European Commission, infringement 2016/035/45 concerning the non-transposition of the directive into national legislation within the prescribed deadline. That deadline was therefore adopted by 10 April 2016, with the opinion of the European Commission in accordance with Article 258(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, the European Commission calls on the Republic of Croatia to take the necessary measures to act within two months on the receipt of a reasoned opinion, i.e. by 16 April 2017, so we are two months late for now, in accordance with it. Given the above, it is proposed that this law be adopted in a hasty manner in order to avoid possible financial punishment by the Republic of Croatia for breach of EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39258	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39259	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and as already stated on behalf of the Proposer. The proposal for this law was discussed in the first reading and the final draft of the law discussed and adopted by the home working bodies of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Law, of course, and accepted, noting that, when drawing up the final proposal of the law, all comments, proposals and opinions were taken into account in the debate during the first reading, and equally that Articles 4, 10, 11, 12, 13, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 30 were processed without a technical basis. At the beginning, I would like to stress immediately the HDZ Representatives' Club, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which was delivered by the Proposer and adopted. I will only briefly remind myself of the reasons why this law is being passed as well as the basic issues that are being addressed to it. Namely, copyright and related rights to creative creators and investors in creative industries ensure management of the use of their copyrights and articles of protection of related rights with a corresponding fee for such use. And also copyright and related rights represent a significant factor in both economic and social growth. The latest industry study in intensive use of intellectual property rights and economic efficiency in the EU since October 2016, which also includes data for the Republic of Croatia showing the contribution of these industries to the EU of 5.4% in total employment and 6.8% in GDP. And therefore, the aim of this law is, above all, to provide incentives for the creation of copyright works and thus to encourage the development of creative and cultural industry, also to provide incentives to invest in the creation of works and other subjects of protection, to ensure that public access to copyright works or objects of protection in such a way as to ensure the return of investment in their creation and the provision of public access, as well as to provide a financial basis for the pursuit of creative activities and thus to encourage creative industries. It is important to stress that the distribution of content, i.e. goods and services protected by copyright and related rights requires the licensing of these rights by their holders. And since individual licensing of these rights is neither practical nor effective when it comes to the great scope of the use of protection objects for the purposes of an effective system of licensing of these rights, a universal system of collective exercise of rights has been established. However, for collective rights to be exercised in this respect, commercial users allow them to regulate the issue of the use of the right for a large number of copyrights in cases where individual rights regulation with individual rightholders would be impractical and would also require prohibiting transaction costs. Equally, collective rights organisations play a key role in protecting and promoting cultural diversity and diversity because less or less well-known repertoires allow access to the market. And it is precisely this bill in this sense that sets out professional governance standards for these organisations primarily in the financial part of their business and also sets out standards of transparency in the work of these organisations. And I will remind, of course, that two problems have been identified in the EU in relation to collective rights organisations, the first of which refers to insufficiently transparent and effective management of these organisations, with insufficient supervision of their financial management while the other concerns insufficient preparation of collective organisations for online multilateral licensing and insufficient legal certainty in this area. And just to solve these problems at EU level. On 26 February 2014, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe adopted a directive on collective copyright and related rights and granting approval for several national areas for rights for the internet use of music works on the internal market. Since the directive obliges EU Member States to pass the relevant laws and regulations by April 10th of April 2016, the provisions of the copyright law and related rights are precisely whether this law is also a harmonisation with the acquis of the EU. As I said, following the debate in the first reading in the establishment of the final draft law, the applicant took into account and accepted the comments made by the home working bodies and, consequently, following the adoption of the observations of the Legislative Committee, the final proposal for the law was no-technically completed, in particular in Articles 4, 10, 11, 12, 13, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 30. The applicant also took into account and accepted the note of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture to take into account all the comments and proposals and opinions of clubs as well as the representatives who participated in the individual debate when considering the text of the law in the first reading. Following this, amendments have been introduced into the text of the final draft of the law which further improve the provisions relating to collective exercise of copyright and related rights. And so it is in Article 18. The final proposal for a law amending Article 165(2) of the amended provision, which, in the sense of the principle of determining the price of compensation for the use of the subject of protection, provides that such a price will be taken into account to an appropriate extent the religious, social and cultural needs of users belonging to sensitive social groups of pensioners, children and persons with special needs. The provisions relating to the supervision of the activities of collective rights organisations as well as independent management entities within the meaning of this law are also further specified. It is also specified in Article 9 of the final proposal of the law amending Article 158(3) that, if the execution of certain administrative, technical or ancillary transactions, for example, in the case of the issuing of accounts to users or the distribution of associated amounts amongst rightholders of collectively executed collectively by means of a written contract, such a contract shall not affect the duties of the collective exercise organisation, to fulfil all obligations under this law. In addition, in the context of the powers of the inspectors who oversee the exercise of the activities of collective exercise organisations within the meaning of this Act, the obligation to participate in the General Assembly was introduced and the obligation of timely delivery of information on the place and time of maintenance of the General Assembly and this provision is set out in Article 28. Final bill. Furthermore, Article 30 amending Article 171b in paragraph 5 introduces an additional provision which regulates that if the authority responsible for inspection tasks in respect of the collective exercise of the right takes the reasoned request of any person who has legal status or procedure... under official duty acquires the knowledge that an independent managing entity collectively exercises rights in the field of the Republic of Croatia and without prior prescribed delivery of such information, the competent authority may request information and documentation from that entity to determine whether the same collective exercise of rights is carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Act. This certainly creates assumptions that provide additional mechanisms for effective inspection of collective law enforcement activities. And finally, on the basis of everything I've said so far, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the final proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39260	Since we don't have anyone else reported, that concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We would have completed today's work and will continue tomorrow at 9.30 with the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 145. Good afternoon. The session was interrupted at 15.49 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-07-0.u39261	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 72. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the Committee's amendment. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Please vote. I find that, unanimously with 119 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act has been adopted together with the amendments adopted.
