ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38920	The question of judges and the choice of judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38921	Can you be a little more specific though?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38922	Well, here's the selection of the Supreme Judges and the Constitutional Court, the selection, that's the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38923	All right, all right. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38924	I'm stalling, Mr. President. On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I would like to look back at the work of the Parliament from the beginning to the present, from the point of view of a fellow freshman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38925	Okay. A fellow bush was the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38926	Dear President, please take a break. on the topic of the current political and economic moment in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Jandrokovic: Please be quiet.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38927	Okay. I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38928	Also Mr. President on the topic of the current political moment in Croatia with a special focus on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38929	A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38930	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I seek a break on the topic of the current political situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38931	All right, bud buddy. Please, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38932	The Honorable Mr. President on behalf of the SDSS Club also in connection with HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38933	Please, I ask you most beautifully, nothing is heard and please be correct towards each other. I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. I didn't hear you, what were you looking for, about what?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38934	The right to tell you I didn't hear it either, but I know what I wanted. So, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the board of supervisors, or HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38935	Okay. A colleague of Furio Radin. Nothing, good. You're giving up, okay. [[No, no, I'm giving up.]] A fellow Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38936	Thank you, President, on behalf of the HNS Club, for asking for a break regarding the current political situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38937	Thank you. Okay, so we have seven requests for a break. We'll continue our work at exactly 10.00 hours. It's 9:50 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38938	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, the first representative, Željko Glasnović, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38939	Thank you. Dear colleagues. This is what a philosopher of Greek law said thousands of years ago. Who makes the laws in Croatia, what are these people, strange names and strange biographies, code names? A recent report came out that you have 20 judges in Croatia who are a threat to national security. And how would they not be if their record in Belgrade and hunting were out there on bank accounts in Milan, etc., Switzerland that they transferred there until the '90s. What's the Justice Committee doing? I have proposed the last elections to make one form, if we can say that it is a pattern of lustration, where key questions are asked about people who run for the highest judicial authority. For example. Were you a member of the Communist Party, the second was a share in state-owned enterprises, had worked in the administrative bodies of state-owned enterprises that were robbed, because your file in Belgrade, was an associate of the secret services of the former state, etc. Nothing since then. I was told by the chairman of the Justice Committee that it wasn't his job. And whose job is it to do that lustration in the judiciary? The second question is how to assess the success of work in the judiciary. I get letters every day from judges, some solve two cases, some hundred of the same thing. And it's no wonder we have half a million pending court disputes because there's nothing in there that's a standard procedure that assesses the work of judges at lower levels of municipal courts, etc. First, these people, if they come up without checking, without a proper background check, do I know that some of them have haired their biographical data, biography, CVs, I recently received a document saying that a man with the code name Vrbik who collaborated with KOS was running for constitutional judge. Now we have enough time to do real checks on these people who will represent the Croatian people at the highest levels of the judiciary, no more excuses. Someone who worked for KOS, for UDBA, I see this is not interested in Mr Matic Fred here, he works there on his mobile, people who are constantly calling for the EU's legal gain has nothing to do with it. We inherited the legal gain for SFRY, which proves that to this day we haven't solved the issue of private property, stolen money, etc. When I say moral law, you have a legal gain here in Zagreb the streets of the government of Ranogajci, he was the real judge of the cause of some in the former state, he was the head of the OZNA Troika, the judge of Captain OZNA, and I think he killed hundreds of people with a decision, a pen to take away their property, and that's the legal gain that we inherited. He's got a Mr. Captain OZNA out there on Jarun. That's not what you're talking about. And until we get rid of that legal gain of SFRY, this is all smoke screen and microcry. We've actually got a preview of the former state, we've only got two things here that pop up a little bit out of the mold, that's the mass democracy that we play big Democrats here, and secondly, there's still no hyper inflation where you buy a newspaper of 10 dinars, tomorrow there's 150 etc. Until we get rid of that bitter knot in the courtroom, we'll have what it's like by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38940	Thank you very much. The next club is the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38941	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll tell you a few words from the point of view of a congregation freshman. Here's the first year ending, so I'd like to say a few words about it. So there are some nice moments and difficult moments in this House. We had a difficult time when fellow Pernar had to be taken out, and it shows that the Rules of Procedure should be changed and people should not be prevented from speaking. We've had a hard time every time we're here fighting over nothing. Let's remember that situation when we discussed amendments to the Associations Act, about the fact that the seal doesn't have to be used for associations, that's what we discussed for four hours. We discussed nothing but the seal. We had thought two very bright moments. One bright moment was when we discussed the laws on the integrity of the contract with international features where we are very, very unique in the view that such contracts are harmless. We had a bright moment yesterday that lasted almost all day when we discussed amendments to the executive law. I think the debate was very constructive, that it was interesting, that there were raised tones but the debate was exactly what discussions in the Croatian Parliament should be. And at this point, I appeal to the opposition and to the government to accept some amendments that are not in line with the government. First of all, I'm thinking of an amendment relating to a principal that shouldn't be less than 50 grand in the performance, I mean an amendment to prevent real estate performances that are mortgaged by contracts with unfair contractual provisions. I mean the amendment where it is also to be prevented, in fact, to order the courts that if the debtor requests to postpone the execution until the end of the court proceedings, that the order be postponed. I'm also talking about that amendment that was handed over yesterday by a couple of MOST colleagues. So I would single out these amendments as perhaps the most important to bring and save a lot of, a lot of people until the new Implementing Law is passed. It's actually only about one bypass to the new Executive Act, so I don't think it should be a problem for these amendments to be accepted. And finally, if I look at it like a hockey game, I'd say I run a 2-0 in the first quarter. I managed to collect 78 signatures for two laws that would finally end the illegality of the bank's business. So these 78 signatures I managed to collect within 2 weeks faster than Prime Minister Plenkovic collected his majority, so I think I deserve in some way his respect, the respect of the government of the Republic of Croatia. And I therefore call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to cooperate with me as much as possible in giving an opinion on these laws. I don't want these laws going over your knees, I want to bring them into line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I want them brought forward, I want us to have as little resistance as possible, to bring these laws in consensually. What's this about? One law will finally stop the illegal manipulation of interest rates because we will establish a methodology for determining fixed interest margins in all loans where these margins are not agreed. Here's the HDZ gave even the green light for the initiative for this law, they don't agree with the retroactive solution of that law but they agree with the initiative, so we've already got half the work done in some way. When the law comes to the government, we'll discuss it, we'll make a deal. I claim there is no retroactivity because the Constitutional Court has taken the view that when it acts on contracts that are still current, it is quasi-retroactivity and not retroactivity. And by other law, we will allow all debtors who have been damaged by the illegal operations of banks, who have been protected by a collective court ruling in the case of Franak and this is not only related to Franak but also to the euro and kunas, so those who have been raising loans in the period from 10 September 2003 to 31 December 2008, this law will allow all such debtors who have about 100 thousand and perhaps 200 thousand to be extrajudicially asked by the bank to repay their overpaid interest. Here, thank you all for your cooperation, I think I've been a good colleague, I don't think I've been too hard on you. Here, as a freshman my first year is over, I run a 2-0 in the first quarter because I managed to collect signatures for the laws that I came here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38942	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Nikola Grmoje will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38943	Your Honor, Vice President. Here, I'm going to get attached a little bit to my colleague Alexic, and I absolutely agree that yesterday's debate on the Executive Law was very constructive and reasoned. We had one general agreement here in the Croatian Parliament and about a bill that was in line with the government but also about the amendments. So MOST decided to accept the amendment clubs of the MPs. So we have accepted the SDP amendment, we have accepted the amendment of our colleague Alexic, whom we have already communicated to the Ministry of Justice of these 50,000 kunas. And the Justice Department knew our intentions. We also accepted the amendment by colleagues Lovrinovic that each party in the process carries its share of costs and we think it is very important that our blocked citizens would not only accumulate legal and other costs and other margins. And I think that's one step in the right direction. It also means that we have given some amendments, or important amendments, that will unblock a large part of our citizens, and since morning we have made them clear from this pay phone. So Col. Simic was first on behalf of the promoter and spoke clearly about these amendments. Not a single remark, not a single remark until about 16:00 and I know, so seeing that consent, I went out here for a pay phone and I say this is fantastic, we all agree, I'm afraid only now that these lawyerly, public-marking lobbyes don't start contacting MPs and that this harmony that's ruling in the Croatian Parliament is somehow not disturbed. And right after that comes a fellow SDP officer who's a lawyer by the way, interestingly attacks one of our amendments. And you know what the amendment is? The amendment is such that there are no citizens blocked for life. That we can't keep people blocked for life because it destroys not only those people and their families but it destroys the economy of the Republic of Croatia. These people can't even get a job, they have to work on black or leave Croatia. That is why dear colleagues leave Croatia because they are blocked for life. I assure you that's the reason. And if you just support this MoST amendment, you don't even know how many people we're going to unblock and how many people we're going to save. In addition, we have given an amendment if one account is dead for a year and more and if nothing can be charged to unblock the account. Of course it can be restarted but no more of the interest that has accumulated before. You're not even aware of how many people we're going to save with these amendments. I assure you, even with this amendment by my colleague Lovrinovic, you are not even aware of how many people we will save. A fellow Shucker agreed with this constatation of mine, he had nothing to do with it, he did not take the position of a fellow coat of arms, but he protested against another amendment, also after a colleague of the coat of arms got up and made a fuss here. A fellow Shucker disagreed with our amendment to the protection of the only real estate in the event that the principal's credit was already paid to the creditor. Who's normal against it? Well, that's fair. If a man has returned through what he has returned, if he has returned the principal, why should we be against it? But good fellow Shuker, that's your position, that's your position fellow Shucker and it's okay, and here's the thing, don't support that amendment, but support these others. Support these other amendments, we will help a lot of people in Croatia. Here's the amendment, we won't support it, let's support these amendments that I've talked about before. You know what the worst part is? She tried to subdue the story of how MOST went under the grain to push through, and since morning we've been talking about these amendments, if we wanted to get under the grain of the amendment we'd turn over and no one would know. Well, we gave our colleagues a chance to give you and your colleagues a chance to react. We've been talking about this all day. So nothing was under the grain. And to show how much our constructiveity was about this bill, we accepted all amendments from the government, even the amendment from fellow Babic, and he later withdrew it just so the government wouldn't give an opinion. Please support these amendments, we will save the people. People who are now protesting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38944	Thank you, thank you, comrade Grmoya, please. Let others speak as well. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honorary Representative Davor Bernardic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38945	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable fellow MPs and MPs, we would like to warn you of this series of documents, the Report on the operation of the Croatian Supervisory Board on HRT's business. People who clearly, unequivocally pointed out, showed up, warned about schemes, possible corruption and all those things that happen for Croatian citizens' money. For the 80 kuna subscription to the poor for which there were talks and announcements at the beginning of the government's term that the subscription to the poor will disappear. But of course, that didn't happen. And now these people, directed by HDZ, want to change because they have pointed out irregularities, corruption and potential harmful actions. That's inadmissible. Corruption obviously has no color, I'll remind you of something. So with the public money, with 80 kuna subscription a month, with the money of the Croatian poor woman she pays, you will continue to feed the corrupt octopus that walks the halls. That's true. I received a letter from Mrs. Anja Sovagovic, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, who was or is still the chairman of the HDZ Culture Committee, who stated very clearly and unequivocally that both the arguments and the president of the Committee on Information and the arguments that could be heard on the board, which was called 5 to 12, at the last minute, are shallow. Not enough any normal explanation. And what's the message? Because corruption obviously has no color, no political omens, but there is one structure at this point behind the ruling structure in HDZ, which pushes things over the edge and pushes things into actions that are not honored. And this is not just about Agrokor, this is about HRT and many of the problems Croatia is facing. That should be made clear and loud.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38946	Just a minute, Comrade Bernardic. My colleagues, please, let's just shut up so the speaker can speak normally. Here's my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38947	Today you have the opportunity to show that no matter how much you push, because I believe that there are honest and honest people in this hall on both sides, and you have the opportunity to show that no matter how much you push into a chain of potential conflict of interest and corruption, you can vote for the stay of the supervisory board that pointed out harmful actions. It's a chance here today. What's the message to the people who pointed at the shooting without a trial? You will be removed if you show and point to corruption. It's totally unacceptable. Unfortunately, the government's modus operand is to calm the situation outside, starve, the government acts sedated and premium itself, even in moments of anemic, but below, there is a crime that would not embarrass even the greatest American directors. And that's what you need to say here. And we won't shut up. You can't put the whole nation to sleep. You can put one part of the media to sleep, you can put one part of the people who won't hear, you can put those who are prone to sleep, but you won't put a lot of Croatian people and Croatian citizens to sleep, who warn about the harmfulness of this mode of work and this behavior. If you raise your hand for the shift of people who have warned about corruption, then you are complicit in the same article as the 303. You guys need to be aware of that. I want to tell you from here once again that the media in Croatia should be completely independent, they should be deprived of any political influence and any censorship and probably, I suppose, that in HRT and HRT there will probably not be too many words about this. It will be about the weather for the weekend, whether our beach tourists are dressed well enough this weekend and probably not going to pass this on. But what we have to warn is that people can't move this way just because they've warned about corruption and crime. I invite you to be reasonable. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38948	The next club of MPs is the HDZ Representatives Club and distinguished counterpart Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38949	Thank you very much, esteemed President, colleagues and colleagues. No matter what we said on the board yesterday, what we said here yesterday at the plenary debate obviously some need a little bit more, apparently stories for small children came about by being able to misinformed Mr Bernardic who acted as though he had fallen from the pear. Let's say the gentleman was a member of the Media Committee, so worried about HRT that he didn't even show up on the board. Mr Bernardić almost doesn't appear on the Media Committee at all because he cares so much about what's going on on HRT. But what did Mr Bernardic and the SDP do? They catapulted the Supervisory Board in 2015 when they applied for the shift of Radman, catapulted. Did anyone mention a discussion about a report? So far, no colleagues and colleagues have been discussed, until today. The people were replaced at the same time, the same moment they asked Mr. Rajkovic to continue. You're telling us about the situation on HRT? You changed all the laws to... to and one media house so they can install their people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A special law that the European Commission has written to you, that under every criticism you have brought, that you can install Mr. Radman who forgot to report a hotel in the property card, you have protected him for years. You're telling us about the media and the right... You who are proposing and trying to settle things to reduce the subscription of Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how come you're not ashamed? How can you not be ashamed? Mr Bernardic, you don't have to trust your colleagues with MPs and the HDZ club. Read 4 convictions, 3 Trade Court, one Administrative Court. Somebody read it to you, I'll help you. Read Article 19a. paragraph 3. The law on Croatian broadcasting. And then you'll see what nonsense you've said here at the pay phone. You're telling us who changed the board of directors of HINA, who you were replacing completely with the law that meant political consensus. Why did you change it? If the old 2010 law had remained, it would have been completely different to discuss this subject because you wanted complete control. You've changed the 2010 law. If that law had remained completely different, this topic would have been discussed. You're talking to us! Read the judgments. Your colleagues, your colleagues sitting on the Media Committee, have been accused of cruelly injure the procedure and the law that they have concluded with us that they are going to surrender to a statement during the election. So, a colleague of Glavasevic, a colleague of Stazic, a colleague of Tomic, a colleague of Paric's, you severely violated the procedures according to the Board of Supervisors' report. As for the 2016 Supervisory Board's report, Mr Bernardic will discuss it. I hope you find time to attend that debate. It'd be good, 'cause I can see you're in a lot of trouble. I'm sure you'll refer to the 2015 and 2016 results. This report was delivered at a phone session last Thursday. It will be included in the parliamentary procedure as soon as I have the government's opinion and it will be discussed. The HDZ Club will also discuss it in particular that part not listed in the Supervisory Board's report and should be listed. And also, Mr Bernardic, if you had been accidentally introduced to the Parliamentary Media Committee yesterday, then you would have heard that the first sentence of our debate on that point was about which your colleagues also agreed on the board, that the Assembly Committee also directed it to the DORH and USKOK, that this was to the end of the investigation and we are standing behind it and we are going to do so. And if we're not satisfied with their procedure and work, then we'll set up an investigative commission. Therefore, please concentrate on the official documents of these Croatian institutions. Don't come to us this early, so you picked up the materials in the race, put them under your hand, and you're going to talk to us. You didn't even read it, you didn't even read it. I know, let's let him set things straight. And you'll be surprised, Mr. Bernardic, when the authorities conduct an investigation, so when they see the biggest accounts, who signed them and how they signed them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38950	Thank you very much. We've got three injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so let's take it in a row. He's the first respected colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38951	Thank you very much. Mr. Mesic here, he's mentally injured Article 238, and he'd deserve to be Clark Gable Oscar, seeing as he's copying his style, the mustaches are here, the show's here. You'd deserve an Oscar for this performance if we were on stage. But we're not on stage. ... Wait a minute! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] What's with the anxiety? Are you in a hurry to sea? I mean, are you in a hurry to sea? Look at me. I'm in no hurry. I'd work over the summer if I could, but you're not gonna get an investigative commission. What do I do? Oh, no? ... No, you'd be president. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38952	Thank you. Time's up, buddy Maras. Your time's up. I estimate there hasn't been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Grmo, here you go. [[Intruder Maras: Please!]] Please don't be mad. [[Mr. President.]] There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[/Intruder Maras: No, no. I'm distracted. Well, you saw that I was distracted, I couldn't explain it.]] Here's a colleague of Grmoi's. Comrade Maras, please. [[/Intruder Maras: There's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure just won't let me explain what it is. Don't you?]] You should complain if you feel that I am wrong about the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Intruder Maras: You're wrong./... You're complaining. He's a friend of Grumo's. [[And I'll complain.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38953	President-in-Office, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, paragraph 5, dissuasion and insult of the president or other representatives. So, fellow Mesic insulted the intelligence of all of us here, he thinks we don't understand what this is about. Everything he said about SDP and Radman is true, but the problem is he didn't say what he was doing and what HDZ was doing. So when he accused the SDP, he should have said what HDZ is doing, what his friend and confidant Mislav Stipic is doing on HRT and Darinka Kosor's godfather. All he said was true, but that theater performance, so he should have said what he was doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38954	It's hard to tell if anyone's intelligence was hurt, so we estimate there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's a colleague of Bernardich's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38955	Dear President, Article 238, but not only 238, but also 47, because you did not call, i.e. You've postponed the committee session in an unprepared period. The Rules of Procedure have been injured, Mr. Mesic, because you called a session overnight, and you did not deliver the materials, the additional materials they delivered to you. And because you pushed something until the last one, because you're obviously hiding something. With the amount and intensity you defended, which you defended, the report of this, i.e. the removal of this supervisory board. The only thing I can figure out is that you're deeply involved in this whole story and you're holding on to someone's lottery. It's now evident, it's now clear, it's unequivocal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38956	Thank you. I cannot yet assess whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured, because you have used the term unprepared, so please explain, if you explain to me well, what may be the injured Rules of Procedure... Okay, well, until then, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go to... Here's my colleague Mesic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38957	Excuse me, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Article 238 at the time, Mr Maras, has offended me and this is proof that you should not watch too much television, because the gentleman has been mixed up with the Games of Thrones and cartoons and everything else that leaves her deeply behind. And Mr Bernardić, what you're fantasizing about is published on the official website of the Parliament, I'm sorry, I didn't see you yesterday, so I couldn't deliver it to you, and here I have a memo saying it's a business secret, confidential, so I didn't want to use your phone. Please concentrate. Open the official page of the Parliament. Everything is nice from the attachments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38958	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure and here's a colleague of Maras, but I'm begging you, we're now beginning to abuse... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38959	Yeah, yeah, I'll be right there. So 238nd colleague Mesic, which item 6 Item 6 means, colleague Mesic, offended, and I didn't mean to offend him at all because... [[Intruder Jandroković: Don't talk, don't talk.]] is really a good actor and he obviously likes to express himself here theaterically, so that was commendation, Mr. Mesic, and even physically would probably have gone better, better past, to look who... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't like it when he's performing... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There he is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38960	He's withdrawn the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you're probably pulling it back. Here, thank you all. We move on to the next debate, SDSS Representatives' Club, Honorary colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38961	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. By listening to most of my predecessors, and having in mind the debate we've been having about HRT so far, I can't help but wonder whose HRT is? Whose is it? Whose public service is this? Who has responsibility for him? Who decides on the questions of the report on the programme and financial business? I have no idea it's the Croatian Parliament, based on what we've heard so far, especially on some who are causing damage to the Rules of Procedure. To entertain the people. There are other places to entertain the people and other forms. And the situation on HRT as we know it is from year to year getting worse. Why? Well, among other things, because we're having this kind of discussion. And because we don't have any answer to that house. No matter which party we belong to. And now I'm going to say something about... The conflict between the supervisory board and the administration, not since yesterday, it was at the time of Director Radman, it continues today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is why we didn't deal with it. The committee responsible for information and the media has not dealt with it. In a responsible way, in the way in which someone who really cares about public service should do so. Discussing institutions, planting one institution, the other institution is the general place of condition in our country, and then also on HRT, and it certainly cannot allow institutions to function. And we instead of dealing with it, we act like an extremely irresponsible group of people who want to score small points, and then the maesters from HRT look at us and say great and rub their hands, we'll go on our way back and forth. Yes, colleague Maras will continue as usual, and you may earn a political point for a people who do not know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38962	Please don't win, I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38963	Comrade Maras, you will experience that one day someone will tell you why you will be ashamed to enter this assembly very quickly. Now let me finish because I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38964	Comrade Maras, just a little fellow Pupovac, just a little bit I'm asking you not to throw it away. I have warned and warned once again I will be forced to give you a warning. I don't want to, but if you keep going, I'm gonna have to ask you to be correct and stick to the Rules of Procedure, which is our law and bonton, so please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38965	So, what I'm trying to say on behalf of the SDSS club on this subject. Perhaps the implementation of this shift of the Supervisory Board could have been done differently, but there is no doubt that it is necessary to do something to change the situation. The change of the Supervisory Board, which is on the agenda today without the next two steps, is responsible for preparing the election of new compositions between the main political groups in this House or in agreement with the main political groups in this House will not be enough nor will it be a good job. Neither is the agreement without the next step, and this is a question of reviewing business and dark business corridors on HRT and people managing those corridors, which are also managed by directors in the end line, especially if they are weak and uninterested in their business is the serious problem of the HRT that destroys it. People here mention names, I won't mention them, but they're ringing in our ears, and we in the ruling coalition need to seriously discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38966	Thank you. And the last club of HNS representatives, distinguished counterpart Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38967	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I will briefly look back on what has been brought here, but I have reported primarily for a break, and the reason is the last week, two days of work of the Croatian Parliament and everything that has happened. In fact, we are aware of the circumstances or should be, it is our obligation and political and social and economic circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia is. We are also aware of the facts and situations that the inflow of European money that we expect, which is extremely important for the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia, does not go with the dynamics we would like. We have a situation or a picture every day through the media problems in the east of the Republic of Croatia, family evictions, problems that many of our young people with bread go to the happiness of seasonal character, so to speak seasonally, they have not left the family, and then when you see the opposition that is here in the assembly around which and in what way, not that they are not important topics, but I think that our tasks here and as parliamentary representatives are primarily as political parties that we have to define some priorities. The CNS goal when we entered the coalition government with HDZ was simply to try our example to change the paradigm of political thinking to the Republic of Croatia. Of course, he realizes that this is a long - term process and that there will not be many who will want to follow it or behave in the congregation in this way. HNS is an extremely important content, not politics, not a day-to-day policy that is doing even greater division in our society than they are right now. Our goal is education, a strong economy, new jobs, depolitisation of everything where politics is not needed and on HRT. My colleagues and colleagues, this is an appeal to all of us. This session ends today, the autumn is the beginning of a new period, I believe that, of course, each of us will be able to go on vacation as such and the opportunity to think about our actions and our activities so far. What I would also like to do again, and I said it was extremely important, and I believe that you will all agree with me, the research committee for Agrokor. Yesterday, we said we weren't simply because the State's Attorney's Office is in Agrokor and we expect the State's Attorney's office to do its job. We've also witnessed inappropriate practices in my opinion, perhaps it's politically permissible, but it should still be within certain limits. Let us not fabricate information, let us not falsely talk about certain things and thus manipulate Croatian citizens and Croatian public. The truth cannot be escaped, whatever it may be and whatever it is she has welcomed. Let's be responsible. Constitutional judges, that's the problem. That's the problem, and there's everyone in your section who's responsible. We can't, we're not an isolated island in Europe. Believe me, for the inflow of European money, it is not only high-quality projects that are prepared but it is also an extremely important political stability. Our goal is stable, as well as fair society. My colleagues and colleagues, I didn't mean to lecture because just all of what I'm saying is we're all aware and we all know it. But let's try to be realistic, try to be rational and invite all of us to fall that at least part of what I said, and I repeat what we all know to apply to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38968	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, came from a colleague named Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38969	Article 238(5), violation of Rules of Procedure, dissuasion of MPs. Comrade Batinić, I agree with you that we should be rational, that we should be, I apologize, but it's a humiliation when you say that you agree that it's not a good situation on HRT. Yeah, everything that's, no, it's demeaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38970	Comrade Bull, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38971	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38972	No, no, I won't let you finish, no, no, no, no, this way, the injury...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38973	It's a demeaning of all parliamentary deputies, everything Mr. Mesic said during the Radmans was exactly the HNS doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38974	Hey, buddy Bull!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38975	40 million secret contracts on the salary of an annex contract now have journalists on HTV during the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38976	Comrade Bulj, I beg you, I beg you!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38977	This is a paradigm of lies that has been said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38978	Let's be fundamentally correct. You now know very well that you are violating the Rules of Procedure because there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, what you are doing now is a replica, so you are replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38979	No, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38980	No, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know very well everyone knows that it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because then we can pick up a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure at any hearing. So please, best not to do this because this is still a Parliament that has its own rules that are clearly prescribed so please don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38981	I know he's your coalition partner, Mr. President is going to let me finish and so are you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38982	Finish it now, but I will be forced to no longer give then injuries to the Rules of Procedure in these situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38983	Well, of course you'll be protecting your coalition partners without doing it before, so here's five minutes ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38984	I'm not protecting anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38985	I just wanted to say that the fact that HRT was a purely political toy was also during the SDP and Radman, where we have 40 journalists and during the time of the godfather and during the godfather of Stipic, Mr Kosor, a friend of Mesic and that's a fact. that we have secret pay contracts, 40 million journalists who are not allowed to know the people. [[Intruder president: colleague Bulj, please.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-14-0.u38986	I'm asking you now, colleagues and colleagues. My colleagues and colleagues, please, there is a Rules of Procedure who has prescribed the way this Parliament works and I ask that we all stick to it. He has laid down rules of conduct so that we can function in a civilised manner. And I'm really asking you to stick to what it says.
