ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47081	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like you to take your seats. We're continuing the plenary session. We've got a few hands in the air. Here you go, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The SDP advocates' club is seeking a brief break on the national day of fighting violence against women, to once again warn of this important topic that is of interest to all citizens of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47083	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47084	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club to discuss the black and scary statistics on violence against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47085	Thank you. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47086	I'm looking for a break on the state of justice on behalf of the Independent Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47087	Thank you. Dear Mr Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47088	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, I request a break concerning the amendments, additions to the Law on the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47089	Thank you. Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47090	Dear Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we're looking for a break in violence against women today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47091	Thank you. No one else? All right, I'm setting a break. We'll continue at 9.50. It's 9:00. CONTINUATION AFTER 9:45 A.M. colleague Josko Klisovic. [[Home is not saved.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today is National Day to Fight Violence Against Women. The day which was declared by the Croatian Parliament in memory of three women who were killed in the Zagreb municipal court on September 22, 1999. A year. The figures that exist in Croatia over violence against women are disturbing and require urgent action, emergency action and the Croatian Parliament and state bodies. More than 15,000 women are annually the object of violence for those close to them over themselves. Trend shows that since 2015 compared to 2013 184% have increased domestic violence and violence against women. The number of women killed by close family members is also "stable". We must not tolerate such a situation in Croatia in the 21st century and cannot tolerate it. And that's why I want each and every one of you to wonder if I've done everything I could to change that state, as an agent, as a human being, if I'm encouraging violent men with my behavior and contributing to the fight against violence against women. You will remember that on the International Women's Day of 8 March, the SDP, the SDP Representatives' Club of the SDP, submitted the Law on ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which is currently dealing with this topic, the most modern legal framework that would be strengthened by state authorities in Croatia, state bodies to minimise domestic violence and violence against women. To this day, this bill of law has not come to this House's agenda. A great responsibility for this lies with the Presidency of the Parliament, which determines the agenda. We also remember Prime Minister Plenkovic, who said in 2016 on International Women's Day in the 11th month that he supports ratification of the Istanbul Convention, also in the Assembly in the committees in charge, as Minister Murganic said. What happened today? Nothing. Have we given new powers, a new legal framework, to strengthen state bodies in the fight against violence against women? We didn't. It's our responsibility here in the Parliament, and that's why I want you to come to work every day to think of it. I did not contribute to the fight for women's rights, daughters, mothers, women living in Croatia. On the contrary, yesterday before the National Day Against Violence Against Women, we at our benches have messages that we are against ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not an ideological question and don't treat it like that, it's a question of protecting the human dignity of more than 50% of the country's citizens, it's a question of civilization achievements. There's nothing to justify and there's no justification for domestic violence, violence against women. It is sad to see in the European Parliament HDZ MPs sharing in this matter, so half of them vote for ratification of the Convention, half vote against ratification of the Convention. So what is it? What kind of society do we live in? Are we going to turn every question into an ideological question? And the question when a woman gets a hand in the head, a bullet in the head, and that's ideology for some. That's enough. I have sent a parliamentary question to Prime Minister Plenkovic why this convention is not on the agenda and whether the government supports its ratification. The answer I received was that the convention also has financial repercussions, which is true, it is necessary to provide funding to state authorities to fight violence against women and therefore cannot support the bill that came from the SDP. So, in our democracy, did the right of legislative initiative, the right to propose laws, begin to be taken away from the MPs in the House? That's something new. And what laws? A law on ratification of a convention that should contain violence against women. It's embarrassing. And so I ask you once again to raise your voice that we have that consensus that we had here in the debate when we discussed in our Law on the fight against domestic violence and that we go with the ratification of that convention to reduce the number of women subjected to violence and strengthen the state bodies in the fight against violence against women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47094	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47095	Thank you, Vice President. Here are 19 years ago at the Zagreb municipal court on September 22, 1999, during a divorce case, a police officer killed his wife, Mrs. Gordana Orasković, her lawyer, Hajru Prohic, Judge Ljiljana Hvalec, and wounded her notary Stanko Cvetkovic. In memory of this extremely tragic event today we mark the National Day of Combating Violence against Women. Unfortunately, violence in its increasingly brutal and increasingly cruel form doesn't happen to someone else and somewhere else, it doesn't happen in the past, it's around us now. Over 300 women have been killed in Croatia in the last 10 years alone. Although the family community should actually be a safe environment, the environment of a lot of love unfortunately statistics show that police daily for domestic violence intervene 45 times. Imagine the number of 45 interventions a day for domestic violence. Every third woman in our country is a victim of domestic violence. It's a terrible fact that 8 women were killed in the first eight months of this year. So our statistics are on 30 days killing one woman. This must not happen and these are more than devastating tasks. Unfortunately, what is even more worrying is that victims are not reported for violence by the perpetrators because of untimely reactions of the environment and because of the minimum penalties for the perpetrators but are unfortunately forced to remain silent and patient, dare not speak, dare not go public with their problems. The number of shelters we have in our country for victims is less than the number of counties we have. So to whom shall the women turn, where shall the woman go when the victim of violence is in the family, to whom shall he turn, where shall she go? Shut up, guys. I don't want to be silent anymore. I don't want to use silence to encourage the perpetrators, and I don't want to condone violence. None of us can keep our mouths shut. We need to speak publicly, talk more and more about violence against women because unfortunately the number that suffers terror is enormous, the time to wait is no more. We have this year passed the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, but that is not enough. That is why I appeal to anything to ratify the Istanbul Convention as a concrete step towards the protection of human rights as soon as possible. I find it unacceptable that there are certain stakeholders who speak publicly against the Convention, that there are also MPs who do not want to accept this document. HNS is never and will never give up fighting for women and thus for the rights of every man in society and for the progress and development of society itself. I believe that in our society despite the imposition of twisted standards by individuals who shamelessly promote humility, subjugation, and secondaryity as one normal and acceptable pattern of women's behavior. I believe there is enough reason and enough political will and I invite you all together to ratify in this House the Istanbul Convention and make it a binding legal document that will greatly improve the level of protection of all those who suffer violence. I'm not second-guessing, I don't want my daughter to be second-guessed one day, I don't want any girl and any woman in our Republic to be second-guessed, I don't want her to think she doesn't matter. Let's not keep our mouths shut because violence has no excuse and violence doesn't happen to anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47096	Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47097	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Chaos in the judiciary, it's about this subject today, this one we're talking about, violence against women. A free law if you don't have the mechanisms to implement it, if we have pure amateurism, chaos in the judiciary, unarranged laws and what happens to women. How to describe the situation in the Croatian judiciary, there is a joke. A conference of Croatian fair judges in Sheraton was held recently in Zagreb, both of which appeared. We need to understand one thing, without a legal framework for investment, no one will come here. This country's 50 people... There are no new ones, no values come true, no strategic investments, when people see this, this report around the judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People come to me every day. A man came yesterday, since '91. He's been looking for a return of his property that some local barons, the bandits, signed off on, came with a lawyer. She's asking me what to do. Well, I say you're a lawyer. And that's how it works. It comes from outside, invests 10 million euros in a factory in Lica, 3 years it stands, it ends... Four years, fourth year, he can't get permission from the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What kind of message is that to people who... Here? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is still the wild west here. We're just playing that plural democracy. Under the facade of that democracy is this legal chaos. Yesterday Mr. Misic also spoke of these blockades, the bureaucratic red tape. What's going on in the field? I've been walking there recently through Pisarovina. Areas are being pulled out of oak forests. Robbed, you've got illegal dumps in the field. In Croatia you have the most professional beggars in Zagreb. When we talk about the protection of women, which of these top Democrats here, redesigned communists? Who speaks for the Roma community up there where women are put on the street to beg and their children in diapers there freeze to minus 30? Where's the law? We have selective laws and selective morals from some of these people who are there, there are human rights defenders, etc. Pure smoke curtain. In the end, how do you solve that legal yawn? Here, first you have to professionalize the administration, this mechanism, it's the military, the judicial police, etc. You won't get a cop for 5 grand, pro. Because when he comes to a house where there's domestic violence, his life is at stake. How many of you have been stopped here on the road where a cop asks him for bribes? That's the rest of the Balkans and these militias that came here in '45. And those who took away apartments, confiscated retirement, took away property, and raised chickens in the piano. We still have that mental set of Balkans here. That's the first one. Professionalization of personnel. Night courts. In Canada, I've worked for 10 years in law enforcement, there are night courts working day and night for non-criminal crimes, you come, it grinds. You didn't pay child support, if it's violence against women, and it's like that, you have bandits, you have 10 mistresses, a woman, you care about him, ten kids, it's always a slippery banana, it's some kind of, uh, slippery banana, two crusts, sex and money, and you won't pay for kids, I've worked there, I've arrested you, you've got three kids, you haven't paid child support, says Mr. Smith, phone $4000 and 4 months in custody, over. And there's nothing here. Standard procedures for performance of work, how is work evaluated? Some judges solve two cases, these other hundred. I'm boasting a red cameraman from the former system, Judge, that he hasn't solved any in his term in the former state of affairs. My friend, I'd shoot him, but unfortunately I can't, we don't have a country like that yet. What else? Lustration must begin in the judiciary, not because they are a threat to national security and have moved to Belgrade because they do not know how to work. Until we get rid of the legacy, the legal legacy of the SFRY, there's nothing to it. How do you... The doctrine and NATO pact, so do not interfere with those laws, and the failed social experiment, still sitting here, these are heirs to this failed social experiment and modern continental law... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] etc. In the end, stop at every paper, establish a rat line to beat these barons, these citizens of ours who are conscious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47098	Thank you very much, Mr. Glasnović. Mr. Panenic from MOST is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47099	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I wanted to inform you, inform the Croatian public that MOST is sending independent lists for the second time into the procedure of amending and supplementing the CNB Act. Last time the ruling majority came across a convenient time of instability between governments that this law says that not all procedures are respected, we did not once again ask the European Central Bank for its opinion. Although the first opinion was unconditional, they had no objections but here, for two, three small changes, it was important to ask them one more time. So it's no problem, let's send it to the procedure, let's ask them again, and then once we get that point in line, hopefully here's where it's going to be that I can't do what I want, so our prime minister can do what he wants, so that the President of the Parliament doesn't do what he wants, that this law, the bill, the amendment and the addition of the law, we get in the agenda because looking at it if we can, so the CNB can do what they want, too, because the only thing we can're not going to see is how they manage the funds they're assigned. We can't check their financial reports, we can't know if they're all listed in the media or not. I wouldn't want us to leave it that way because what message are we sending? We're sending a message that it's violence. Here is what my colleagues and colleagues used to say today, that violence is not happening to someone else, and this is the violence that is happening to all of us, and we also bring violence to our young people because when they leave Slavonia, Like, from other parts of Croatia, why, because they no longer trust the system because they see that the system cannot control itself, let alone let alone Croatian citizens have insight into what is happening. I'm going to call once more, not just you, to get involved in this debate, to bring a common position, we had about it in particular with HDZ representatives, when we were putting together the previous government, to include our colleagues from the HNS because it was, in principle, everyone seemed to have been looking forward to being against someone who didn't mind. Of course, let us not forget that this proposal will not be enough if it is adopted, if the Ministry of Finance can do what it wants. They promised that amendments to the State Audit Act would take place on the agenda, there are no or no notices. In the process of altering normative activity, I haven't seen them. So, I'm just pointing out that, on this subject we've been discussing, it's been a mess not only in the assembly, but in the public, and everyone wants this to happen, it can't happen if we don't adopt this proposal, it can't happen if the Ministry of Finance doesn't make changes to the law in the State Audit. If necessary, here I would pray, if the Government will be shown not to want to do so, so we will make that amendment to the State Audit Act again, just to introduce a single provision, that the State Audit can audit the CNB within the framework of what the European Central Bank considers appropriate, we agree. We don't enter monetary policy, we just want to resolve that what we control, both us here and the government and the ministry and all the others, that this report comes here to the Parliament and that the public can have insight into business and not more into media inscriptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47100	Thank you, too. Mrs. Irena Petrievcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go, Irene.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47101	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since today is an international day and we are marking the fight against violence against women, I will not repeat the statistics because we have all had the opportunity to hear this and today the daily newspaper on this subject is quite committed. We asked for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club not only once more to stress that we are declared and theoretically against violence against women and not only violence against women, but violence in general, as it is said in the most vulnerable groups of society, women and children, but against all forms of violence, including peer violence, violence in schools, domestic violence and so on. cheerleading violence. In order for Croatian society to experience transformation into non-violent, and now we know that it is not necessary to say what are currently the problems we need to solve. It is a key coordination of all actors in this area, such as institutions, commissions, working groups, civil society. Because we often have a situation that repeats itself over and over again, so that as we say so in a colloquial way from the forest we don't see a tree. And we know well what the Parliament has done as a legislative body in this assembly, and it contributes to the fight against violence against women. But you need to say what else you need to do. I said that they overlap often, and I said that when it came to the law that we voted on, almost identical projects and programs often overlap. There's often no money left. We've got a national team, we've got a county team, they're taking a series of activities. But the financial situation in the resolution ministries often did not allow for the realisation of all the necessary programmes and projects and of course objectives. And that's how they testify, and unfortunately these defeating data that we have the opportunity to read these days in the papers, the movement of crime in the area of violence against women and in general in the family. But not to make it look like it's all about money, because really money isn't crucial, and even though it's important for the realisation of the goals because it's not the message of this break most of it really needs to be made clear and loudly is the problem of consciousness, the problem of individual but also social consciousness. And we know that consciousness is developing, and I've often emphasized it, and we all know it well from kindergarten and from school and from work, but mostly from family. And unfortunately today, we are witnessing that society is increasingly advanced technologically, but at the same time it is as if a level of devastation has prevailed, as if the "big beardation" of society had prevailed, so if we are to say, the devastation of people to objects. Well, of course that applies most to women. And that's why coordination of all actors in society is important, because one resolution ministry or two cannot solve the problem on their own. To be clear, no one is saying that violence is an ideological problem, no one who is seriously accessing the problem of violence. Violence has never been an ideological question, nor will it ever be. The bully is a bully regardless of ideology, regardless of his worldview, and also independent of the degree of education. And that is why, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to make it clear that we will not accept the verification of this issue of violence as ideological. We can say that violence is a shame, not ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47102	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47103	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.10 HOURS]] A colleague of Petrov's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47104	Dear President of the Parliament, I demand a break on behalf of the Bridge Club on the subject of foreign Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47105	I didn't understand. Wait a minute. I beg your silence. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47106	On behalf of the Bridge Club, I request a 10-minute break regarding the position of Croatian foreign policy in relation to... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47107	Please also on behalf of GLAS stop regarding also foreign policy towards Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47108	Here I am looking on behalf of the HDZ Club for a break regarding Croatia's foreign policy, Slovenia, but after the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47109	Comrade Bauk, Bunyan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47110	Mr. President and the SDP Club are looking for a break for the same reasons as the previous clubs, and we are ready to accept that it is held after the vote, if that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47111	Okay. It's a muzzle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47112	The Honorable President on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the same subject as my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47113	Okay. A fellow white man.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47114	Your Honor, on the same subject, we're looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47115	Okay. Here we have six requests for a break. I'd like to give Stanko a vote if you'd agree. So, let's go vote out and then we'll have a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47116	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13.05 HOURS]] The first break was requested by the Most, Mr. Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47117	Dear MPs, I called for a break due to Slovenian Prime Minister Cerar's announcement that he would not come to an agreed meeting in Zagreb with Prime Minister Plenkovic, who was called for September 27th because of the prime minister's speech at the UN Assembly where he actually repeated the official Croatian view that arbitration for us is contaminated, that there is no arbitration decision for us. Therefore, this reaction by Prime Minister Cerar is unusual, unless Prime Minister Plenkovic negotiated from Croatia with Prime Minister Cerar before meeting with opposition leaders who do not comply with Croatian official policies. I just have to say that the meeting with the opposition leaders, I at least characterised it as odd. Turns out the Prime Minister invited us to a meeting to ask if he could talk to his colleague at the time he went to sell HEP partner to the government for the sale of the largest energy company he hasn't asked and asked us if he could talk to his colleague for permission. Because that's the impression we have, we haven't heard anything else at that meeting. We didn't hear the views of the Prime Minister, we didn't hear either what he was talking about but with his colleague Cerar, or his position in those negotiations. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to appear as quickly as possible in the Parliament or on the Committee on Foreign Policy or in the Assembly where a thematic session can be held with this issue. I believe that in sensitive relations with Slovenia, the prime minister should seek support from all sides for his positions at a time when he is moving into negotiations, not soften Croatian attitudes to start negotiations because at that moment the Slovenian side can expect only more. And apparently today, when it shows disappointment and Croatia has not changed at all, at least according to what the Prime Minister said at the UN Assembly, it has not changed its official position, it is very strange that the Slovenian side is disappointed about it. And I will tell you again, the president of the Croatian government and Prime Minister Cerar agreed on a meeting that was now cancelled before they met with the opposition leaders. Andrej Plenkovic confirmed at the meeting that the arbitration decision is not to be accepted, he confirmed it publicly at the UN Assembly at the time the opposition leaders told him in turn that the arbitration decision was not valid for us. He could only confirm after that, Prime Minister Cerar became angry afterwards and you can conclude for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47118	Thank you very much. Mrs Vesna Pusic on behalf of GLAS and Croatian pensioner's orange.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that the GLAS and HSU Club is also disappointed by the performance of Prime Minister Plenkovic in the general assembly. Not because of what he said, but because of what he was talking about. The UN General Assembly is not a place to open a topic that is currently under negotiation. It's a topic that is now for silent diplomacy. Prime Minister Plenkovic received absolute pay and support at a meeting he called in the government to speak with Slovenian Prime Minister Cerar. There are hundreds of other topics in this situation that can be talked about and that are important for Croatia in such a place as the UN General Assembly. This is one topic that 99.9% of people sitting there do not understand, for which we absolutely cannot get support at such an event, and it is clear that the only possible result is that the Slovenian side will then withdraw from such a kind of negotiations. Especially since we know that within Slovenia there exists and there has been pressure on Prime Minister Cerar not to come to Croatia and not to participate in this kind of conversation, and in our deep conviction it is the only way that this conflict or opposition can be resolved in a civilized way. And there was a chance and we hope that there is still a chance that this recommendation can be resolved in a civilized way, acceptable both sides, so one way that both sides can live with. But by opening this topic at the UN General Assembly, the chance has decreased significantly. In solving each conflict, participants in the conflict are also partners in resolving the conflict. And that's why they have to take care of what's possible for the other side, I haven't been to the meeting but from what we've read, which we've been informed if the prime minister has called us as opposition parties and all the other parties asking if we're for arbitration then he missed the topic. If he called us to ask us if he could talk to the Slovenian prime minister, then he was wasting both our time and his time. This home clearly took the view in 2015 that we are withdrawing from arbitration for reasons I think we do not have to repeat here. The prime minister also asks us if he needs to talk to his colleague, so that's his job. I expected that this meeting would discuss or be informed about what steps were taken in this direction, and what are the next steps that the Prime Minister or Government would like to take, of which we have heard nothing. As SDP, we don't have to support the prime minister to talk to his colleagues, as I said, that's his job, but if he wants our support in solving this problem, then we have to have information. We didn't get that. The UN General Assembly is definitely not a stage for such a problem, as counterpart Pusic said. Do you really believe that representatives of, say, the Republic of South Africa, the Kingdom of Tonge or Peru are important borders between Croatia and Slovenia and whether they know anything about this problem at all? If you hear from your colleagues from the world that Croatia does not respect international law, it is not a problem for Slovenia, it is our problem or it is the problem of our diplomacy and the work of our diplomacy should be, constantly warn and show Croatian views why we are making certain moves, why we have withdrawn from arbitration that we have done so in a legal and legitimate way, that we have had very good reasons and that this decision has ultimately reached the most legislative body of our country unanimously. If our partners in Europe don't know that, then that's what I think our problem is, and then we need to seriously ask ourselves what we're doing, whether we're actively trying to be the solution to this problem or creating ourselves a problem. In the diplomatic dictionary, we think the prime minister has made a diplomatic... absolutely unnecessary provoking of conflict. Of course, if my colleague Cerar had taken advantage of it, I would probably have done the same if I were in his position. We all agreed to talk, to calm tensions, to talk cold heads. And I think we need a message from the big states that clearly said, some of them that this is a bilateral issue, and that's how it should be solved. It's a message to us, too, but it's also a message to the Slovenian side. This performance, this... did not help solve this problem because we know that the colleague Cerar also had pressure from his own party, as well as from the Slovenian public. And in the end, I can only ask one rhetorical question that I would like to hear the answer to. So the President of the Republic is sucreating the foreign policy of the United States, our Prime Minister is creating a world policy and threatening North Korea and so on, and I wonder if any of them are engaged in Croatian foreign policy because that's their business that's their corporate business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47120	Thank you, Mr. Hajdukovic. Mr Branimir Bunjac in front of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47121	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So we have a situation for Croatia to discuss the arbitration ruling it withdrew from in July 2015. It is important to stress, however, that the compromise of arbitration for which Croatia has withdrawn in the international court is not assessed enough to break the process or that the court could not adopt an independent measure. No matter what, the Croatian Parliament made its decision in 2015, so two years and two months ago unanimously and there should no longer be any dispute about it. The decision is there, we have withdrawn, and in our opinion there has been plenty of time for Croatia to take steps to resolve the situation. We're now at the end of the story that we've been waiting for the verdict from the dispute that we've withdrawn from, we've been waiting for her, hoping for what? What were we hoping for? What will happen when that verdict is finally passed? The prime minister's answer to that question has not been received. As far as I'm aware, and I've made an effort to even go read that verdict, there are 350 pages, I don't know if you've seen it, there's more maps. I was particularly interested in Međimuri from which I came but now it doesn't matter, in that ruling 82% of Croatian demands were accepted, territorial. Slovenians were looking for an exit to the open sea, they didn't get it, I read it not the way they wanted it. If she lost something, she lost a part of the Savadria Wave, she got a little less than she wanted. And I would like Prime Minister Plenkovic to tell us now, not some phantom opinion, but to tell us what in that verdict is really not good when we've been waiting for her, what's not good? What else could Croatia possibly gain from negotiations without having? Is it possible that 100% of the demands for ours to be fulfilled, would the verdict then be accepted? In any case, by calling the opposition, the prime minister has shown that he has no solution, that he only tried to protect himself with this one meeting, it also showed this speech yesterday in New York and what is very important to say that he has no answer and that is the answer to Mr Kovac, who says the prime minister will solve problems with Slovenia. They're not gonna get rid of them. Not only because we have a problem with Slovenia, but because the entire Croatian foreign policy is a wandering policy. We've been looking at this for a year, so one dilettantism, where we've spent foreign policy just ghettoization, where we've managed to fight with all the neighbors. That I no longer know whether HDZ members speak of Bosnia or speak of Milorad Dodig. The same rhetoric is used according to Bosnia from Croatia, from Republika Srpska. Where Hungary is blocking us, why, we've been waiting with that stock buyout since December last year announced by the bridge. What has the Croatian judiciary done all these years, that has allowed this whole thing to escalate? When we solve problems with the Slovenians, how are we going to block negotiations with the OECD when the Hungarians are there? How are we going to unblock any negotiations when we read in the media that the president and the bridge are arguing over politics towards Ukraine, and from the same parties are reportedly. If it wasn't time to go to Ukraine now, says the president, and the prime minister says it's time, then we're fighting with the Russians, and we expect Putim to come to Croatia or to meet with him, I don't know where he is right now. Instead of approaching the EU that the diameter so much wants as the mainstream, as some thoughtstream, we have a policy of full submission to the United States in foreign policy. We meet the blind demands of the Embassy in Buzin, unnecessarily buy American planes, send 300 soldiers to the Russian border, and that is now foreign policy. What do we imagine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47122	Thank you very much, Mr. Bunjac. Mr. Kresho Beljak from the Club of Representatives of the Peasant Party... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear former foreign ministers, Mrs Pusic, Mr Stier, Mr Kovac. First of all, I would like to stress that diplomacy and foreign policy are only of national interest. All those who deal with foreign policy, and you know it very well, should first have a Croatian national interest. There are no eternal alliances, no friendships, etc. etc. And one of the basic national strategic interests of any country that has good neighbourly relations with its first neighbours. And not with any neighbors. With Slovenia, Croatia had only an administrative limit for almost 1,000 years. Or within the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and within Yugoslavia, so for the past 25 years, we have been calling that "right" and then Croatia's entry into the EU, where the border has turned into something that has never been in history, including that unfortunate wire. In order to solve these problems, obviously Croatia's diplomacy has no answer today, i.e. it has an answer, but Croatia's diplomacy is unfortunately not driven by diplomats today, but is being led by people from the headlines of the weekly, with today's date, so the Minister is very seriously accused on the cover of the weekly 24 hours that her husband is involved in an affair of a difficult billion euros. I know that fellow Kovac, especially Mr Stier, understands foreign policy very well. I know that from this ruling set within HDZ they've been removed from the ceiling, they've been kind or forceful, I know they don't agree with that, but as engineers' soldiers, they'll respect what's agreed on at a higher level. But then it's no longer a national interest. That is why I call especially on you to look first of all at the Croatian interest, because you know that it is our interest to deal with Slovenia and the Slovenian people, as soon as possible, if we can talk about a more serious dispute at all about the border. Because if there is a dispute with Slovenia, then it's a nuclear power plant, then it's the Ljubljanska banka, it's much more serious and much more interesting disputes. And when I speak on behalf of us and in the personal name that we live near the border, I will tell you that the dispute, as far as the border is concerned between us and the neighbours on the other side of the border, or... It's never been or gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, there are real disputes, real issues that need to be opened and I invite you to take within the party, within your party to choose your views, and I am sure that both Mr. Kovac and Mr. Stier are very high-quality diplomats and very high-quality experts regarding foreign policy. That you are involved in this solution, not letting the diletes dealing with private business and affairs weigh a billion euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u47124	Thank you, too. We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal for a law on the validation of the Protocol on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea from pollution resulting from research and exploitation of the epicontinental belt, seabed and marine underworld, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 181. Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia Proposing the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted proposals from the proposing that this legislative proposal should be discussed by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate referred to in Article 197. Rules of Procedure. So far, the debate has been conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation? With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Protection, the Environment and Energy Mr. Mile Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49972	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, I will explain on behalf of the legislator of this law, the Ministry of Protection, the environment and energy, the reasons for proposing this law, and I will try to say some of the essential elements contained in this Protocol. The Act confirming the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against contaminants stemming from research and exploitation of the epicontinental belt, seabed and marine underworld is one of the 7 accompanying protocols of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean, etc. The Barcelona Convention. That protocol was signed by the Republic of Croatia on 14 October '94. years in Madrid. The Protocol itself shall discuss the implementation of Article 7. The Barcelona Convention, which stipulates that the Contracting Parties will take all appropriate measures to prevent, suppress and eliminate, to the greatest extent possible, the pollution of the Mediterranean Sea area caused by research and exploitation of the continental seabed and the marine underworld. And these are the main posts of this protocol from the Barcelona Convention. The Republic of Croatia is largely focused on the maritime economy and tourism by taking measures to prevent the mitigation, suppression and control of sea pollution and all potential sources including coastal installations is a prerequisite for achieving and maintaining the good state of the marine environment. In the second half of the 20th century, extensive research was conducted in the North Adriatic sub-sea with the aim of finding and identifying economically valuable quantities of natural gas. On the Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea, 128 investigative and 51 exploiting wells were made. Commercial gas exploitation starts in '99. A year. Currently in the northern part of the Adriatic, there are 18 gas-exploitation platforms in the area of Istria, and one compression platform to which 51 detonating wells are connected within three hydrocarbon minefields and these are the fields of Isabel, the northern Adriatic and Marica, from which an average of about 1.2 billion cubic metres of gas is obtained annually. Given the current exploitation of hydrocarbons from the Adriatic, it is of paramount importance to strengthen environmental protection measures. The safety and protection of the environment is a matter of primary interest. In view of the existing exploitation of hydrocarbons from the North Adriatic sub-seas, we believe that the confirmation of the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea is of exceptional interest to the Republic of Croatia as a result of the exploration and exploitation of the continental seabed and the marine underworld. I will remind the Republic of Croatia of the issue of research and exploitation of the continental seabed and marine underground belt and protection measures are regulated and prescribed first by the Mining Law and the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which regulates the activities and research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, which is in line with all EU directives. EU Directive 20/13 on safety from coastal oil and gas activities and amending Directive 20/04 has also been transposed into national legislation by the adoption of a Coastal Research Safety Act and the exploitation of NN No. 78/2015. A year. For the purposes of the above-mentioned objectives, it has been approached to confirm the Protocol in order to ensure its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This Protocol obliges the Contracting Party to take the necessary measures, individually or through bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent, mitigate, suppress or control pollution in the Mediterranean Sea. The Protocol also defines requirements for the authorisation of research, exploitation and content of those approvals themselves. The implementation of this Protocol shall ensure that the best available technology that is effective in protecting the environment and also economically acceptable is used for the purpose of environmental protection. The Protocol prescribes the obligations of the parties to the signatories relating to the use and storage of chemicals for the activities in question, the signing of standards for the supply of oil, oil mixtures, waste water, municipal waste produced in the facility itself, as well as the facilities for acceptance of the specified land. The obligation of the parties to ensure that the operator takes safe measures, as well as equipment and devices of sudden intervention, is prescribed. It is prescribed that operators have plans to intervene in the prevention of sudden pollution. Confirmation of the protocol in addition to the pollution prevention measures shall ensure mutual information between the parties on the measures taken, the results achieved and any difficulties in applying the protocol, enabling mutual assistance in the event of sudden events, ensuring cooperation in determining the liability and compensation of the damage caused by the hydrocarbon exploitation activities. Obligations shall also be established for the removal of the plant after termination of its use. And finally, given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts which the state also formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract and the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is not possible to change and supplement the text of an international contract such a normative solution that we have proposed here is only possible. As in the Republic of Croatia, these issues under the responsibility of the three ministries, the law enforcement will be carried out under its jurisdiction by the State Administration responsible for the economy as the central authority of the State Administration, responsible for research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, by the State Administration responsible for the protection of the environment and nature as the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the protection of the sea and the marine environment and the public administration responsible for maritime, transport and infrastructure as the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the pollution of the sea from ships and from coastal objects, and by coordinating the management of the sudden pollution operations of the sea. Following the above, it is proposed to adopt a Act confirming the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against contaminants resulting from research and exploitation of the epicontinental belt, seabed and marine underworld. I will also finally say that the Legislative Committee has also sent one amendment to this text of the bill, it is normative in nature to Article 4 where the words of NN No are added in Article 4 behind the words of international contracts. 28/96. Therefore, it is a nomotechnical addition of this legal statement and the applicant accepts this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49973	... First Mr. Sagar. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49974	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. Yesterday in this House we were talking about the Croatian land and the underworld, today we are talking about the Croatian sea and the submarine, and in a way again, let me say a little bit more vividly about the underworld. Why do I say that? You've very well explained the intensity of this bill and of course it should be supported, there's no speech at all as urgent and as good as possible. But we're just talking about shape here, so let's get a little under the hood. You mention three ministries that will be responsible for the implementation of this agreement, but we had a report here in the Croatian Assembly of State Audit on the exploitation of mineral raw materials. The state audit says 10% of the amount of hydrocarbons obtained is low, the State's audit says it should consider introducing a profit tax on the amount of hydrocarbons obtained, as some countries do anyway. And then watch out for the Ministry of Economy says if I don't want to get involved in this, it's got nothing to do with us. What now, we're those contracts someone signed on our behalf but it's not with us anymore. Even when my colleague Holly asked them for answers and to subscribe those contracts, they referred to the Ministry of Science and Education. They deal with these research issues that the Republic of Croatia signed with Norwegians, right? So there was a way out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then what happens? The Ministry of Environmental Protection says in its explanation, we will not raise that fee because it would deter potential investors. Careful, the Ministry of Environmental Protection says it would deter potential investors, not to increase the fee of 10% and given the contracts signed, this is the deal on the division of hydrocarbons and the contract with Spectrum with Norwegians. So, that's the Ministry of Environmental Protection. We have here, it seems to me, that's what I said and then, a systemic error and that's the worst. In a systemic error whatever, if we do something good, it'll end up bad. And now that I'm replicating you, of course, it turns out I'm replicating to the wrong address. This is where you should refer this question to someone from the Ministry of Economy. So the law on this protocol is quite fine, but in practice whether it will actually achieve the effect we want, I can doubt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49975	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond to the replica? Mr. Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49976	I mean, I would have responded to this last finding, so I'm not going into a previous debate. I appreciate the debate of a respected fellow parliamentary representative, but I would answer, therefore, there should be no skepticism here as to what effect this law will produce. This law is a form to introduce the protocol we have signed into domestic legislation. Only through the legal form can the protocol be introduced into domestic legislation and already the EU has, on the basis of this Protocol, designed its directives that bind all other members. So we don't have some big maneuvering space here, which is why I said at some point this has to be adopted. It may sound imperative but it is definitely a form that must be accepted because we are a member of the EU, because it is the only possible way to communicate with other countries related to the protection of the Mediterranean with all its elements.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49977	Thank you very much. Second replica. Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49978	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would just like to remind this Parliament and representatives of the Government for 2014 and 2015 when there was an initiative, colloktically referred to as "the drilling of the Adriatic" or an initiative on the exploitation of hydrocarbons here on our Adriatic. There are two things, one idea is that the Italians are exploiting, we're going to exploit, and the other thing is the project itself that documented this process of exploitation. The project was at least dilettaneal, charlatanically, I remember the debate, I was not yet a representative, I was on the Environment Committee here in the Assembly, I guess there were 50 associations, there were representatives of the Oceanographic Institute, a number of other prominent institutions, there were sea mistakes in that documentation, number of earthquakes, no payouts, I don't even remember anymore, it was a long, long list of scientifically incorrect information that Minister Vrdoljak wanted to frame both the Croatian public and Croatian science and Croatian politics. I am glad that this project has failed, it is also a bad idea because the Croatian coast is not the Italian coast or Croatia is Norway. We, how much, 18% of the direct economy is tourism, indirectly up to half of some studies at the time they told us and you can't have exploitation on the Croatian coast and tourism, you have to choose. But what is not yet foreseen in the whole process is the fact that a Adriatic submarine such as a chess board is scattered by zones where NATO's alliance put down its weapons. Maybe you don't know that, maybe Croatian politics don't know that, but NATO knows, they know big oil companies. So if someone went down to drill, maybe they'd step on the area where the explosives were dropped, maybe someone would die, who knows what might happen. So you have here Annex 2, where the harmful substances, barium and pine are listed, is that taken into account in this thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49979	Thank you, Mr. Sincic. Would you like to answer that? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49980	I know that these are interesting topics, but in the procedure before the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a new proposal for a law on the exploitation of hydrocarbons and research, it will soon come here for the tide before you, and you will have opportunities to see and discuss then the new model that is being prepared in this law for the exploitation of hydrocarbons that will be financially much more favourable to the Republic of Croatia than it is now, so I ask you to take advantage of the opportunity then to channel these topics according to that law, and now this is a protocol that needs to be discussed but we must accept it as a fact that we have already signed in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49981	Thank you very much. Third replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49982	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, you as an environmental expert, I'm also asking you about the submarine. I ask you, have you met, here you are saying that we are purely protocol, that we will sign, implementation is as important as ever but the fact that Croatia did not have a sovereign policy and that we have not declared an exclusive economic belt and the fact is that you were just mentioning oil, oil and waste water from tankers that lead to oil refineries, that they wash themselves in international waters on our Adriatic Sea and create a stain. Are you familiar with that and are you in control? And what we bring in the Parliament now, we bring out of these protocol obligations that were signed just to sign, and that our signers are depicted as people who care about our sea and the sea. The fact that exploitation and hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea, what the former government did, that is. HNS Minister for Signing Research, who knows where the results are, whose results, regardless of what the Adriatic Sea has been threatened, and we know how much the sea means to us purely in tourism and what the revenues from tourism are and what you have done in terms of reduced washing, tankers, these ships when they leave, i.e. empty to wash out all those tanks, where the stain is created, say experts with a larger surface than the city of Split, but because of the current, it has not yet come but our shores. It's one big threat to our sea, our beaches and the development of our tourism, and what we bring in in protocol, and in implementation nothing will be done, we can talk about it all day long, there's nothing to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49983	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49984	I thank you, Reverend Bully, I didn't even say I was an expert, and especially not an expert on what I represent right now. I'm a secretary of state, a political figure in this ministry. However, this, but I am no less an expert than predecessors, therefore, there are people in this ministry, professionals exist, one serious ministry that counts a respectable number of experts, who have devoted their lives to this profession. It's mine to represent them, not to be a top expert here, for what you expect me to be. And to every one of your questions, you can expect a quality and quick written response from the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49985	Thank you very much. And the last replica, Mr. Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49986	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, clearly we accept the entry of European directives into our legislation, but are we keeping an eye on our living conditions in certain ecological, exploitation fields? You, as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, can certainly influence the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because the regulation that has been adopted for exploitation fields of 10% is embarrassing compared to other European countries that pay up to 20% of local self-government units. And I think that you like, I know, that you can't make a decision, but I think you can influence the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to change that regulation and really level with the fees for the exploitation fields, as other European countries do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49987	Thank you, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49988	I thank you, Your Honor. So, as I said earlier in the intelligence of this ministry is the adoption of a new draft law on the exploitation of hydrocarbons and it is now in the process and will be discussed with you. And that's exactly what's going to be the central theme of these new changes. So we're the ones who're going to pass on a new model, along with, of course, consulting and the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49989	Thank you very much. It is now up to the Committee's first rapporteurs, so the Committee on Law, to protect the environment and nature. Does he want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we've got, I'm opening a debate, we've got clubs. First is Mr. Slaven Dobrović, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49990	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary representatives, state secretaries and associates. So, before us is the proposal for a bill to confirm the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea from the impurity resulting from research, the use of the epicontinental belt, the seabed and the marine underworld. What's this about? So it's actually about implementing Art. 7. So-called The Barcelona Convention, which is the full name of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean, which, as you may have heard, Croatia has signed and, of course, that this law, i.e., the confirmation of this Protocol, is important and there is nothing disputed. Therefore, what is generally taken here, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to prevent, suppress and remove pollution to the greatest extent possible from the Mediterranean Sea area, caused by the investigation of the epicontinental belt, hence, the seabed and the marine underworld. We have experience, therefore, of hydrocarbons and of our part of the Adriatic. So, not as intense as on the Italian side. This experience is good, therefore, to say that it is possible to achieve co-existence, therefore, of such economic activities and tourism. However, the quality of our part of the Adriatic certainly requires special caution here, especially because the loss of quality, i.e. cleanliness, ecological harariums that can be seen around the world and in our part of the Adriatic cause enormous damage. So that would be one huge change in quality states, perspectives, everything. So, in any case, the safety of the Adriatic is of primary interest and is desirable every step, an effort to strengthen these measures. The Protocol is one of the international agreements, which ensures that all preventive measures are taken in order to prevent them. However, planning pollution protection measures, sudden events, and co-operation, therefore, requires co-operation, as you know in hawari, pollution does not know the limits. So it's just a matter of sea electricity and wind. So cooperation is crucial. By confirming this Protocol, therefore, good opportunities are created, therefore, to determine and responsibility is the issue of damages from exploitation activities and obligations are also established, so to remove the plant after the end of their use. So it wouldn't happen if there was a concessionary just retreating. Of course, it is a very important thing to open the possibility of cooperation in the field of promoting achievements, so knowledge and exchange of experience in the protection of the marine environment, which can certainly be done in addition to contributing to the quality of protection of contributions by my opinion and the economy of the Republic of Croatia, because the Croatian economy can also make a quality contribution. But to conclude, I would say that this is certainly a small part of the mosaic, but this must be part of an integral policy, so the government of a sovereign country like the Republic of Croatia. So the question of exploitation must be answered from all aspects of how this environment is regulated by this very law. However, it does not make sense, of course, that sovereign policy allows the exploitation of hydrocarbons with minimal fees or some that open up the possibilities of some other so that they would want to avoid in any case. Here, I'd like to finish with that, so the protocol is to support it, and we're going to support it as a club of the Independent Lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49991	We have four replicas, first Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49992	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Dobrović, I agree with you that this Protocol should be supported, we are party to the Barcelona Convention. And in that sense, not only because of this, but because of the need to take care of the safety aspects of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, because the pollution of the sea, regardless of what is primarily about gas, could still lead to catastrophic situations. And when we talk about the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, then it's a problem that both this Parliament and the Government must quite respond to with the applicable documents, the relevant documents that will be followed by quality implementation. When the government of Zoran Milanovic started with a project of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, it was one of the most independent proposals that took place in the government and we wrote at the HDZ club that asked the government to give up this illegal project because it had not preceded a series of strategic documents from laws that could allow access to exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. And you're... Minister of Environmental Protection and certainly that the responsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection is very strong in order to avoid research and exploitation without these documents which are largely within the competence of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Research and exploitation, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, one of the most demanding technological processes in the world. It is even acceptable at depths of up to 150, up to 200 meters, which is happening to us in the Adriatic, all this research that the secretary of state had just spoken about, is happening in the northern part of the Adriatic where the depths for gas exploration are. And I think that the exploration and exploitation of gas in Croatia is acceptable in the Croatian part of the Adriatic. We're for oil, anyway, against oil exploration and exploitation. Namely, any hararium that would occur at depths below 700 meters would definitely pollute the Adriatic Sea in view of the position, on the currents that are in the Adriatic Sea. So when we talk about ratification of this Protocol, he's good, we have to accept him, and we have to respect all these provisions of the protocol because they raise the standard to a very high level. And in that sense, and for the existing exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, it's good, but we have to have a pretty clear limit to where we as a state intend to go, and that's where we have to go when we approach the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. In that sense, the strategy of spatial development that must be on the benches of this Assembly in the next month must be quite a response... and where we're thinking about exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49993	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49994	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bacic, I agree with what you said. I also agree that there have been a lot of irregularities or illogicalness in the process of carrying out the research, so in the previous Government as you mentioned. But it's very good and I'm glad if that's how it's gonna be if you're interested and the heat you've approached as an opposition party, now proceed as a position. So, of course, in opposition to all things, the public interest stands out and that is, thank God that's the case. Of course, however, this example should also be followed in the conduct of the government. This Convention, i.e. the Protocol, provides for, therefore, international cooperation. So it would be good for us to talk to our neighbours, since we know that as far as oil exploitation is concerned, the fields with certain potentials are located in the deeper part of the Adriatic and that our neighbours are working seriously to deal with this problem. The oil that's down there is there forever, and we're gonna need it someday, not necessarily to go exploit this moment, but we need to work on reducing the need for a consumption of hydrocarbons and our neighbors who might want to go quickly into exploitation and get some dollars out of it, everyone has to blow their necks and look for the most ecological standards in order not to pose a serious threat to our part of the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49995	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar's second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49996	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Dobrović, since he had already made quite clear in his replica what are all the dangers that can happen if contracts are not well prepared that allow in this case the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic to which we witnessed through media writings, ultimately and public reactions, then the professional public. I am interested now in this second part where you mentioned that Croatia must indeed as a tourist country, a country that has these natural resources above all clean seas, do everything to be prepared to respond to possible seagulls that can happen. In fact, it's not unusual to see that many snow-cleaning services surprised us when it fell in January, we were surprised by the fires, we weren't well prepared, the firemen weren't equipped, we were surprised by the floods, we didn't have a flood protection system, and since you were the Minister of Environmental Protection and I see that you're an expert man, what do you think is real at the moment the RH's readiness, which is that the RH has at its disposal, what are both material and ultimately human resources that can be prevented in this case because we have only an explosion of gas as far as I understand it is, but we have tanker sails as we're actually ready to respond adequately to possible harariums that can happen in the Adriatic Sea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49997	Thank you very much. Mr. Dobrović, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49998	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sagar. I agree with your observation. What should be pointed out is that this protocol primarily promotes prevention measures and that's very good because once the hararium occurs, it's just about localisation of damage and damage recovery. Recoveries are never complete, so once you've made hawari practically you have a certain lasting consequence. Well, natural oil still exists some processes of degradation, so it can be said to be gradually normalized. However, prevention measures are essential, which clearly define what steps are necessary and necessary in order for such operations to come from local research, namely more precise and the very process of exploitation. As far as the RH's readiness is concerned, of course, the current exploitation concerns gas. Gas is such that it's evaporating into the atmosphere, so there's no problem with that drippy part. Croatia certainly also needs to strengthen its fleet which would have the task of taking measures to protect and prevent pollution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u49999	Thank you, too. Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50000	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I wanted to ask you if you have read or at least been familiar with those projects proposed by Mr. Vrdoljak. From your answers to Mr. Bačić and Sagar, I concluded that you were familiar with that project of co-existence was simply not possible. The project predicted that only a few nautical miles from land to island, if I remember correctly, could build platforms. The project predicted that in the middle of the nautical tourism route, platforms were placed, platforms were being drilled, cruises were going or yachts are going, people are sailing as they sail every year for decades, explosions are being built, platforms are being built, projections that predicted damage to nautical tourism were catastrophic. Therefore, not to mention further, co-existence may be possible if we are talking about a small number of wells away on the high seas, this will say as much and where, however, in the form in which Mr. Vrdoljak's initiative predicted, there was one dangerous madness that I am glad it failed and that reason had won. I would like to ask you, since you were the Minister of Environmental Protection, can you comment on the danger that this very occurrence of the disposal of strict weapons, unused weapons on the seabed in exactly certain areas that should be known and the public harm to the Adriatic itself and how much harm it can do in exploring and exploiting the epicontinental belt itself as the document said? I remember when the debate lasted that year, experts warned that possible drilling in these areas could have terrible consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50001	Thank you, too. Mr. Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50002	Thank you very much. My colleague Sinčić, I do not know the details and I do not remember the details, but I agree that this approach that we could see in this activity of promoting the exploitation of hydrocarbons in our part of the Adriatic was rather aggressive or did not give the impression that it was a well thought out and sustainable system that could guarantee that it would be able to take place parallelly or co-exist these quite different activities. So, I agree with the hydrocarbon mass-explosion, now we've found something we have, we go fast to the money of some zero and exploiting wells or platforms like mushrooms, that's something quite wrong. Croatia must approach this very carefully, it must build a repeat system, so the transition of the energy sector to renewables is necessarily reducing dependence and the need for hydrocarbons. We will always need hydrocarbons, but to a lesser and smaller extent, this is consistent with protection policies and policies to protect the atmosphere or prevent or reduce the greenhouse effect that is very strong today. So it was wrong, something else must greatly respect all the specificities of our part of the Adriatic. And the other part of the question, the explosive devices, the ammunition that was being put off, so it's one of the worst forms of solving the problem of such material, and eventually we're going to have to deal with it and see what and how it does because it's a permanent danger and it's probably permanently creating certain pollution, pollution in the submersible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50003	Thank you. And now it's ahead of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Parties to the Intergenerational Solidarity of Croatia, Reformists and Independent Representatives all together Mr. Rechim Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50004	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with his associates. You'll let me be very brief. This protocol is not about internal sea waters or the territorial sea, it is about the epicontinental belt of the Mediterranean Sea, especially the Adriatic Sea or the Epicontinental Belt where our interest is in the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely because we have exclusive sovereignty in the internal seawaters or the territorial seas, in the epicontinental belt we have the right to the seabed and the underworld to exploit regarding the especially hydrocarbons, it is important to point out. So this Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea which, in some ways, I would say even the closed sea with the Adriatic Sea glove, on the protection against pollution arising from research, the exploitation of the continental seabed and the marine underworld, I believe that it is important to adopt this law in order to protect against pollution that confirms the protocol. The Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Italy was delimited to the contract between the former state and Italy in '68. years and confirmed if I'm not mistaken somewhere in 2002 by a succession of the former state. So I must stress that the protocol determines the process of polluting the epicontinental belt resulting from the exploitation of the seabed and the underworld. The Republic of Croatia is largely focused on the maritime economy and tourism, so it is of particular importance to take measures to prevent, mitigate, suppress or control the pollution of the sea and all potential sources because this is a prerequisite for achieving and maintaining the good state of the marine environment, which is the basis for sustainable management of natural resources. On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia is also focused on the exploitation of hydrocarbons from the Adriatic. Therefore, it is of paramount importance to strengthen environmental protection measures, the colleague Dobrović and his colleague spoke about it, so the adoption of this shelter, which confirms the protocol, is important for further development of the blue economy and is of my deep concern for the Republic of Croatia. The Protocol, namely, constitutes one of the international agreements which ensures that all preventive measures are taken to prevent the pollution of the sea, plans are made to protect pollution and the cooperation of Mediterranean states in these activities, ensures mutual information on the results achieved and potential difficulties in the implementation of the Protocol, provides mutual assistance in sudden events, ensures cooperation in determining the liability and compensation for damages resulting from the hydrocarbon exploitation activities, and sets out the obligation to remove the plant after the end of their use. I have no intention of repeating the content of the protocol, but I have a question related to chapter 4 of the reasons which states that no specific direct costs are provided for the Republic of Croatia, so it is stated that there is no need to provide additional funding for the implementation of the Protocol. The question is whether, as a state, we have provided all the necessary installations, i.e. facilities and devices to solve waste of dangerous or harmful things and materials, waste water, oil, oil, sanitary waste water, etc.? In any case, representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Club, Parties to the Intergenerational Solidarity of Croatia, Reformists and Independent Representatives will vote in favour of this Protocol Confirmation Act in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50005	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vardo, part of you, but more during the debate so far, we are talking about potential pollution of the sea, not taking care of what this protocol is really talking about. This Protocol speaks of measures to be taken by the maritime state in the event of pollution of the sea resulting from the exploration and exploitation of the epicontinental belt, so that is the continental plate below the ice column. What we have already heard this morning about potential pollution of the sea from ships, first of all the tankers should say something else here, that this convention is not being resolved, this is being resolved by another convention... which prescribes how and in what way the state prescribes measures that must respect ships that sail to Croatian ports or from Croatian ports, so there are no colleagues Bulja, I would like to say, and the fact that it does not pose such a danger from the aspect of ballast waters, in fact no danger from the aspect of the change of balastic waters represents ships, especially tankers that sail full in Croatian ports than those who come empty in Croatian ports. This is the problem of the Croatian Adriatic, which is the famous company Adria has spoken of many times. Thus, the tankers who come empty to take oil from Croatian ports which should have been served by the company Adria they come to the Adriatic to land their ballast waters and then there is pollution of the Adriatic. However, there is an International Convention on Ballast Waters, which is prescribed and which prohibits the exchange of ballast waters in the Adriatic. So when we talk about this protocol, we clearly highlight what he defines, what measures the state must make to prevent pollution, research, exploitation of the epicontinental belt from any pollution that ships that sail or sail from Croatian ports.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50007	Thank you. Mr. Varda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50008	Dear colleague Bačić, I have nothing to answer for your replica, because my debate was in that sense just principle. I have therefore stressed that the protocol does not address Croatia's sovereign rights to internal seawater and the territorial sea, and I do not see any problems there. We are absolutely sovereign here and we bring all the regulations and preventive measures regarding such pollution. This is exclusively about a protocol that solves the protection of the Mediterranean Sea in an epicontinental belt, a band of coastal states. No more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50009	Thank you, too. Now in front of the HDZ club, Mr. Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the club of the Croatian Democratic Community studied, carried out this Law on Confirmation of the Protocol, and here I can say in the beginning that it will be supported by this law as proposed. Because it is clear that any such law that confirms the protocols concerning environmental protection are important for our country, for the overall state and for any better standard that both our neighbours and those who have invested more in environmental protection are certainly commendable. And our desire to join all such protocols. As this is said here, this is part of the Mediterranean Action Plan, the United Nations Environment Programme, and this Barcelona Convention, which has 7 follow-up protocols, and certainly one of these is important for this protocol, which Croatia signed, and the EU joined on 27 February 2013. And now, under this amendment to the Protocol of 28 April 2017, we now sign it. Since we are a country dealing with tourism and we hold it as an important form of economy and we do, we have in this part of the northern Adriatic and the well. Then it is certainly important that we join this protocol and be part of the countries that are members of this Protocol, that together with them we seek the best solutions to protect our seas from all potential dangers that can arise as well as further exploitations that can be carried out on this part of the Adriatic. It is clear that for such major procedures and for environmental and marine protection, it is important that we participate with stronger countries than we, or those who are richer and who may have invested more in environmental protection, invest more in environmental protection equipment, the essence of this club is certainly interesting. This is confirmed by incidents and incidents that occur both on land and at sea. We saw the situation of fire protection when we as a small country helped Israel, one of the richest and most technically sophisticated states. We went to our canadians to help Israel. So such an interesting collaboration is through this protocol, that those who are stronger than us, who may have better equipment can help. Our sea is not great, but here we have our share of importance compared to the whole Mediterranean. And in that sense it certainly matters, here's this protocol to support, to be part of it, to be part of that community and to build protection together in the Mediterranean. It is certainly important that this Article 3 which states that both parties, both individually and bilaterally and multilaterally, through cooperation, have taken all measures to prevent, reduce and prevent pollution together. And that's something we find interesting. We certainly need to see if we are ready for all of this in this protocol, because I don't know in Articles 13, 12 and 13 when we talk about garbage disposal, then Article 13 says that the parties ensure that operators provide, in a satisfactory manner, all waste, dangerous or harmful things and materials in the scheduled land reception facilities, unless otherwise provided. When we know that we still don't have environmental centres, waste management centres, and when we're aware of these facts, we're looking at where they're going to take care of it, which way they're going to take care of it, then it's certainly one of the important topics that this ministry has to do with partners and take responsibility and obligations through this protocol. Because without high-quality waste management centres, it's gonna be hard to fill these items. I was also personally interested in this article 18, that is, all of Article 16 and these are planned interventions, because here I am an operative in my work and then as a firefighter I know how important it is to define operational procedures. There's a Regional Emergency Intervention Centre here in case of pollution of the Mediterranean Sea and here's a personal interest, I couldn't see through this protocol how much we're here, what our connections are, how our cooperation works. And it is also important for this our ministry to make plans to strengthen our potential, because unfortunately, we only have a few boats in the cleaning of the sea, which the ministry bought 10 years ago, when Minister Dropulic was still. When they bought those few boats that are low capacity. It's a 13-metre boat, which can do something here in the coast and on the narrow waves, but for the open sea I'm not aware of how much potential we have. And as far as I know, we don't have any ships, and I think maybe there's a moment that has matured that along with the Environmental Protection Fund is looking for a way to find the means to equip the Adriatic with a quality ship that, I know, would have signed this international contract and that there's this ship in Trieste that's on call for our sea here. But when I saw that ship and saw what time it took for it to come, I don't know about the Palagruža incident or some part of the Adriatic, I guess I saw it was about 12, 15 hours, because he's doing some other regular work. Well, as far as I'm concerned, maybe I'm not well informed, then he's coming, then he's putting himself in the service, and he's coming to clean up our seas. So I think that Croatia has the strength, and we have its shipyards, we have the potential, we have the experts, and within one European project, Holistik, the Istrian County has plannedly agreed on the level of the county supplies, through the project has received funds and made a project of such a ship. And I think the time has matured to be seen within the power of this ministry, I say the Environmental Protection Fund, to go into the construction of a ship on the Adriatic, to have our own ship. Perhaps even through the new European project, so that we can interview ourselves on the Adriatic, in the open sea, when the sea is more powerful that it can then intervene, that we do not expect this help from Trieste or within this regional emergency intervention centre. 'Cause I'm saying considering all the wells we've got, but considering the pollution and dangers that can happen on the Adriatic. I see that there is also a competent body, where necessary it can establish a national monitoring system, so I don't know, I'm not informed, it might be good for the Croatian public to inform how it works, this national monitoring system. Is he ready to take this responsibility and can he meet the requirements of this protocol that we signed? Otherwise there are some technical errors here, or this is a weak translation. The competent authority shall establish, where appropriate, a national monitoring system. I guess it shall establish, as appropriate, a national monitoring system for the competent authority. Maybe it's a technical mistake, and maybe it's a little translation. It seems to me, otherwise the question is when they translate, I don't know who translates this, these protocols, international, maybe people who aren't technicians, technical professions, so when they translate some general language expert, some technical concepts, then it happens that you don't even understand the Croatian translation that we get here. So here, it would be correct, if according to the Croatian language, we had translations. This is Art. 24. It is nice to have within this protocol, to get both scientific and technical assistance and that surely they stronger countries, that is, this is also an opportunity for our universities and universities to make contact and co-operate with universities from these countries, our partners, who will sign this protocol. But yes, and then we have our options in education and experts in this area. Ecology expert, who can be further educated here. However, I am interested in this Article 24.2 where technical assistance specifically includes the meaning of scientific, legal and technical staff and the production of appropriate equipment in those countries under favourable conditions. Which would mean, if he had a chance, maybe his economy could find a chance here, so through this, to open up some kind of drive, which might be doing these things technically aids that are needed for this activity. I also welcome this cross-border pollution, which means cooperation on cross-border impure. And here I see our chance to strengthen even more and to have security. Ugl. In total, taking this is a good protocol, i.e. one good law, which confirms a good protocol, which can be of great benefit to Croatia and surely we must through this protocol and sign this protocol with the countries in our neighbourhood find our chances for building our own ecological fleet and for the technical equipment provided for under this Protocol. And here's why, as I said at the beginning, we absolutely support this law, regarding this protocol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50011	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. First Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50012	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Sanader and we of HSS support the introduction of course into Croatian legislation, signed conventions of European directives, and certainly it is not only, it should not be understood as a commitment, but also an opportunity to be a tool of the Republic of Croatia to protect its seas. You have made it very clear how important tourism is for both the economy and Croatia, and that we must be very careful here. And you mentioned in your presentation and doubt whether we are through national monitoring ready enough to prevent possible handouts, and I would add how much more we are able to exercise quality control and pressure on our neighbours, especially on Italians, because we know how much trouble we have and our fishermen with them to bear with them that they are always a certain step ahead of us as an old member of the EU and I certainly support that doubt you have said, that Croatia must be better placed there and that we must be more diplomatically stronger and perform always with the protection of Croatia and Croatian interests. I know that we all want to be energy independent and that oil, gas, are certainly one of the important factors here. But surely it should be considered that it is less exploited from the Adriatic and more invested in research, research, expansion, oil and gas on the continental part, especially in Slavonia and Baranja. And of course it should be supported, what my colleague said, that units of local self-government can benefit more from that exploitation, because up to the current 10% of the amount of hydrocarbon used is not enough and especially because they can't affect the quality of the data that is really exploited, and how much they are paid. And as a firefighter, I urge you to support the OPG initiative that the harvest remains are not irritable and not burned but to process the pellets, such a project has been launched in the ministry and in the fund to support it in order to ensure additional income for our OPGs, and to prevent possible fires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50013	Thank you, too. Mr. Sanader's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, first this in the end. I clearly absolutely support that it is not burned because it is a danger to fires, but certainly everything that can be raw and anything that can produce new energy should be directed in that sense and found ways to make some centres, energy small ones who would take advantage of it. But about what I was talking about in the first part, absolutely from the experience of your operational or fire department, I know that we always remember when there was an accident, we should have done something. And at a time of peace, when we're calm then, it's like health, when you're being treated for disease, you have a hundred other priorities. When you're sick, you only have one problem, it's a disease. So here and now at a time calmly about some ecological pollution of the sea, when you want to talk to some units of local self-government or regional self-government, then everyone puts it in the third priority. Clearly, if there's a road to be made, the hospital needs to be arranged, the school needs to be arranged, and those are priorities, but when one big disaster happens in the Gulf of Mexico, and since we have in the North Adriatic wells, that Italians have drills, that's one reality. And so today this topic of agenda and conversation should be just to raise the awareness of our people and responsible people that we need to think about it. It is bad that Croatia has four, five small boats of 13 metres of ecological boats that can be in the coast along the small islands without having one serious ship that can intervene on the Adriatic. That's why I was saying it, and that's why I'm appealing to both the Ministry and our Environmental Protection Fund to allocate funds because we have project documentation made in Istria, and now it needs to go into realisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50015	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50016	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sanader, you mentioned the Barcelona Convention in your presentation, and this is really the right time to have and to think about what the Adriatic Sea means within the entire ecological system of the Mediterranean Sea. So climate change is a fact, but the facts and changes that are in the ecological systems and the Mediterranean and the Adriatic, and that is why it is extremely important to do this kind of protocol because through this protocol we point to importance, we point to the fact that we protect what we have. Not long ago, if we remember correctly, was the topic of a algae that came from a laboratory in France, and it came to the Adriatic and made a wasteland at the bottom, so it really changed the situation. One ecological disaster in the Adriatic can permanently change the situation, but when we are already talking about pollution, I would perhaps refer to when we listened carefully to what the Arbitrary Court was related to Piran Bay when it arbitrized then one of the reasons was and said when there was pollution there then the Slovenians were at that moment, although we were all in one country, ready to solve the pollution, so one of the reasons why it was drawn as it was, was that reason. We really need to use every moment to realize that the Adriatic Sea is really something we need to protect, we need to protect it all together. So we have the Croatian side, we have the Italian side, we have this one advantage because the currents go so that they actually go up the Croatian side, and then the Italian side goes out. But when you look at all the seas, the Mediterranean Sea is nothing too big compared to all that, so looking globally local, and it's the great importance of these protocols that allow us to protect the sea once you've done damage, you've done it forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50017	Thank you very much. Mr. Sanader's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50018	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a respected colleague, clearly here we agree absolutely, and I believe that these are the things that we all agree on that there is no position and opposition because concern for the sea, environmental concern is absolutely a priority. I repeat again, this point of the agenda is an opportunity to develop consciousness, the overall consciousness of our fellow citizens about environmental dangers because it is normal for human beings to forget it when in the daily world hundreds of problems people think about other priorities and then eventually these incidents that can happen find us. However, here you would not have presented the information if it were one argument, this Slovenians if they were more prepared than we are, it is certainly false information because our Istrian firefighters there means firefighters in the Istria area are well equipped and have good training,... And that was a long time ago. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Today we believe we are much more ready, I was with firefighters there in the Slovenian part of the Piran Bay and they are not more ready than we are, they have neither better equipment nor technique means this argument if they brought it out then it is certainly not true because I said in my presentation that the Istrian firefighters were within the project "Hollistic" they took that part to build an environmental ship and experts in the shipbuilding site made a project for the ecological ship. It's multi-purpose normal, it doesn't make sense to be a ship just eco-friendly, it's multi-purpose, so it's also to put out fires and rescues at sea, but also to environmentals. So in this recent time, we are still more ready than Slovenians, so we can get half the bay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50019	Thank you very much. Third replica, Mr. Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50020	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sanader, I agree with the good part of your exposure, so there is really no dispute here that should go in the direction of acceptance of this protocol. However, I think I heard you talking about a waste that can be created in these activities, that you mentioned waste management centres as well, thank God, there will be that, and we'll sort it out there. He would draw your attention if the waste management center was intended for municipal waste is something else entirely. You can go to... Or in Mariščina, and see that there's an entrance pie, a dump where everything is unloaded, so you shouldn't unload it there, and the waste from the sea, and there's good work and liquid waste, so either oil or I don't know what, shake it all in there, then it's going on, alone, and then further out of it, they're doing wonders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, this is not exactly in line with what we should do today. So, separate collection, so when he finds the ships, he collects that kind of waste, then he takes care of himself individually. So it's the right way and the other one doesn't have to be quite sure. It won't be reasonable and it doesn't make any sense to drive it downtown. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50021	Thank you. Mr. Sanader's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50022	Thank you, Vice President. Here's an esteemed colleague, I'm just asking a question because in this protocol, we're making a commitment that operators may have to take care of potentially dangerous waste on land. Like I said, I didn't think it was going to be dumped, but I was just asking if we were ready to take over? Who will take it, where will they store it, will it be in waste management centres that should be places where all the waste will be handled? I know they have concessionaries for dangerous waste, but here, that's the question, that's what I asked the Secretary of State to see how it's imagined, and how it's planned to take over the waste, where would he put himself on land, or how would he manage it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50023	Thank you very much. Last line. Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50024	Dear colleague, I understand that this strategic environmental impact study in 2012 was completed. Now I also know that we have 19 platforms off-shore there that work, should be approved, I think if I'm wrong here, there are experts, there should be 13 other projects approved. Questions, when are you going to brief the public about these projects? When will they be notified? Secondly, what happened to those six blocks in the interior of Croatia, those six oil fields most of which were in Slavonia? This has disappeared from the radar and since energy is the most important branch of development in Croatia, it will all go away. We are not yet clear to the public what is the future of the Krk terminal and the Adriatic pipeline. Now we've seen that she has entered NATO and Montenegro, and now you see what's going on, the pipeline will go that way and we don't have that much influence. We have an example of Albania, so we ask for the pollution of the Adriatic Sea, a huge amount of garbage that surfaces every year on Mljet and on other beaches. What will be done on this matter and to be sure, this, when will be the permits for all these projects submitted, that they go into realisation?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50025	Thank you very much. Answer. Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50026	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I think this set of questions that you've asked is, in fact, the people of the ministry, and not to me, I'm not the one who can answer those questions. However, here you are... Well, then you should know as well as I do as I do, right, we're both equal and you, so I answer those questions to you, these are questions for the ministry, and I'm sure the Ministry will answer you. [[/Intruder Glasnović, you don't understand.]] But your dilemmas about when and how some oil fields are going to happen, what will happen, all the projects and all the strategic documents will have to come before this Parliament and before the citizens. You know that under the Environmental Protection Act, all important documents must go to public insight, have to go to public debates and have to come before this Assembly and we have discussed here when there have been both platforms and rigs and these important things, these are too important things for one state and certainly all such documents and like all projects potential, which can come there and before this Parliament. And as for our neighbours who are drilling and the dangers that we may be in this part of the Adriatic, because the currents are not limited by the borders of the states, we must be prepared for that. That's why I appealed here to see how much sea we're ready for, if we need to further strengthen our fleet maritime, ecological, and what we still need to do to avoid being created by any potential pollution. But it is certainly important that by signing this protocol we enter into a society of countries that are richer than some of us, which may have better equipment and that we can use this center for the Mediterranean to protect the sea. These are the advantages of this protocol, and that's why I'm here, and I said our club will support this protocol and this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50027	Thank you. Now in front of the SDP MPs' club, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50028	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here these few days we have had several topics concerning environmental protection and through the Law on Agricultural Land, Aquaculture, Nature Protection Act and today the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against contaminants resulting from the research and exploitation of the epicontinental belt show that we are actually taking care of something that is the greatest wealth and this is a clean environment, especially our Adriatic Sea, which is our invaluable treasure from any aspect of which they speak, tourism, fishing, health tourism and naturally the exploitation of hydrocarbons. So, of course, we at the SDP club support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of this Protocol, and we would like to point out that, through the implementation of the Barcelona Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean, we can also make an active contribution to the protection of the Adriatic Sea, but also make use of whatever the signatories of this Protocol and the Convention offer us to benefit from it. It should once again be pointed out that in Croatia we have 18 gas and one compression platform, so 19 platforms with 51 wells from which we exploit a total of 1.2 billion gas, which shows to what extent we must always be ready to react and protect our Adriatic Sea, which I have already said several times one of our greatest treasures. I would especially like to emphasise that I come from Rijeka, so I am saying this not only as a representative of the SDP Club but also as a Rijekan in which we have a really long experience in the need of quality preparation and prevention of any pollution of the Adriatic Sea given the Bay of Bakar, on Dina, on the refinery, on the shipyard which, of course, are always potential contaminants of our Rijeka Bay. And we also have a high-quality disinsectation company that deals with these affairs, and the Primorje-Gorski County is also investing in various initiatives that are tasked with preventing pollution and urgent response in case it happens. So the SDP Representatives Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50029	Okay. I don't have a replica. Mr. Tulio Demetlika, in front of the IDS Representatives Club, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50030	Here's my thanks, Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and colleagues, the Secretary of State with his associates. We from the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List will surely support the signing of this protocol and simply for a number of reasons. The Adriatic is too small and too closed for us to share, so we must all bear equal responsibility for it. Therefore, in this law which confirms the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution arising from research and exploitation of the ecological continental seabed and the marine underworld is unquestionable. But I want to take advantage of this moment, too, I want to remind you that we in Istria County have long been thinking about protecting the Adriatic, protecting this natural wealth and not simply sharing it. And I have to say that just from Istria County, an initiative was launched on the establishment of the Adriatic Euroregion which was founded on 30.06, so in 2006. And at the head of the Adriatic Euroregion was the first President Ivan Jakovčić and the head office of that euro region is in Pula but we also have the presidency meaning which is in Brussels. I want to say that I am this initiative, and the goal has been what we are often talking about here today about community and cooperation, about the common interests that connect this Adriatic Sea. And that is why the Adriatic Euroregion today unites 6 countries on both sides of the Adriatic Sea, 7 Italian regions along the Adriatic, 3 Slovenian coastal municipalities, 7 Croatian Adriatic counties, a Mostar-Neretva canton in BiH, Montenegro and 6 Albanian Adriatic provinces. Why is this euro area simply supported? It was supported for the reason why it wanted to be established first and foremost I will say one thing, to unite this transnational, trans-border and inter-regional cooperation in accordance with sovereign standards and numerous examples across Europe. The main objectives were the creation of an area of peace, stability and cooperation, the protection of cultural heritage, the maintenance of economic development in particular in the area of tourism, fisheries, agriculture and the resolution of transport and infrastructure examples, as well as the support of the entry of all Adriatic states and the euro area. But the special emphasis was just on the Adriatic protection program as part of the Mediterranean Sea. And what is unquestionable today is to support this Protocol, but certainly extend it to some other parts not only connections for the exploitation and testing of gas wells. It should be repeated again and the same predecessors mentioned that today we are experiencing a large part of the impact of climate change and that in the Adriatic it is precisely because of the rise in sea temperature that comes so-called. Thermophilous species. Most of them are invasive species of algae and fish that live in the Adriatic and can damage indigenous flora and fauna through predatory, food and living space. We are witnessing that this year in Istria on the shores a species called ribs appeared. And why I want to draw attention to this particular house, these ribs, one that looks like jellyfish, attack and feed primarily on plankton and blue fish eggs. And we know that blue fish is the basis for the survival of other fish. And that's why I call here and I use this opportunity to use this protocol and this law that we're going to sign, that surely the competent ministries are taking appropriate measures to introduce additional protections precisely, whether they're ballast waters, whether they're research or if I don't know the algae or those predators that are destroying our indigenous flora and fauna, to take appropriate measures to avoid being put into a situation like I don't already know in the Black Sea or similar seas. Therefore, we, as representatives of IDS, PGS and RI, will support the adoption of this protocol and signing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50031	Thank you, too. We don't have any replicas. Now it should be Mr. Goran Maras' turn, he's gone. And the last speaker is the individual Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I applied for an individual debate to say another aspect of which should be taken into account when it comes to the protection of Adriatic pollution resulting from hydrocarbon research and exploitation in the epicontinental belt. I must say before that there are two I would say the obligations of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the protection of the sea, submarines and protection against pollution. One dimension is implemented at European Commission level, which prescribes its directives on what Member States must do when it comes to protecting the EU's seas and I must say that these directives are generally somewhere above the obligations that the Republic of Croatia must respect as a member of the UN. When we talk about these directives, which is prescribed by the EU, then I must say that we seem to have adopted, in March or in July 2015, the Security Act on Coastal Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which in large part coincides with the obligations arising from the Barcelona Convention. So we have brought this document to the Croatian Parliament and we have this document which services in the maritime administration of the Republic of Croatia must carry out activities in the event of sea pollution, and in the use and exploitation of hydrocarbons that is so called. coordination for the monitoring of sea pollution in the Adriatic, consisting of several ministries, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the environment, finance, internal affairs, defences etc., etc. and we have practically defined what we should do, how we should act in the event of this pollution. On the other hand, this protocol is based on one global convention, the Barcelona Convention signed in Barcelona in the framework of the UN in 1986, which passed seven protocols, and one of the protocols is this and we as a member of the Barcelona Convention, we seem to have ratified it in the Croatian Parliament in 1994. However, I must say that through the Security Act, we had already practically prevented and we had to do so because it was a directive that was required to be introduced into the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. It's one aspect that made me answer the word and the other the more important one. In the seventh meeting of the parliament, or the mandate of Zoran Milanovic, a process for exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons was launched. We, as a club, wrote an interpretation that we opposed to this exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, not because we don't think we should do hydrocarbon research in the Adriatic and its exploitation, because even now we have it, now in the opening part of this law we're talking about three exploitation wells and platforms in the Adriatic than we think that this process, given the consequences of any mistake or incident would contribute to the unspeakable consequences for Croatia's economy. Croatia's economy, as we know almost 20% of GDP, is relying on tourism, large revenues from fishing, fishing, and last night we debated the Law on aquaculture, so one such accent, especially in the southern part of the Adriatic, where the depths are large, I think the consequences for life in Croatia would be inconceivable. It is therefore very important to carefully approach the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation and, in accordance with all international conventions, to implement European directives in the Croatian society, the Croatian State, the Croatian Parliament, and to bring important strategic documents that are prescribed to prepare from these strategic documents through their discussion and here in the Assembly where and how it is possible to approach the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Namely, one small accent in 1979 at Brač on Milna 1 Bush threatened to evacuate the whole of Brač. Today, we are almost certain that after that little accent, we are not even aware of the panic that occurred that year when only a little of the sumporous leak on Brač from a millna 1 drill that was made at the time. It is therefore important to be aware of what we can expect, what we can do when we go into research and exploitation. It's not just a dangerous explosion. It's a dangerous drill. The largest pollution of the Gulf of Mexico occurred on a research platform, not on an exploitation platform. So when it comes to research, we don't know what's waiting for us down there. Down there can be gas, there can be oil down there even though today already research that is done already quite clearly I can tell where the gas is, where the oil is. The oil on the Adriatic is mostly in the southern part, so it has not been exploited there so far and we have to take care of it. When the competition was held, i.e. a public tender for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, then the government said something that is absolutely unacceptable to us in the Croatian Democratic Community club. That's what we said back then, and we're talking today. According to strategic documents, a strategy for spatial development, or a strategy for the spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia, is prohibited research in the territorial sea. The territorial sea stretches 22 km, 12 miles from the starting lines or from the island, the outer islands. And that contest said we'd call a tender just 6 km from the coast, or 10 km from the coast and 6 km from the island. So when we talk about research and exploitation, we smoke cold on the Adriatic. We need to be aware of that in order to... the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, that we need to meet all the high standards that need to be set before the state administration when it comes to this one project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, it's not just a problem that we're going to get into this research, but just before my colleague Sanader spoke with the right to see if as a maritime administration we're really ready to react promptly, quickly when it comes to an accent that would lead to the spill, don't let God of oil out of such a well. We had problems as a state maritime administration that did not, which has certain resources, when a Turkish... A ship carrying trucks towards Trieste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That was 2006. Then he said there would be panic in that part of the Adriatic and we didn't have quality resources so we could shut down a ship that went off on the Adriatic. So it's very important that we have a measure when we talk about hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation. We welcome the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in order to exploit gas, not oil at all. But even when we talk about gas exploration, what the Croatian state is doing is exploring and exploiting gas in the northern part of the Adriatic, it is acceptable because there are small depths. I said that just before to someone in the replica there is no more demanding technological process in the world than the oil extraction at depths below 700, 800, 900, 1000 meters of water column. It's extremely demanding on the one hand, and on the other hand it's almost impossible to react quickly, stop the leak of oil from such wells that are on those depths. So I therefore welcome the adoption of this Protocol, to adopt it, to ratify it, to implement all those EU directives that are still at a higher level when protecting the sea compared to these global conventions, including the Barcelona Convention. But first of all, it's important to establish protocols to behave in the event of a state-wide incident. And before that it is necessary to have the equipment, the ships, to establish the system in which we react. Because we depend too much on this Adriatic Sea so that we can easily talk to one project at such depths. The Adriatic Sea is very deep in the south so that we can destroy the entire economy of Croatia, and thus clearly question all these measures, indicators, macro-economic indicators that talk about growth in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50033	Thank you, too. And now at the end of the short review of Mr Horvat and then just as short a break until 12:00 a.m. then a vote. Up to 12.10 breaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50034	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank all MPs for their very high-quality debates and understanding of the intensity that we as proposing have had when we proposed this law. I'll just look back on two things to a respected colleague of Parliament, Sanader. So, in the case of acidic situations such as sea pollution in internal waters. So we are currently available as a state of 10 ships and they are stationed in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split, Plots and Dubrovnik, and the Ministry of Finance stands out at an annual level somewhere around 2.3 million kunas for the maintenance of so-called. the cold drive of those ships, and the rest of the intervention funds needed to cover the respective county. What we do know is that the plan of the state is to train a serious, large water facility that would intervene in the case of major hawari, and we think the Ministry of Maritime Affairs is already working on it. So that's some kind of last-minute information. And one more thing, so the waste from the ships you've commented on, ports, existing ports already have now or should have a system of accepting waste from ships and, in accordance with the Waste Management Act, treat it in a way that treats any other waste that occurs in another part of the Republic. I thank you again for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50035	Thank you very much. There's a vote at 12.10, so I'd like to ask you to return to the assembly. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. It's 11:00. 40 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50036	Final proposals of the Law confirming the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution resulting from research and exploitation of the epicontinental belt, seabed and marine underworld, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 181. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendment submitted and became an integral part of the final proposal for the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Protocol on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution resulting from research and exploitation of the epicontinental belt, seabed and marine underworld. Please, let's vote. I find that with 124 votes to be adopted, the conclusion is that it has been proposed by the competent parliamentary body, i.e. I apologize for the adoption of the Law on Confirming the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea from the pollution resulting from research and exploitation of the epicontinental belt, seabed and marine underworld. So we're going to vote. The first item is the report of the Immunity Commission, so I would ask Mr. Zarak Tušek to bring the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50038	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 28th session held on 22.9.2017, the Executive Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written notice of Representative Jasen Mesic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of Article 9. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the mandate rests because of the conduct of the office of the extraordinary and authorised ambassador in the Italian republic, which is incompatible with the representative. Jasen Mesic was elected representative in the 9th assembly of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate on the HDZ list in the 6th election unit and in accordance with Article 42(2) of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Tomislav Sokola was appointed deputy representative. The commission found that the conditions for the start of Jasen Mesic's term of office had been laid down by law, as well as the conditions for the start of his deputy, Tomislav Sokol,'s office. Following the abovementioned Mandate Immunity Commission, based on Articles 9, 11, and 42. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and Art. 9. paragraph 2 and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 7 votes in favour, proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the stay of the representative's mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative on 18.9.2017. begins to hold the term of office of representative Jasen Mesic, deputy representative Tomislav Sokol, on 22.9.2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50039	I thank the President of the Immunity Commission and open the debate. If no one is answering, I'm closing the debate and I'm asking you to make a decision to determine the quorum. There are 118 MPs and MPs present, so we have a quorum. And I am voting on a motion for a decision by the Mandate Immunity Commission. Please, let's vote. I find that unanimously with 115 votes, the decision was made, as it was postponed by the Mandate Immunity Commission. in accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure, it has been established that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath, and thereafter, by name, by a representative. Then after that, I stand up and say my word. Now I'd beg my fellow Falcone, I'd read the text of the oath, that he would tell her his oath. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work to uphold the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50040	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50041	Thank you very much. Congratulations to MP Tomislav Sokol on his sworn oath and I wish him success in performing this honorable and responsible parliamentary duty. Now we're going to the report of the mandate-immunity commission, so I'd like to ask my colleague, Tušek, to speak to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50043	I thank the president, my colleagues and my colleagues. At the 27th session held on 8 August 2017, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime from 1 August 2017 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia from 3 August 2017 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Franja Lucic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed the crime of bribery referred to in Article 294(1). Penalty law. Franjo Lucić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and is based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have the immunity of the parliamentary term. So without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same can not be initiated or prosecuted. However, when the Croatian Parliament is not combined, the right of the representatives to immunity is decided by the Mandate Immunity Commission, with its decision subsequently having to be confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. Without discussion, the Commission shall, in Article 76(5) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 27. paragraph 1 and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 6 votes for a unanimous decision shall be approved for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Franja Lucic, at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, of 3.8.2017, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed an act of bribery under Article 294(1) of the Penal Code. It's just that there's no need for me to read, I think we've always had the same practice in cases like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50044	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm sorry I didn't see that. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50045	Thank you very much. Here I would really warn of such events, since Mr. Hedl enjoys real support in his research as a journalist. We should show respect and thank you for removing the immunity, that this very event, which has happened that is unacceptable to all of us, can be processed to the end and revealed, to see what was behind it and what were the intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50046	Here you go, pal Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50047	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So what is currently the subject of our debate is an example of scandalous behaviour in the Croatian Parliament. And yet another proof of how guilty we all are, that we have failed to establish a National Council for the Monitoring and Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, on which we could discuss this topic, where a parliamentary representative bribes a journalist to write about all the pests he has done and damaged both the population of Croatian defenders and the entire Croatian society. So, the most embarrassing thing that has happened in Parliament's meetings since I've been sitting in this Croatian assembly. A fellow Lucic can be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50048	Okay. Let's not judge here. We're here to remove or not remove immunity. And that's what the national authorities will say. Here you go, buddy Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50049	Representative Lucic should not at all be stripped of immunity, he should not be stripped of immunity, because the County Court of First Instance, the investigator, refused to open an investigation because this is not about any bribery, because Mr Hedlug is not any official person. In addition, Mr. Hedl is no professional journalist, Mr. Hedl is the most common slanderer who has abused a journalist's pen for more than 30 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50050	My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to choose the words in our discussion of replicas. Here's a colleague, Jovanovic, with a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50051	Well, you'd have to refer a colleague to the Head for bribery. So if this isn't a bribe, then I don't know what it is. And you can, you dare insult one of the most rewarded journalists who has never been afraid to write and fear the truth. And because of such journalists, journalism in Croatia needs to be respected and protected from what you are and what kind of colleague Lucic is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50052	I'm asking you not to insult each other. My friend, you're going to have to go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50053	Mr. Hedl is no professional journalist. Mr. Hedl is a person who's up to the '90s. For years, she wrote and accused the late Cardinal Stepinc of being a Ustasha working criminal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50054	I hereby conclude the debate and put to the vote the next proposal for a decision of the Mandate Immunity Commission. It shall be approved to initiate criminal proceedings against Agent Franja Lucic on the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, issue US No 276/17 of 1.8.207, referred to by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, act No. KR up to 1055/2017. of 3.8.2017, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed a crime of bribery as referred to in Article 294(1) of Criminal Law 11. Please engage and let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 115 votes in favour and one vote against the confirmed decision of the Mandate Immunity Commission. I'm asking my colleague, Tušek, to present a second report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50055	The term of office of the Croatian Parliament's immunity commission was discussed at the 28th session held on 22.9.2017. the request of the private prosecutor Radovan Smokvin from Rijeka sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for approval and for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Klaric, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, for the criminal part of the insult referred to in Article 147 paragraph 2 of the Penal Code. Tomislav Klaric is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 76. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 23 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity until the end... The term of office, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it, cannot be initiated or criminalised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following the debate, the commission is based on Art. 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament with a majority of votes, 6 votes in favour, with one abstention, postponed to the Croatian Parliament for decision-making. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Tomislav Klaric shall be denied, at the request of the private prosecutor Radovan Smokkin of Rijeka on the appeal filed on 10.8.2016. to the Municipal Court in Rijeka for the criminal part of the offence referred to in Article 147(2) of the Penal Code. The explanation of private services is the same as it has been, in any case so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50056	I'm opening a debate. If no one comes forward, I will conclude the debate and vote on a motion for a decision that reads During the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Tomislav Klaric shall be suspended at the request of the acceptable prosecutor Radovan Smokwine of Rijeka on the plea lodged on 10 August 2016 to the Municipal Court in Rijeka for the criminal offence referred to in Article 147(2). The penal law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 114 for and 1 abstentions have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. That's all voting matters. Just a few notices, therefore, are also sent to you electronically through the adopted agenda and also the schedule of points that we will discuss next week. We continue on Wednesday, September 27th, and this is the first point of the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. No. 174. So before I give a break, it's just a notice that we'll continue to work after the break and after the discussion and there are six, continues with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E., No. 106. I'm taking a break now until 13.00. MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS Report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission, please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Zarko Tušek, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50058	I thank the president, my colleagues and my colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 29th session held in 5.10.2017, the written request of Agent Ivan Klarin, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament, that I be based on Article 14. paragraph 1 of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament shall put its parliamentary standoff on the date of 1.10.2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has signed that the MP has the right once, during the term of office, to place his term of office to the President of the Parliament, and the commission has found that the conditions laid down for the start of the term of office of representative Ivan Klarin have been laid down by law. Without debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall be based on Article 14. paragraph 1 of the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Art. 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, with 5 votes in favour, proposes to the Croatian Parliament the unanimous adoption of the next decision on the stay of the representative's term of office on 1.10.07. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50059	I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous to 95 votes for the decision to be put forward by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We are now moving to the last item of the agenda today that is: - The report on the Mandate Immunity Commission so I would ask the President of the Immunity Commission, Mr Tušek, to submit the report. I am united in thanking the President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50061	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. At the 30th session held on 25.10.2017, a request by private prosecutor Slavko Kostic from Zagreb was addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Vlaha Orepić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the penalty part of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2 of the Penal Code. Vlaho Orepić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same, the Commission shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings, without debate, pursuant to Art. 116. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 7 votes for, proposed by the Croatian Parliament, i.e. proposes making the next decision. During the term of the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against representative Vlaha Orepic is denied, at the request of private prosecutor Zlatko Kostic of Zagreb, following an action brought on 16.10.2017 by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal part of the libel referred to in Article 149. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Penal Code, not to read the whole argument, is a private lawsuit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50062	Then you can give us another decision, and then we'll... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50063	You got it, okay. The mandated immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 30th session held on 25.10.2017, the request of the attorney of private prosecutor Maja Sever from Zagreb addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Petar Škorić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence referred to in Articles 147 and 2. Penalty law. Petar Škorić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, has immunity until the end of the parliamentary term and cannot be initiated or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Also, without discussion pursuant to Article 116. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we unanimously propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Petar Skoric is denied. At the request of the power of attorney of the private prosecutor Maja North of Zagreb on the appeal filed on 23 October 2017 to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal offence referred to in Articles 147 and 2. In both cases, the criminal law argues that private lawsuits are involved and that in this case we stick to the principle that immunity is not removed from the representatives because the Commission's position is that the Institute of Immunity Law is established in order to protect the integrity of the duties of representatives rather than to protect the representatives personally as an individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50064	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers, I'll close the debate and we'll vote when you get the terms. This brings us to the end of today, we have exhausted the agenda, tomorrow we continue at 9 o'clock and 30 minutes The report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2016, the applicant is the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, and after that, we will have a vote at 12 o'clock. I'll thank you and see you tomorrow. Session closed in 20.17 hours. We are now going to the Report of the Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Vlaha Orepić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate has been concluded, I am voting on the proposal, a decision that reads, during the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against MP Vlaha Orepic, at the request of private prosecutor Zlatko Kostic of Zagreb, following a complaint filed on 16 June 2017. The municipal criminal court in Zagreb, for the criminal part of the libel of art. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Penal Code. Please engage and let's vote. I find it unanimously 110 votes in favour of the decision taken to postpone the Mandate Immunity Commission. We are now going to the second report of the Executive Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings, and against Petar Škorić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is concluded, I am voting on the motion for a decision, which reads, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against MP Petar Škorić, at the request of the attorney of the private prosecutor Maja Sever from Zagreb, following an action filed on 23.10.2017. The municipal criminal court in Zagreb, due to the criminal offence of art. Paragraphs 147, 1 and 2 of the Penal Code. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 107 for and 3 votes against the decision made as proposed by the Mandate Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50067	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The selection and appointment committee proposes a Decision appointing the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. For the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Daniel Gluncic is proposed. Shall we read everything?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50068	Well, we're not going to have a discussion, so we're going to go dot by point because they're different topics, not just committees, but we have this. So I'm opening a debate on this. If he doesn't, I'm closing the hearing. Are we going to vote right now? And we're going straight to the vote. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is.]] So I am voting on the proposal presented to us by the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Ante Sanader, which is a decision on the appointment of the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament for which Daniel Gluncic was proposed. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 117 votes for that proposal, it has been voted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50069	A member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Željko Jovanovic, a member of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee, is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50070	I'm opening a debate. If there are no interested, I'm closing the hearing. And I am voting on the proposal presented to us by the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. I find that with 11 votes for the proposal adopted, it was brought out by the president of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50071	Željko Glasnović is proposed as a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50072	I'm opening a debate. If there are no interested, I close the debate and put that proposal to the vote. I find that with 102 votes in favour and 1 vote against that proposal, it has been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50073	It is proposed that a member of the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs be dismissed. Drage Prgomet, a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50074	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing it right now. And I am voting on the proposal. Please join the vote. I find that 121 votes for that proposal have been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50075	A member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament Anton Kleman is proposed and Davor Ivo Stier is proposed as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50076	I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and voting on that proposal. I find that by 118 votes for, therefore, the proposal was unanimously accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50077	The President of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament Jasen Mesic is proposed and Dr Andrija Mikulić is proposed for the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media be resolved from the Croatian Parliament of Dr Andrija Mikulić, and Sanja Putica is proposed for a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50078	I'm opening a debate. I am concluding the debate and voting on those proposals. Please, let's vote. I find that, with 113 votes for and 1 abstention, that decision has been taken. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50079	A member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Jasen Mesic, is proposed and Davor Ivo Stier is proposed for members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Davor Ivo Stier, is hereby dismissed, and Anton Kliman is proposed as deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50080	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I close the debate and put those proposals to the vote. Please, let's vote. And these proposals received unanimous support from 117 votes in favour. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50081	A member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency Damir Felak is proposed, and Dragica Roscic is proposed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50082	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50083	Dear President, I think this is the last one, so I'm taking the opportunity to ask you again when we're going to appoint outside members of the Croatian Parliament's working bodies especially the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50084	Unfortunately, it's not the last of you all, it's still there. This is what it's all about. I ask you, therefore, not to depend, this is now asking me a question as if I'm the only one responsible for it. You know very well that I'm not. I appeal to the representatives of the clubs to agree as soon as possible and to appoint not only that, but all the fallen members of the board, especially those outside members. So, now we are, we must vote. Right? We didn't vote, then please vote for the committee president's proposal. I find that, unanimously with 116 votes for that proposal, it has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50085	The decision to appoint members and suspend the term of office of members of the Committee of Awards Ivan Filipovic. For members of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipović are proposed: Sanja Putica, Dr. Wilmica Kapac, mr. Hrvoje Šlezak, Momir Karin, Jadranka Žarković Pečenković, Mile Zivčić, Sunčica Findak, Nikica Mihaljevic. Members of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipovic was appointed by a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipović and the termination of the term of office of president and members of the Committee of the Award Ivan Filipovic from the start of the term of office of 30 January 2015. The mandate expired on 30 January 2017 during the legal period of 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50086	I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and making that proposal a vote. I find that with 114 votes in favour and 2 votes, the proposed proposal was abstentioned. I thank the president of the Anti Sanader Committee. Now we move on to choices, appointments and resolutions. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs of my colleague, Antu Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50088	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a well-respected colleague and colleagues who are proposing a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. It is proposed that a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee, Davor Miličević, be dismissed, and that Dr Tomislav Sokol be transferred as a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50089	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate, and I'm putting it to the vote, and I'm proposing how he was formulated by his colleague Sanader. Join the vote. I find that a unanimous decision has been made as proposed by the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50090	The next is a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Željko Raguža, is proposed and Dr Tomislav Sokol is proposed as a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50091	I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 105 votes for the decision made as tabled by the board. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50092	Proposal for a decision on discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Šuker, and that Dr Tomislav Sokol be represented as a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50093	I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and I am giving the proposal to starve. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous, 103 votes in favour of the decision taken as tabled by the board. And the last proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50094	Proposal for a decision on a member of the Croatian War Veterans Committee. A member of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, Frank Vidovic, is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50095	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I shall put that proposal to the vote. I find that, unanimously with 106 votes, the decision was made as proposed by the board. This brings us to the end of today's vote. So we have two points left. Here's my colleague Panenic. Wait a minute, is that a break? Just a second, I'll just give you some information, and then... So the vote is scheduled for Friday at 1200 hours as we have so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope we agree on some important things, so there may be reasons for contentment. We're going to work without a break today, considering we had a vote today, so we spent an hour and 20 minutes, and we're going to work without a break. The dots we announced last week. Now we're going to choose appointments and resolutions, so I'd like the chairman of the selection and appointment and administrative affairs committee, Antu Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go. I'm sorry, Ante, so here's 5 points, they're actually connected, they're all full of board members and board members, are you agreeing to introduce a fellow Sanader all of a sudden, so let's vote as we do every time. If it's okay, then I'm asking you to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50097	Thank you. Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Robert Podljenjak, but for a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Ines Strenja-Linić. A member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Marko Sladoljev, is proposed, but Božo Petrov is proposed as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Ines Strenja-Linić, and Vlaho Orepić is proposed as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Irene Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic, a member of the Committee on Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by Dr. Tomislav Sokol. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament Darko Parić be resolved, and Hope Turina Đurić is proposed as a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50098	Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50099	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Since 9 June, we have a different assembly of parliaments, or a different parliamentary majority, at the meeting on 9 June, then independent representatives, and now GLAS representatives are resolved on boards. There are five of us in the club and we are on eight committees and that if we declare Nada Turin Đurić it will be the ninth committee he is on. Just because we're decent and decent doesn't mean we're stupid, so I'm asking nicely that something be done and that, in accordance with the other parliamentary representatives, we're on the relevant parliamentary committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50100	I agree, colleague Hasanbegovic only for a second, so I believe that this is about the distribution of the board in a section belonging to the parliamentary minority, so I would ask you then to consult with regard to us in HDZ, and I believe that coalition partners will have no problem with that vote. Comrade Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50101	Your Honor. I would refer to Mrak-Taritash's presentation, so I appeal to the conscience of certain clubs to withdraw members who are in a somewhat usurpering position in relation to their political strength and schedule in Parliament and to allow all clubs to have their members in individual parliamentary committees according to their strength. So these consultations that you mentioned, we've been doing without any success for two months, it's ignored, I'm sure the parliamentary majority might be in some way responding. So I urge and appeal to my conscience and including your conscience as President of the Croatian Parliament to speed up this process by your authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50102	Thank you for your trust. So here I am asking MPs and MPs and clubs who belong to the parliamentary minority opposition to agree between themselves because I really don't want to either, and my colleagues and colleagues to accept responsibility for what is not in our part of responsibility. Please meet as soon as possible and include in committees proportionately and those constituencies who have the right to do so. That's what I as Parliament Speaker of Parliament can do. I'd like to ask you now to vote on what my colleague Sanader has suggested, so I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Here's your vote. I find that, unanimously with 99 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the board. Now we move on to the election, appointments and resolutions, please the presidents of the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for a decision. So, it's a lot of suggestions, so we'd like to ask you to have a united discussion, if someone has a particular decision, let them say it, and then we'll have a special vote on that point. Is that okay, acceptable? Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50104	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The appointment committee proposes, resolved as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, Davor Bernardic, and a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is proposed by Franco Vidovic. It is proposed that members of the Information and Information Committee, the media of the Croatian Parliament of Davor Bernardić, be released, and the media of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by Goran Beus Richembergh as a member of the Committee for Information and Information. For a member of the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Bruno Esih was proposed to act as a member of the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. For a member of the island council and the order of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Arsen Bauk is proposed, as the office of an island council member has ceased to act on behalf of Ivan Klarin for the term of office. For the external members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, the members are proposed by Ivan Čizmic, Branimir Kos, Damir Sesvecan, Mario Vinković, Ivan Milotic, Goran Vojkoić. The appointment goes to 6:11. Proposal for a Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Mladen Dragicevic, Natko Vlahović, Marko Babić, Daniel Mondekar, Nika Šimurina and Dominik Puletić. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, the foreign policy of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by Branko Caratan, Marin Jurjevic, Vanja Ivan Savic, Visnja Elderina, Dora Zgrabljić Rotar and Goran Bandov. The Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Željka Antunović, Ante Kotromanović, Tanja Vrbat Grgić, Miljenko Kolobarić, Ivan Pokaz and Marko Cvitković. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament proposes, Matija Kroflin, Zdenko Adrović, Marina Rožić, Željko Lovrinčević, David Krmpotić, Daniel Ferić. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Petra Šimunović, Davor Majetic, Ivan Barbarić, Dragutin Ranogajec, Josip Ptica and Anto Bajo. The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Ivan Rambašić, Andreja Tomic, Dora Smolčić Jurdan. The Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Assembly is proposed: Zdenko Babić, Željko Mrac, Vesna Škulić, Luka Madđerić. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Loris Rak, Evelyn Tonković, Tomislav Mrle, Nikša Valjalo, Snježana Vasiljevic, Goran Jarić. The Committee for Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Assembly are proposed: Željka Obradović, Bernard Jakelić, Davorko Vidović and Marinko Ucur. The Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Trpimir Goluža, Mario Gazić, Nikica Daraboš, Tibor Santo, Hrvoje Pezo, Višnja Fortuna. The Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Tihomir Horvat, Aleksandra Korač Grahovac and Daniel Bolčević. The Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia proposes Ivo Jelusic, Ivana Posavec Krivec, Veseljko Jovanovic and Ivan Bagarić. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Đuro Škvorc, Vedran Černi and Željko Poljak. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly proposes: Nike Sudarević, Jasminka Pilar Katavić, Jasna Matulić. The Committee for the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Robert Podrug, Sinisa Širac and Boran Ognjenović. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Željko Tanjic, Ljiljana Dobrovšak, Neven Budak, Damir Boras, Valter Bolunčić and Zvonimir Peranić. The Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament is proposed: Zoran Vasic, Đurdjica Sumrak and Nikolina Babić. The Committee for Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament is proposed: Jaksa Baloevic, Šimun Angelinović and Sonja Cikotic. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament proposes Jadranka Fžržop, Bojan Hlača, Dino Posavec, Tihomir Barišić and Marko Silađi. The Committee for Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament is proposed: Davor Pavić, Sreko Prussian, Denis Hrestak, Predrag Haramija and Nedeljko Marković. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Verica Rupčić, Ivan Šimović and Sandra Mitrović Nikšić. The Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Assembly proposes: Mirjana Lichtner Kristic, Jadranka Nikolov, Vojko Oberstnel, Zlatko Komadina, Goran Spider and Ivo Zelic, Smiljan Mustapić, Nives Kopatitić Škrec. For members of the National Council for the Monitoring and Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy are proposed: Ivica Kruhoberec, Gordan Žmuk, Krešimir Planinić, Ivana Kalogera Brkić, Smiljana Škugor Hrnčević and Branko Roglic. Decision on the discharge of the President and members of the Committee and the termination of the term of office of the Committee for the award of the Faust Vrančić award of the President and members of the Committee for the award of the Faust Vrancic Award. The duties of the chairman of the Committee of Prof. Dr. Nedjeljko Perić and members of the committee Prof. Dr. Stjepan Car, Prof. Dr. Bozidar Matijević, Tihomir Tomčić, Dubravko Diklic and Prof. Dr. Ante Markotic. On 14 October, a member of the Committee for the Award of the Faust Vrancic of the members of the Committee for Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament ends the term of office of Dr Damir Tomić. In the Committee for the Award of the Faust Vrancic, they are proposed to the president of Prof. Dr. Zdenko Kovačić, and for the members of Doc Dr. Ivan Uroda, Vlado Lendvai, Nikola Dmitrović, Prof. Dr. Ante Markotic, Dubravko Diklic and academician Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50105	Thank you, fellow Sanader. So now I'm opening a united debate. Is anyone there to answer? A colleague, Jovanovic, and a colleague, Misic. That's it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50106	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I can first say there's always a good and bad side to every news. The good news is that we finally elected members of the National Council, i.e. we will choose them since the competition was opened in December 2016. Of course there's a bad side. I, as president of that council, must say a few sentences. The first disaster is the preparation of Mr. Sanader of your board who wrote the decision very unprofessionally. And I urge you to read the 2012 decision on the appointment of members of the National Council. Secondly, I have to say, unfortunately, despite the very high-quality candidates who are proposed, I don't know which key has chosen a part of the candidate who doesn't meet the conditions at all. This is a specific council. This Council shall have six external members. Those external members shall be selected precisely by a specific key as indicated in the public call. So these are representatives of employers, union representatives, representatives of NGOs dealing with corruption. I especially stress this, the problem of corruption. Representatives of the academic community, experts and media representatives. Here it is proposed that on behalf of the NGO representative dealing with the problem of corruption be from the Family Association. I ask you if the association "On behalf of the family so far has dealt in any way with curbing and the problem of corruption other than being corrupt in relation to Bandic for what he is in court for? So, how can such a representative at the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy represent a civil society dealing with the problem of corruption, and let's say there is no place for a GONG representative who has been proven to be a body dealing with the problem of corruption. There was no place for Zorislav Antun Petrovic, who only met the requirements of these criteria to be a member of the National Council of Experts. Therefore, I will not trouble this choice because I want the council to start working but I warn Mr. Sanader that because of the way his body works, because of the way this decision was addressed, it can certainly fall to the complainants of those who have come forward and have not been elected to the National Council. Since it is the 6th day when this decision takes effect, therefore the National Council of Dreams may meet before then, but I therefore call on the Committee on Selection and Appointing to make another change that is necessary. Namely, the National Council has four MPs in its order with the president, four of them coming out of the opposition, two coming out of the majority. At this point, Mr Milorad Batinic, who has been elected as representative, is no longer in opposition, is now in the majority section, and thus until 6th, when this decision takes effect, he must choose a new member of the National Council from the ranks of the opposition. I hope that after that, the National Council will be able to begin work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50107	There's a replica, a respected colleague, Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50108	As far as I know, it's the National Council for the fight against corruption. Mr. Planenic is a lawyer, isn't he? What's the problem? If maybe it was from platform 112, the documents from the Peace Studies Centre, then it would fit. When he's proposed by an association on behalf of the family, he doesn't answer, does he, Mr. Jovanovic? I don't know if you suspect he's not competent for this, or if he's not answering you in the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50109	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50110	So, from the proposition clearly stated in the public call, it is clear that the association In the name of the family is not part of a civil society dealing with the problem of corruption and Mr. Planenic's résumé shows that he is not an expert in the fight against corruption. So he couldn't have been in the work of people who meet the criteria for a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy and I'm not talking about it at all, I'm talking about meeting the criteria set out in the decision to set up a National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50111	All right, let's move on. Second debate, colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50112	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I, as vice president of the Committee on Immigrants, disagree with a team that are members of the outsiders who have entered the short-listed election. Why? Because they were people who usually made the Law on evicted Croats and eventually an office that was founded, say Bruno Ivkić, who did it all, today he's not listed as an outside member of the board, so I wonder why? I believe that he deserved to be on the board as an external member and that he is responsible at all for what there is in the Office for Immigrants, therefore, I would like to discuss on this subject and bring a little different one, to include him on the board. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50113	Okay, so does that mean that there's a special vote on this item, or are you going to vote, and then we're going to discuss this later?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50114	Well, no, I'm just asking how it got in that it wasn't done properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50115	Like everything else. It's a matter of inter-party consultation. Okay, let's go to the third hearing, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50116	So, I would inform the Croatian public and representatives of the Croatian Parliament in fact about the unknown circumstances of the choice of members of these committees. So, as always, the résumés were completely irrelevant, it was a political party trade between HDZ and SDP, from which the club is UNOSICT FOR CROATIA, for my unknown reasons, was completely abandoned. So Mr. Bauk and Bacic split the party quotas and left us out. Mr. Bauk said you're in HDZ quota. They even did a solid draw in secret, the gentlemen were the lotto girls in other words, according to the trade quota of the club UNIFORM FOR CROATIA go two places as well as for example the club IDS which received those two places, in other words this is the most common store. Mr. Jovanovic, you participated in it and there is no reason to selectively take out individual choosers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50117	All right, let's move on. Fourth debate, dear colleague Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50118	... I wonder here what the criteria are, how the success of working in the Parliament is estimated, is that by stating here. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Mr. Misic mentioned some people, not by names, which are longer on the hair than Saddam Hussein, are again involved in the Parliament, what is the performance. The Committee for Croats outside the country,... Millions of Croats out there, no correspondence at all, I don't see any of this effect besides statging. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wanted to say something else, I won't, it's not for this public debate. What are the criteria for this choice? Are your criteria for being a party member, for having a record in Belgrade? People who burned the party books and now, overnight, they became Democrats. ... people in public life, former Chiefs of OzA in politics who live longer than the Galapagos Turtle, that is the reality of the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50119	And the last debate, dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50120	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. When I entered the Croatian Parliament I knew what was waiting for me and I can't say that I was disappointed but I can say that I am not satisfied with the way I choose outside candidates as I am not satisfied with the work of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, it's all about trade here, and it's unfortunate that outside candidates are also elected to the trade principle. I will now say one very important thing, the Franak Association had two very high-quality candidates and only because of these commercial principles, one association that I would have said achieved significant results in the Republic of Croatia more significantly than all of us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament and that association could not get any candidates in any committee. It's a shame of this Parliament, it's a shame of this kind of work and it's proof that everything is according to the commercial principle. I'm not even happy with my own club, because my club was first against a candidate who traded with my party, with the SNAGA party to enter as an outside associate, later torn it up with the Living Wall. So everyone's ready for the store. It's sad and we won't get far. We must follow the principles of quality, the principles of work results, the principles of values of human, human and true values. Otherwise we won't get anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50121	Thank you. That's what we came up with at the end of the debate. There's no one else, no one's answering. So now I will put to the vote the motion for a decision of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, so I would like to ask you to vote unitedly. I find that most of the votes, 81 votes in favour, 4 votes abstentions and 4 votes against the decision proposed by the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Resolutions. And that's when we came to the end of the fifth session. I'm the one who's locking them up. The next sixth session will begin at 8. 11 at 9.30 minutes by adopting the agenda and the current morning. Just one more piece of information. So before that, the session of the extended Croatian Parliament Presidency will be held at 12.00 hours. I thank you all and I'll see you soon! Session closed in 13.50 hours. Now we move to choice, appointments and resolutions. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Antu Sanader to explain the proposal for a Decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The selection and appointment committee proposes a Decision appointing the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. For the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Daniel Gluncic is proposed. Shall we read everything?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50124	Well, we're not going to have a discussion, so we're going to go dot by point because they're different topics, not just committees, but we have this. So I'm opening a debate on this. If he doesn't, I'm closing the hearing. Are we going to vote right now? And we're going straight to the vote. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is.]] So I am voting on the proposal presented to us by the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Ante Sanader, which is a decision on the appointment of the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament for which Daniel Gluncic was proposed. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 117 votes for that proposal, it has been voted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50125	A member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Željko Jovanovic, a member of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee, is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50126	I'm opening a debate. If there are no interested, I'm closing the hearing. And I am voting on the proposal presented to us by the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. I find that with 11 votes for the proposal adopted, it was brought out by the president of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50127	Željko Glasnović is proposed as a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50128	I'm opening a debate. If there are no interested, I close the debate and put that proposal to the vote. I find that with 102 votes in favour and 1 vote against that proposal, it has been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50129	It is proposed that a member of the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs be dismissed. Drage Prgomet, a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50130	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing it right now. And I am voting on the proposal. Please join the vote. I find that 121 votes for that proposal have been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50131	A member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament Anton Kleman is proposed and Davor Ivo Stier is proposed as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50132	I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and voting on that proposal. I find that by 118 votes for, therefore, the proposal was unanimously accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50133	The President of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament Jasen Mesic is proposed and Dr Andrija Mikulić is proposed for the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media be resolved from the Croatian Parliament of Dr Andrija Mikulić, and Sanja Putica is proposed for a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50134	I'm opening a debate. I am concluding the debate and voting on those proposals. Please, let's vote. I find that, with 113 votes for and 1 abstention, that decision has been taken. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50135	A member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Jasen Mesic, is proposed and Davor Ivo Stier is proposed for members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Davor Ivo Stier, is hereby dismissed, and Anton Kliman is proposed as deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50136	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I close the debate and put those proposals to the vote. Please, let's vote. And these proposals received unanimous support from 117 votes in favour. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50137	A member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency Damir Felak is proposed, and Dragica Roscic is proposed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50138	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50139	Dear President, I think this is the last one, so I'm taking the opportunity to ask you again when we're going to appoint outside members of the Croatian Parliament's working bodies especially the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50140	Unfortunately, it's not the last of you all, it's still there. This is what it's all about. I ask you, therefore, not to depend, this is now asking me a question as if I'm the only one responsible for it. You know very well that I'm not. I appeal to the representatives of the clubs to agree as soon as possible and to appoint not only that, but all the fallen members of the board, especially those outside members. So, now we are, we must vote. Right? We didn't vote, then please vote for the committee president's proposal. I find that, unanimously with 116 votes for that proposal, it has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50141	The decision to appoint members and suspend the term of office of members of the Committee of Awards Ivan Filipovic. For members of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipović are proposed: Sanja Putica, Dr. Wilmica Kapac, mr. Hrvoje Šlezak, Momir Karin, Jadranka Žarković Pečenković, Mile Zivčić, Sunčica Findak, Nikica Mihaljevic. Members of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipovic was appointed by a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipović and the termination of the term of office of president and members of the Committee of the Award Ivan Filipovic from the start of the term of office of 30 January 2015. The mandate expired on 30 January 2017 during the legal period of 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50142	I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and making that proposal a vote. I find that with 114 votes in favour and 2 votes, the proposed proposal was abstentioned. I thank the president of the Anti Sanader Committee. Now we move on to choices, appointments and resolutions. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs of my colleague, Antu Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50144	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a well-respected colleague and colleagues who are proposing a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. It is proposed that a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee, Davor Miličević, be dismissed, and that Dr Tomislav Sokol be transferred as a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50145	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate, and I'm putting it to the vote, and I'm proposing how he was formulated by his colleague Sanader. Join the vote. I find that a unanimous decision has been made as proposed by the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50146	The next is a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Željko Raguža, is proposed and Dr Tomislav Sokol is proposed as a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50147	I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 105 votes for the decision made as tabled by the board. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50148	Proposal for a decision on discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Šuker, and that Dr Tomislav Sokol be represented as a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50149	I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and I am giving the proposal to starve. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous, 103 votes in favour of the decision taken as tabled by the board. And the last proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50150	Proposal for a decision on a member of the Croatian War Veterans Committee. A member of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, Frank Vidovic, is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50151	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I shall put that proposal to the vote. I find that, unanimously with 106 votes, the decision was made as proposed by the board. This brings us to the end of today's vote. So we have two points left. Here's my colleague Panenic. Wait a minute, is that a break? Just a second, I'll just give you some information, and then... So the vote is scheduled for Friday at 1200 hours as we have so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope we agree on some important things, so there may be reasons for contentment. We're going to work without a break today, considering we had a vote today, so we spent an hour and 20 minutes, and we're going to work without a break. The dots we announced last week. Now we're going to choose appointments and resolutions, so I'd like the chairman of the selection and appointment and administrative affairs committee, Antu Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go. I'm sorry, Ante, so here's 5 points, they're actually connected, they're all full of board members and board members, are you agreeing to introduce a fellow Sanader all of a sudden, so let's vote as we do every time. If it's okay, then I'm asking you to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50153	Thank you. Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Robert Podljenjak, but for a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Ines Strenja-Linić. A member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Marko Sladoljev, is proposed, but Božo Petrov is proposed as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Ines Strenja-Linić, and Vlaho Orepić is proposed as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Irene Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic, a member of the Committee on Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by Dr. Tomislav Sokol. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament Darko Parić be resolved, and Hope Turina Đurić is proposed as a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50154	Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50155	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Since 9 June, we have a different assembly of parliaments, or a different parliamentary majority, at the meeting on 9 June, then independent representatives, and now GLAS representatives are resolved on boards. There are five of us in the club and we are on eight committees and that if we declare Nada Turin Đurić it will be the ninth committee he is on. Just because we're decent and decent doesn't mean we're stupid, so I'm asking nicely that something be done and that, in accordance with the other parliamentary representatives, we're on the relevant parliamentary committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50156	I agree, colleague Hasanbegovic only for a second, so I believe that this is about the distribution of the board in a section belonging to the parliamentary minority, so I would ask you then to consult with regard to us in HDZ, and I believe that coalition partners will have no problem with that vote. Comrade Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50157	Your Honor. I would refer to Mrak-Taritash's presentation, so I appeal to the conscience of certain clubs to withdraw members who are in a somewhat usurpering position in relation to their political strength and schedule in Parliament and to allow all clubs to have their members in individual parliamentary committees according to their strength. So these consultations that you mentioned, we've been doing without any success for two months, it's ignored, I'm sure the parliamentary majority might be in some way responding. So I urge and appeal to my conscience and including your conscience as President of the Croatian Parliament to speed up this process by your authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50158	Thank you for your trust. So here I am asking MPs and MPs and clubs who belong to the parliamentary minority opposition to agree between themselves because I really don't want to either, and my colleagues and colleagues to accept responsibility for what is not in our part of responsibility. Please meet as soon as possible and include in committees proportionately and those constituencies who have the right to do so. That's what I as Parliament Speaker of Parliament can do. I'd like to ask you now to vote on what my colleague Sanader has suggested, so I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Here's your vote. I find that, unanimously with 99 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the board. Now we move on to the election, appointments and resolutions, please the presidents of the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for a decision. So, it's a lot of suggestions, so we'd like to ask you to have a united discussion, if someone has a particular decision, let them say it, and then we'll have a special vote on that point. Is that okay, acceptable? Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50160	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The appointment committee proposes, resolved as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, Davor Bernardic, and a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is proposed by Franco Vidovic. It is proposed that members of the Information and Information Committee, the media of the Croatian Parliament of Davor Bernardić, be released, and the media of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by Goran Beus Richembergh as a member of the Committee for Information and Information. For a member of the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Bruno Esih was proposed to act as a member of the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. For a member of the island council and the order of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Arsen Bauk is proposed, as the office of an island council member has ceased to act on behalf of Ivan Klarin for the term of office. For the external members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, the members are proposed by Ivan Čizmic, Branimir Kos, Damir Sesvecan, Mario Vinković, Ivan Milotic, Goran Vojkoić. The appointment goes to 6:11. Proposal for a Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Mladen Dragicevic, Natko Vlahović, Marko Babić, Daniel Mondekar, Nika Šimurina and Dominik Puletić. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, the foreign policy of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by Branko Caratan, Marin Jurjevic, Vanja Ivan Savic, Visnja Elderina, Dora Zgrabljić Rotar and Goran Bandov. The Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Željka Antunović, Ante Kotromanović, Tanja Vrbat Grgić, Miljenko Kolobarić, Ivan Pokaz and Marko Cvitković. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament proposes, Matija Kroflin, Zdenko Adrović, Marina Rožić, Željko Lovrinčević, David Krmpotić, Daniel Ferić. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Petra Šimunović, Davor Majetic, Ivan Barbarić, Dragutin Ranogajec, Josip Ptica and Anto Bajo. The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Ivan Rambašić, Andreja Tomic, Dora Smolčić Jurdan. The Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Assembly is proposed: Zdenko Babić, Željko Mrac, Vesna Škulić, Luka Madđerić. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Loris Rak, Evelyn Tonković, Tomislav Mrle, Nikša Valjalo, Snježana Vasiljevic, Goran Jarić. The Committee for Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Assembly are proposed: Željka Obradović, Bernard Jakelić, Davorko Vidović and Marinko Ucur. The Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Trpimir Goluža, Mario Gazić, Nikica Daraboš, Tibor Santo, Hrvoje Pezo, Višnja Fortuna. The Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Tihomir Horvat, Aleksandra Korač Grahovac and Daniel Bolčević. The Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia proposes Ivo Jelusic, Ivana Posavec Krivec, Veseljko Jovanovic and Ivan Bagarić. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Đuro Škvorc, Vedran Černi and Željko Poljak. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly proposes: Nike Sudarević, Jasminka Pilar Katavić, Jasna Matulić. The Committee for the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Robert Podrug, Sinisa Širac and Boran Ognjenović. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Željko Tanjic, Ljiljana Dobrovšak, Neven Budak, Damir Boras, Valter Bolunčić and Zvonimir Peranić. The Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament is proposed: Zoran Vasic, Đurdjica Sumrak and Nikolina Babić. The Committee for Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament is proposed: Jaksa Baloevic, Šimun Angelinović and Sonja Cikotic. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament proposes Jadranka Fžržop, Bojan Hlača, Dino Posavec, Tihomir Barišić and Marko Silađi. The Committee for Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament is proposed: Davor Pavić, Sreko Prussian, Denis Hrestak, Predrag Haramija and Nedeljko Marković. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament proposes: Verica Rupčić, Ivan Šimović and Sandra Mitrović Nikšić. The Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Assembly proposes: Mirjana Lichtner Kristic, Jadranka Nikolov, Vojko Oberstnel, Zlatko Komadina, Goran Spider and Ivo Zelic, Smiljan Mustapić, Nives Kopatitić Škrec. For members of the National Council for the Monitoring and Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy are proposed: Ivica Kruhoberec, Gordan Žmuk, Krešimir Planinić, Ivana Kalogera Brkić, Smiljana Škugor Hrnčević and Branko Roglic. Decision on the discharge of the President and members of the Committee and the termination of the term of office of the Committee for the award of the Faust Vrančić award of the President and members of the Committee for the award of the Faust Vrancic Award. The duties of the chairman of the Committee of Prof. Dr. Nedjeljko Perić and members of the committee Prof. Dr. Stjepan Car, Prof. Dr. Bozidar Matijević, Tihomir Tomčić, Dubravko Diklic and Prof. Dr. Ante Markotic. On 14 October, a member of the Committee for the Award of the Faust Vrancic of the members of the Committee for Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament ends the term of office of Dr Damir Tomić. In the Committee for the Award of the Faust Vrancic, they are proposed to the president of Prof. Dr. Zdenko Kovačić, and for the members of Doc Dr. Ivan Uroda, Vlado Lendvai, Nikola Dmitrović, Prof. Dr. Ante Markotic, Dubravko Diklic and academician Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50161	Thank you, fellow Sanader. So now I'm opening a united debate. Is anyone there to answer? A colleague, Jovanovic, and a colleague, Misic. That's it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50162	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I can first say there's always a good and bad side to every news. The good news is that we finally elected members of the National Council, i.e. we will choose them since the competition was opened in December 2016. Of course there's a bad side. I, as president of that council, must say a few sentences. The first disaster is the preparation of Mr. Sanader of your board who wrote the decision very unprofessionally. And I urge you to read the 2012 decision on the appointment of members of the National Council. Secondly, I have to say, unfortunately, despite the very high-quality candidates who are proposed, I don't know which key has chosen a part of the candidate who doesn't meet the conditions at all. This is a specific council. This Council shall have six external members. Those external members shall be selected precisely by a specific key as indicated in the public call. So these are representatives of employers, union representatives, representatives of NGOs dealing with corruption. I especially stress this, the problem of corruption. Representatives of the academic community, experts and media representatives. Here it is proposed that on behalf of the NGO representative dealing with the problem of corruption be from the Family Association. I ask you if the association "On behalf of the family so far has dealt in any way with curbing and the problem of corruption other than being corrupt in relation to Bandic for what he is in court for? So, how can such a representative at the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy represent a civil society dealing with the problem of corruption, and let's say there is no place for a GONG representative who has been proven to be a body dealing with the problem of corruption. There was no place for Zorislav Antun Petrovic, who only met the requirements of these criteria to be a member of the National Council of Experts. Therefore, I will not trouble this choice because I want the council to start working but I warn Mr. Sanader that because of the way his body works, because of the way this decision was addressed, it can certainly fall to the complainants of those who have come forward and have not been elected to the National Council. Since it is the 6th day when this decision takes effect, therefore the National Council of Dreams may meet before then, but I therefore call on the Committee on Selection and Appointing to make another change that is necessary. Namely, the National Council has four MPs in its order with the president, four of them coming out of the opposition, two coming out of the majority. At this point, Mr Milorad Batinic, who has been elected as representative, is no longer in opposition, is now in the majority section, and thus until 6th, when this decision takes effect, he must choose a new member of the National Council from the ranks of the opposition. I hope that after that, the National Council will be able to begin work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50163	There's a replica, a respected colleague, Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50164	As far as I know, it's the National Council for the fight against corruption. Mr. Planenic is a lawyer, isn't he? What's the problem? If maybe it was from platform 112, the documents from the Peace Studies Centre, then it would fit. When he's proposed by an association on behalf of the family, he doesn't answer, does he, Mr. Jovanovic? I don't know if you suspect he's not competent for this, or if he's not answering you in the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50165	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50166	So, from the proposition clearly stated in the public call, it is clear that the association In the name of the family is not part of a civil society dealing with the problem of corruption and Mr. Planenic's résumé shows that he is not an expert in the fight against corruption. So he couldn't have been in the work of people who meet the criteria for a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy and I'm not talking about it at all, I'm talking about meeting the criteria set out in the decision to set up a National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50167	All right, let's move on. Second debate, colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50168	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I, as vice president of the Committee on Immigrants, disagree with a team that are members of the outsiders who have entered the short-listed election. Why? Because they were people who usually made the Law on evicted Croats and eventually an office that was founded, say Bruno Ivkić, who did it all, today he's not listed as an outside member of the board, so I wonder why? I believe that he deserved to be on the board as an external member and that he is responsible at all for what there is in the Office for Immigrants, therefore, I would like to discuss on this subject and bring a little different one, to include him on the board. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50169	Okay, so does that mean that there's a special vote on this item, or are you going to vote, and then we're going to discuss this later?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50170	Well, no, I'm just asking how it got in that it wasn't done properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50171	Like everything else. It's a matter of inter-party consultation. Okay, let's go to the third hearing, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50172	So, I would inform the Croatian public and representatives of the Croatian Parliament in fact about the unknown circumstances of the choice of members of these committees. So, as always, the résumés were completely irrelevant, it was a political party trade between HDZ and SDP, from which the club is UNOSICT FOR CROATIA, for my unknown reasons, was completely abandoned. So Mr. Bauk and Bacic split the party quotas and left us out. Mr. Bauk said you're in HDZ quota. They even did a solid draw in secret, the gentlemen were the lotto girls in other words, according to the trade quota of the club UNIFORM FOR CROATIA go two places as well as for example the club IDS which received those two places, in other words this is the most common store. Mr. Jovanovic, you participated in it and there is no reason to selectively take out individual choosers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50173	All right, let's move on. Fourth debate, dear colleague Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50174	... I wonder here what the criteria are, how the success of working in the Parliament is estimated, is that by stating here. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Mr. Misic mentioned some people, not by names, which are longer on the hair than Saddam Hussein, are again involved in the Parliament, what is the performance. The Committee for Croats outside the country,... Millions of Croats out there, no correspondence at all, I don't see any of this effect besides statging. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wanted to say something else, I won't, it's not for this public debate. What are the criteria for this choice? Are your criteria for being a party member, for having a record in Belgrade? People who burned the party books and now, overnight, they became Democrats. ... people in public life, former Chiefs of OzA in politics who live longer than the Galapagos Turtle, that is the reality of the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50175	And the last debate, dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50176	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. When I entered the Croatian Parliament I knew what was waiting for me and I can't say that I was disappointed but I can say that I am not satisfied with the way I choose outside candidates as I am not satisfied with the work of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, it's all about trade here, and it's unfortunate that outside candidates are also elected to the trade principle. I will now say one very important thing, the Franak Association had two very high-quality candidates and only because of these commercial principles, one association that I would have said achieved significant results in the Republic of Croatia more significantly than all of us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament and that association could not get any candidates in any committee. It's a shame of this Parliament, it's a shame of this kind of work and it's proof that everything is according to the commercial principle. I'm not even happy with my own club, because my club was first against a candidate who traded with my party, with the SNAGA party to enter as an outside associate, later torn it up with the Living Wall. So everyone's ready for the store. It's sad and we won't get far. We must follow the principles of quality, the principles of work results, the principles of values of human, human and true values. Otherwise we won't get anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50177	Thank you. That's what we came up with at the end of the debate. There's no one else, no one's answering. So now I will put to the vote the motion for a decision of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, so I would like to ask you to vote unitedly. I find that most of the votes, 81 votes in favour, 4 votes abstentions and 4 votes against the decision proposed by the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Resolutions. And that's when we came to the end of the fifth session. I'm the one who's locking them up. The next sixth session will begin at 8. 11 at 9.30 minutes by adopting the agenda and the current morning. Just one more piece of information. So before that, the session of the extended Croatian Parliament Presidency will be held at 12.00 hours. I thank you all and I'll see you soon! Session closed in 13.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50178	Now we move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 106. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this point, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments can be submitted, submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does Mr Jure Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. It is my honor to present to you this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. As you know, it's a second reading. He passed in the first reading and everything in this final proposal was incorporated, what we considered professionally relevant. This is about a small procedure in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. The primary goal was to implement the EU Directive, which refers to the criminal law sphere, and then, when we've done the procedure, we've made a few small cosmetic changes in several articles, and I'm going to present it to you now. So this latest Penal Code that we are amending was passed in 2011 came into force in 2013. During the drafting of the Penal Code, great attention has been paid to the analysis of international standards and their implementation in criminal and material legislation following which the Republic of Croatia received a modern and European law in line with numerous international documents, directives, framework decisions, conventions and recommendations. However, the application of each law in practice is a sort of test of its provisions through practical application as well as the continued development of international and criminal instruments. They have resulted in the fact that before you now the third amendments to the Penal Code and that all the amendments and additions so far have been done so also in the drafting of this law by prominent theorists and practitioners of criminal law in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Representatives of the academic community, State Attorney's Office, courts, and due to the specificity of these amendments and experts of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Of course, the law has passed the prescribed procedure, consulting the interested public, which means that this proposal has had the opportunity to get to know and give its pain to the public. Following the debate at the third session on 29 March 2017, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, and this final bill was drawn up in accordance with these observations and opinions. So under number one, Directive No 57 of 2014 has been implemented. The European Parliament and the Council. Therefore, this is about expanding the criminal zone in the criminal offences of capital market abuse. A small operation has been carried out in two criminal acts, where we have adapted our legislation, to EU standards. Then after that we did a procedure in the famous, I would say to the general public not only the professional institute of working for the general good. He is often troubled in both the professional and the general public, and we have now done one procedure in a way that narrows down a little, therefore narrows down the ability to express work for the general good as a substitute, so as to replace prison sentences and fines. So I suppose most people consider it justified, but so is the legislator, in fact, so we suggest that you adopt these amendments, to slightly reduce this possibility, given that it is primarily said to the general public, but also professionally to narrow down this possibility of expressing work for the general good, especially when it is done in more serious criminal acts. So we have set up this amendment that it will not be possible to work for the common good as a substitution of prison sentences which are pronounced and fines to be pronounced where the sentence of prison or fines has been imposed beyond one limit. So we put down that censorship and narrowed down the possibility of the courts saying, using that institute. In addition, amendments to the level of criminal sanctions in criminal offences of illicit production are proposed in Article 263(1). Article 264(1) of the Code of Penalty and Unlicensed Trade Penalty by prescribing special maximums to three years in prison. The applicable Penal Code for both acts provides for a prison sentence of up to one year. It's about criminal acts of drug abuse, and it's about the point of view that it has to be raised to the maximum. These are the same technical changes in order for special incidents to affect this, as it is very difficult to establish that starting point, which is the starting point for these crimes, so by raising this maximum, therefore slightly wider powers of the law enforcement body in the processing of these offences. We have complemented, therefore, the motion for this bill also proposes adding to the definition of hate crime as well as the addition of the criminal act of public inciting violence and hatred by prescribing language as an additional discriminatory motive, extending the circle of existing discriminatory motives will contribute to a stronger fight against discrimination, and to allow sanctioning and those cases which have so far been unscrupulous under the feature of the criminal offences in question. In addition to the above, the new discriminatory basis will lead to further harmonisation of the Penal Code with discriminatory grounds contained in Article 14(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 1 The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. The new thing and another thing we've regulated, it's the same technical nature. So, I would like to point out that the proposer proposes this bill to abolish dualism when deciding on parole. Accordingly, according to a valid solution, a conditional discharge shall be decided by the court when the sentence is imposed under the new Penal Code, i.e. the Procedural Dismission Committee when the sentence is imposed under the old Penal Code. This amendment will result in exclusive judicial jurisdiction in making decisions on conditional discharge. The commission will still decide on several requests for parole pending. So for those who have filed an application until the moment these amendments take effect, the circus has 30 of them, and everyone else in the future will be decided by the court which is otherwise the intensity of the last few changes we've made when we've changed the Penal Code. Therefore, that conditional discharge is decided by the courts, not by the state administration, or by the administrative, or by the executive authority to which the ministry belongs. It had before some more powerful intelligence. It now teaches judges the execution that will make that thing convinced we're working in a socially more acceptable way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50180	Thank you, too, Mr. Martinovic. So the Legislative Committee and the Justice Committee held a debate. Would anyone like to take a word for those committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In front of the SDP representative club, Mr Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, assistant, I welcome you all. So I'll talk let's say on two levels. The first is these legal changes are good, welcome and we will support them. So it's something that you need and certainly useful and this is about probation, this is a way to strengthen the digestive system. As far as compliance with the European Directive is concerned, absolutely, it will help that some of the things that may be happening now do not remain unpunished and what you have said about the parole committee, we have decided according to the court's decision and it is good that there is no dualism that it eventually disappears. But here I may not orthodoxly appeal that the law goes into three readings. Of course it's up to you to decide, and I'll tell you the reasons. One of these concerns, and in fact one and the other concerns the concept of an official person and who we experience and protect as official persons. One is doctors, nurses, and the other are journalists and that's something I'm going to say in my day was asked to change it, I wasn't inclined to change, but unfortunately what's been happening since the last 3.4 years suggests that maybe you should really consider changing. We have more and more attacks on doctors and on general medical staff, now we have opened the Penal Code and I would suggest you take a break and consider how much and what would bring criminal legal protection to the medical staff doctor. They're being attacked by patients, exposed to everything, appealed for a long time, let's say maybe it's worth discussing, putting it on the table, and deciding whether we're going that way or not. The other thing is very similar, as far as the press is concerned. Lately, we've been recording and I'm going to talk about two segments, there's one attack on journalists who, according to the current regime, are actually not in official status again, they're going to be fined, and for certain things they won't even go on official duty of persecution and that's bad. The second segment that I have to say is particularly concerned, even more than these two, it's what happens to our colleague Lucic, not to him, and I won't even talk about a specific subject, but the fact is, and I think none of us here in the Parliament will doubt and doubt that trying to bribe journalists, I'm not going in here whether he did it or not, it's none of my business that anyone has worked, that it's an attempt at bribery and that should be punished. But at this point, we have the position of one of the county judges, right, that it is not a criminal act because journalists are not official. I expect that through second-degree decision, it will be corrected, but if it isn't corrected, we're in big trouble with society. This means that the law is not clear to us and that what we have here as parliamentary representatives, I am convinced and you in the ministry mean that it is and that we should act. Well, we took off immunity here for that, not getting in, but we said that when someone tries to bribe a reporter, it's a crime. So that's our position as Parliamentarians. We are now in a situation that the first-degree court interprets not. The court has the right, the court interprets the law, it may be saying that the law is not clear to us because if a second-degree court confirms it, as I said, we are in trouble. And I would appeal there maybe even a little step, it won't affect a specific subject, it has nothing to do with it because the change of law applies only pro futuro, so what is here is, but really court practice takes a stand, that they can't be bribed journalists in this sense then needs to change the law. I don't know what's going to happen, but I would suggest and I know it's unusual, so with all this is good and what the law is making, but this is one uncertainty we're going to see. The press is the last public authority controller of whoever they are. To any of us, I'm not comfortable with the first one when they don't write anything about you that's good, but if we don't set the standard that trying to distract journalists is a crime for whoever did it, then we're like society in a big problem, and here that standard hangs us because, as I said, the case law goes one way. And I would therefore appeal to wait, that decision will be very soon, but if we rise up that the law is unclear in a way that courts interpret it that journalists are not official, that this crime against them cannot be committed, let's bring it into the amendments to the law now we have a chance. It will refer to the future, I say again, it will not refer to the current subject, it has nothing to do with it, it will refer to the future. But that's two things why I said I'd be unorthodox and I'd suggest a little delay, of course it's up to you to evaluate, you can go with this, but criminal law is not something to open up, which we need to solve now and again in three months, etc., but we have this problem. We have a problem with doctors who have long appealed to protect them through the Penal Code. I said my burden wasn't done, but since then there's been enough attacks to indicate that we should, we have a problem with journalists the same thing and we have this bribery problem. Think about it if this is what we're going to support, like I said, what you put on because it's well done, but let's think strategically. If these things really come true for us, let's not go through with it now, let's go and change it, have one Penal Code that's usually packed up and can be without touching things for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50182	Thank you, too. Mr. Marko Simic, he's not here, and he is, I haven't seen you. Here you go, in front of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50183	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code was passed in 2011, so it came into force on 1 January 2013. Since then, he has experienced two changes and one correction. The first amendment of the law took place in 2012 before the law came into force, so that the first amendments actually took effect together with the criminal law while the other amendments were due to the problems observed in practice and the need for further harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU and international documents and the need for the new technical improvement and therefore to make the law more understandable and better. It is important to stress that this is the second reading of this legislative proposal and that the Government or the Ministry of Justice has, after the first reading debate, respected all or most of the remarks and proposals made in order to improve this bill. It should be pointed out that when drawing up this law, great attention is paid to the analysis of international standards and their implementation in criminal and material legislation in other countries with similar legal systems, such as the Republic of Croatia. The result is evident in the fact that the Republic of Croatia has a modern, modern European law in line with a number of international documents, directives, framework decisions, conventions, recommendations and ultimately the EU acquis. This final draft of the law proposes third amendments and additions to the Penal Code, and the reason for this is primarily the harmonisation of domestic legislation with the acquis of the EU, as was the second amendment in 2015. The harmonisation of domestic legislation should be carried out in the area of capital market abuse through the transposition and implementation of Directive 57/2014, the European Parliament and the Council on criminal law sanctions for market abuse. Furthermore, in order to implement the Penal Code, it is also necessary to implement a series of regulations and directives which are introduced by this legal proposal into criminal law or, perhaps more frequently, the Criminal Law actually calls for the provisions of these Regulations and Directives. The remaining changes are the result of the needs of practice, the need to remove perceived ambiguities, to comply with the applicable national law, so with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, what we will see and when we move on to other changes. In the first instance, it should be pointed out that, given the observed practice of the courts, it proposes to amend the work for the general good, it goes in the direction of limiting the existing assumptions for its pronunciation, thus determining the cash amount, i.e. the amount of the fine of 360 daily incomes under which it can actually be said and therefore, work for the general good as well as the prison sentence of less than one year for which this substitute may occur on the general good. Amendments are made in the area of changing the level of criminal sanctions in criminal offences of illicit trade and illicit production, prescribing a special maximum of up to three years in prison. The proposed amendments allow the sanctioning of those offences in the composition of the criminal association, as well as the carrying out of specific evidence activities in the same criminal or criminal area. Furthermore, at the HDZ Club, we find it really important that the ministry recognises the potential potential for new forms of threat, and this law also proposes to tighten existing criminal justice policy against the criminal offence of illegal investment, movement and residence in the Republic of Croatia, another EU Member State or signatories of the Schengen Agreement. The proposer also proposes to supplement the definition of hate crime as well as the addition of the criminal act of public inciting violence and hatred, by prescribing language as one of the additional, therefore, discriminatory motives. We believe that this enlargement is good, but until now it has been tried for crimes, so discrimination in the discriminatory form of ethnicity under which it has been subdued has often been subject to discrimination based on language. Finally, it should be pointed out that the proposal proposed by this final draft law proposes the abolition of dualism in the decision-making process, which will result in exclusive judicial jurisdiction in decision-making in the proceedings in question. We believe that a good solution that will regulate treatment against the requirements for parole which have already been taken to the moment of entry into force of this law, and as far as the penalties that comply with the provisions of the Penal Code are concerned, because the number of cases in which the Commission will decide to shut down or cease its work is really small, we have heard and we are familiar with the fact that everything may be thirty items. It should certainly be noted that, in this final draft of the law, parliamentary committees, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislatives have actually supported such a bill, so I do not see any debate in some other parts of the Penal Code as disputed opening. It should also be pointed out that the Ministry of Justice led by the minister has really done a good job because, between the two discussions, all the good proposals and remarks that would improve this law and enter into the final proposal for this law. In the end, I will stress that the club of councilors, the club of HDZ representatives in the Croatian Parliament, will support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50184	Thank you, too. Mr. Gordan Maras isn't here. Tell him he's coming when he's already writing in, I mean it. And Mr. Juro Martinovic, on behalf of the promoter, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here I have the need for a few sentences only because of a discussion which the distinguished representative of my colleague Milenić and my fellow lawyer have presented on this proposal, where he is essentially troublesome or advocated by a third reading which, against which I am principled, given that this initiative has come to an end and that otherwise he would consider it well-intentioned, this is how I really see it as some kind of political parliamentary trick that is legitimate and allowed. But I have a need to say something about doctors who, in this advocacy and the proposal as something more than the government and we in the ministry would like to protect my colleague Milenic. So, this initiative has been in procedures for a long time from various associations, doctors and it has its legitimacy and I would say one level of justification. But what's this about? Everyone in this country is therefore protected from attacks on integrity in any way by doctors. In this case, it is said that the privileged protection to place them in official persons whenever they do their jobs and when there is an attack of a patient on them, which would mean that this zone, this attack against them, it is not decriminal, it is as such criminalised but it does not have the mild privilege to treat this attack as an attack on an official person and that the state is then persecuting him, but in such a situation if it does not end with serious consequences, if the state were to prosecute again, then they would have to be used by a private suit tool in a procedural sense and that thing to do. But this ministry has a sensitivity to the medical profession, we've been taking this seriously but this initiative in this assembly of the ministry is I'd say came late, it's being considered but it has its own more dimensions. Accept this uncritically advocates doctors, and then the journalists will go and they will all be in that same, will become our entire Croatian official state and that is not the purpose of the legislation. So everyone protects themselves but as some other social good. The primary social well is the integrity of every person physically, morally, and every other, here, by means of this institute, some people are being subjected to the status of an official being protected primarily by their service, the functioning of the system. At the moment it's somewhere on the border, it's polemized, if it's done, it's only going to be done because of the fact that doctors want to give something more powerful protection that they advocate, but it's always a danger to open Pandora's box and that everyone's asking them to have this privileged status. But since the population is really sensitive, the structures of the people who do so are sensitive. Maybe this social moment is what I'm not usually inclined to change the laws for some of the social moments that it is today, these lines of waiting, so maybe patients are more nervous than usual and that's the only reason we're going. As far as the press is concerned, I believe that at this point there is no serious justification in professional terms, despite the fact that their profession will also get something from the support of that so-called so-called. The general public, but I don't think the professional public thinks that for the same reasons I talked about doctors that they should get official status in case they experience an attack at their workplace and their workplace is on the street in the Parliament, wherever they are. The third point he has imposed as a topic for discussion, this occasion by Milenic is the case of Mr Lucic, whom today this House has taken away, so immunity, allowed law enforcement authorities to do their job and I am against it as a lawyer to and as a sort of politician that in any way this parliament but also the executive authority that I am currently mixed with any position in the jurisdiction of the judicial authority that I wish to trust. It would be premature even any discussion since this is really the first stage, if that's true, I don't officially know that the judge has taken a stand, so the counter-representation of the state's attorney's office that he's persecuting, that's really the first truth. As a lawyer, I had cases that I had one attitude towards the Constitutional Court, so that attitude was legally changed only because two people took a different legal position, I believe there is no reason for us to in any way commit ourselves professionally in this regard, and especially not to push this law, amendments and additions of the Penal Code into some sort of 3rd reading and yes. Here, so that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50186	Yes, Secretary of State just to take advantage of the opportunity to sit here and ask you. So you told the journalist that you didn't see the reasons, and I don't see the reasons at that point, and the official has certain duties that would limit the rights of journalists then to some, to complete freedom, whether it's on their own, their professions. That's, that's the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50187	And it increased responsibility in some things at least that's not what this is about, but here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50188	I think that's the point, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50189	That is also the case with doctors, so they would get, they would get a mild privilege of being persecuted in some way but on the other hand they would impose obligations and each would respond as official persons who do not now respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50190	Okay. We have one replica, you can stay here, I think you can. Yes, here you go. [[I'm done. Yes, I did, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50191	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Secretary of State Mr. Martinović, I would just remind myself of the figure to say that about 540 doctors have left Croatia, that we lack 4,000 specialists' doctors, and it would really be good to at least make a contribution to the protection of doctors and these professions so that at least some of them can keep more or some of the young doctors focused on specialization so that Croatia really wouldn't have a big problem on the subject for a few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50192	Thank you very much for this contribution to the story. As far as I'm concerned, I think it's a primary political and economic issue, at least legally, but here we are in the sphere of law and we're talking about it. If it were some universal conclusion of the expert and general public, to stop us from draining our doctors, I'd be the first one not to raise my hand because I don't have it in the Parliament, but I'd suggest it goes away. But I think there are roots in another segment, but not in the legal segment. But we can think about it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50193	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On Wednesday at 9.30 we continue with what President Jandrokovic told you before with the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Have a nice weekend and I'll see you Wednesday. Session interrupted at 13.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50194	Let's move forward Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 106. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Ines Strenja-Linić. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. With us is Secretary of State Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50195	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, MPs. The government does not accept this amendment for the following reasons, so we believe that doctors in criminal law are protected in two ways, so they are first protected as all other persons are life and their body and are further protected qualitatively, so stressed as responsible persons. There are also amendments to these initiatives which are noble and good to be better quality through criminal law to protect doctors and even health care professionals. I'd say there's a long duration, the doctors were wandering their associations they suggested it was going to be protected as official persons so they gave up on their own. They were explained that doctors were further protected as responsible persons and it stands and this is now an attempt to enter a special standard where only doctors are protected and she would have said further so someone needed to be further protected which in our opinion was wrong and would have led to one confusion and would have violated one important principle of criminal law, which is the principle of clarity of the norm. On the other hand, and for legal technical reasons, this proposal has been put into one particular head where social values are protected, human health is completely wrong, given that in the proposal of this member of the law is actually a single mixture, protecting life and body, protecting an attempt to protect the service, but it is placed in the head where human health is protected exclusively. So these are the reasons why the government could not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50196	I'd like a colleague of Ines Strenju-Linić to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50197	I would like to meet once again the parliamentary representatives of what this is about, so we have asked to introduce a new article of coercion towards a healthcare professional, not only to doctors, but to any doctor of medicine, doctor of dental medicine or any other healthcare professional by force, threat, or any evil or attack that prevents or disables his activities from being punished by a prison of six months to five years. We ourselves are aware that violence against healthcare professionals is growing, that this law has not been able to protect him, that all attacks unless they are serious physical injuries end up having to sue privately, and in fact in our Penal Code we have only come to the situation that the doctor is possible to punish for unconscious treatment, but it is not possible to punish whoever makes it impossible to provide health care that is guaranteed to every citizen of our Constitution. And then imagine a colleague who was recently attacked in Sisak who was threatening to kill her, attacked by a wife's husband who was waiting for a hit while she had to read the emergency results of two multiple-injurious accidents. How she can then be concentrated and continue to do her job, and this man who has made it impossible for her to be punished except for that particular private lawsuit. I would ask that votes on this amendment be voted upon and I especially appeal to all doctors in the Croatian Parliament to consider this because this is how we must protect healthcare professionals so that they can consciously carry out their work, which is primarily by the Constitution guaranteed the right, protection and provision of health care to all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50198	I assume you're looking for a vote? Then we approach the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. [[Intruder Linic: Yes.]] The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I thank the Secretary of State. And we move on to a vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Please vote. I find that with 95 votes in favour and 1 abstention and 11 votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50199	Now we move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 106. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this point, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments can be submitted, submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does Mr Jure Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. It is my honor to present to you this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. As you know, it's a second reading. He passed in the first reading and everything in this final proposal was incorporated, what we considered professionally relevant. This is about a small procedure in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. The primary goal was to implement the EU Directive, which refers to the criminal law sphere, and then, when we've done the procedure, we've made a few small cosmetic changes in several articles, and I'm going to present it to you now. So this latest Penal Code that we are amending was passed in 2011 came into force in 2013. During the drafting of the Penal Code, great attention has been paid to the analysis of international standards and their implementation in criminal and material legislation following which the Republic of Croatia received a modern and European law in line with numerous international documents, directives, framework decisions, conventions and recommendations. However, the application of each law in practice is a sort of test of its provisions through practical application as well as the continued development of international and criminal instruments. They have resulted in the fact that before you now the third amendments to the Penal Code and that all the amendments and additions so far have been done so also in the drafting of this law by prominent theorists and practitioners of criminal law in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Representatives of the academic community, State Attorney's Office, courts, and due to the specificity of these amendments and experts of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Of course, the law has passed the prescribed procedure, consulting the interested public, which means that this proposal has had the opportunity to get to know and give its pain to the public. Following the debate at the third session on 29 March 2017, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, and this final bill was drawn up in accordance with these observations and opinions. So under number one, Directive No 57 of 2014 has been implemented. The European Parliament and the Council. Therefore, this is about expanding the criminal zone in the criminal offences of capital market abuse. A small operation has been carried out in two criminal acts, where we have adapted our legislation, to EU standards. Then after that we did a procedure in the famous, I would say to the general public not only the professional institute of working for the general good. He is often troubled in both the professional and the general public, and we have now done one procedure in a way that narrows down a little, therefore narrows down the ability to express work for the general good as a substitute, so as to replace prison sentences and fines. So I suppose most people consider it justified, but so is the legislator, in fact, so we suggest that you adopt these amendments, to slightly reduce this possibility, given that it is primarily said to the general public, but also professionally to narrow down this possibility of expressing work for the general good, especially when it is done in more serious criminal acts. So we have set up this amendment that it will not be possible to work for the common good as a substitution of prison sentences which are pronounced and fines to be pronounced where the sentence of prison or fines has been imposed beyond one limit. So we put down that censorship and narrowed down the possibility of the courts saying, using that institute. In addition, amendments to the level of criminal sanctions in criminal offences of illicit production are proposed in Article 263(1). Article 264(1) of the Code of Penalty and Unlicensed Trade Penalty by prescribing special maximums to three years in prison. The applicable Penal Code for both acts provides for a prison sentence of up to one year. It's about criminal acts of drug abuse, and it's about the point of view that it has to be raised to the maximum. These are the same technical changes in order for special incidents to affect this, as it is very difficult to establish that starting point, which is the starting point for these crimes, so by raising this maximum, therefore slightly wider powers of the law enforcement body in the processing of these offences. We have complemented, therefore, the motion for this bill also proposes adding to the definition of hate crime as well as the addition of the criminal act of public inciting violence and hatred by prescribing language as an additional discriminatory motive, extending the circle of existing discriminatory motives will contribute to a stronger fight against discrimination, and to allow sanctioning and those cases which have so far been unscrupulous under the feature of the criminal offences in question. In addition to the above, the new discriminatory basis will lead to further harmonisation of the Penal Code with discriminatory grounds contained in Article 14(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 1 The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. The new thing and another thing we've regulated, it's the same technical nature. So, I would like to point out that the proposer proposes this bill to abolish dualism when deciding on parole. Accordingly, according to a valid solution, a conditional discharge shall be decided by the court when the sentence is imposed under the new Penal Code, i.e. the Procedural Dismission Committee when the sentence is imposed under the old Penal Code. This amendment will result in exclusive judicial jurisdiction in making decisions on conditional discharge. The commission will still decide on several requests for parole pending. So for those who have filed an application until the moment these amendments take effect, the circus has 30 of them, and everyone else in the future will be decided by the court which is otherwise the intensity of the last few changes we've made when we've changed the Penal Code. Therefore, that conditional discharge is decided by the courts, not by the state administration, or by the administrative, or by the executive authority to which the ministry belongs. It had before some more powerful intelligence. It now teaches judges the execution that will make that thing convinced we're working in a socially more acceptable way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50201	Thank you, too, Mr. Martinovic. So the Legislative Committee and the Justice Committee held a debate. Would anyone like to take a word for those committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In front of the SDP representative club, Mr Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, assistant, I welcome you all. So I'll talk let's say on two levels. The first is these legal changes are good, welcome and we will support them. So it's something that you need and certainly useful and this is about probation, this is a way to strengthen the digestive system. As far as compliance with the European Directive is concerned, absolutely, it will help that some of the things that may be happening now do not remain unpunished and what you have said about the parole committee, we have decided according to the court's decision and it is good that there is no dualism that it eventually disappears. But here I may not orthodoxly appeal that the law goes into three readings. Of course it's up to you to decide, and I'll tell you the reasons. One of these concerns, and in fact one and the other concerns the concept of an official person and who we experience and protect as official persons. One is doctors, nurses, and the other are journalists and that's something I'm going to say in my day was asked to change it, I wasn't inclined to change, but unfortunately what's been happening since the last 3.4 years suggests that maybe you should really consider changing. We have more and more attacks on doctors and on general medical staff, now we have opened the Penal Code and I would suggest you take a break and consider how much and what would bring criminal legal protection to the medical staff doctor. They're being attacked by patients, exposed to everything, appealed for a long time, let's say maybe it's worth discussing, putting it on the table, and deciding whether we're going that way or not. The other thing is very similar, as far as the press is concerned. Lately, we've been recording and I'm going to talk about two segments, there's one attack on journalists who, according to the current regime, are actually not in official status again, they're going to be fined, and for certain things they won't even go on official duty of persecution and that's bad. The second segment that I have to say is particularly concerned, even more than these two, it's what happens to our colleague Lucic, not to him, and I won't even talk about a specific subject, but the fact is, and I think none of us here in the Parliament will doubt and doubt that trying to bribe journalists, I'm not going in here whether he did it or not, it's none of my business that anyone has worked, that it's an attempt at bribery and that should be punished. But at this point, we have the position of one of the county judges, right, that it is not a criminal act because journalists are not official. I expect that through second-degree decision, it will be corrected, but if it isn't corrected, we're in big trouble with society. This means that the law is not clear to us and that what we have here as parliamentary representatives, I am convinced and you in the ministry mean that it is and that we should act. Well, we took off immunity here for that, not getting in, but we said that when someone tries to bribe a reporter, it's a crime. So that's our position as Parliamentarians. We are now in a situation that the first-degree court interprets not. The court has the right, the court interprets the law, it may be saying that the law is not clear to us because if a second-degree court confirms it, as I said, we are in trouble. And I would appeal there maybe even a little step, it won't affect a specific subject, it has nothing to do with it because the change of law applies only pro futuro, so what is here is, but really court practice takes a stand, that they can't be bribed journalists in this sense then needs to change the law. I don't know what's going to happen, but I would suggest and I know it's unusual, so with all this is good and what the law is making, but this is one uncertainty we're going to see. The press is the last public authority controller of whoever they are. To any of us, I'm not comfortable with the first one when they don't write anything about you that's good, but if we don't set the standard that trying to distract journalists is a crime for whoever did it, then we're like society in a big problem, and here that standard hangs us because, as I said, the case law goes one way. And I would therefore appeal to wait, that decision will be very soon, but if we rise up that the law is unclear in a way that courts interpret it that journalists are not official, that this crime against them cannot be committed, let's bring it into the amendments to the law now we have a chance. It will refer to the future, I say again, it will not refer to the current subject, it has nothing to do with it, it will refer to the future. But that's two things why I said I'd be unorthodox and I'd suggest a little delay, of course it's up to you to evaluate, you can go with this, but criminal law is not something to open up, which we need to solve now and again in three months, etc., but we have this problem. We have a problem with doctors who have long appealed to protect them through the Penal Code. I said my burden wasn't done, but since then there's been enough attacks to indicate that we should, we have a problem with journalists the same thing and we have this bribery problem. Think about it if this is what we're going to support, like I said, what you put on because it's well done, but let's think strategically. If these things really come true for us, let's not go through with it now, let's go and change it, have one Penal Code that's usually packed up and can be without touching things for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50203	Thank you, too. Mr. Marko Simic, he's not here, and he is, I haven't seen you. Here you go, in front of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50204	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code was passed in 2011, so it came into force on 1 January 2013. Since then, he has experienced two changes and one correction. The first amendment of the law took place in 2012 before the law came into force, so that the first amendments actually took effect together with the criminal law while the other amendments were due to the problems observed in practice and the need for further harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU and international documents and the need for the new technical improvement and therefore to make the law more understandable and better. It is important to stress that this is the second reading of this legislative proposal and that the Government or the Ministry of Justice has, after the first reading debate, respected all or most of the remarks and proposals made in order to improve this bill. It should be pointed out that when drawing up this law, great attention is paid to the analysis of international standards and their implementation in criminal and material legislation in other countries with similar legal systems, such as the Republic of Croatia. The result is evident in the fact that the Republic of Croatia has a modern, modern European law in line with a number of international documents, directives, framework decisions, conventions, recommendations and ultimately the EU acquis. This final draft of the law proposes third amendments and additions to the Penal Code, and the reason for this is primarily the harmonisation of domestic legislation with the acquis of the EU, as was the second amendment in 2015. The harmonisation of domestic legislation should be carried out in the area of capital market abuse through the transposition and implementation of Directive 57/2014, the European Parliament and the Council on criminal law sanctions for market abuse. Furthermore, in order to implement the Penal Code, it is also necessary to implement a series of regulations and directives which are introduced by this legal proposal into criminal law or, perhaps more frequently, the Criminal Law actually calls for the provisions of these Regulations and Directives. The remaining changes are the result of the needs of practice, the need to remove perceived ambiguities, to comply with the applicable national law, so with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, what we will see and when we move on to other changes. In the first instance, it should be pointed out that, given the observed practice of the courts, it proposes to amend the work for the general good, it goes in the direction of limiting the existing assumptions for its pronunciation, thus determining the cash amount, i.e. the amount of the fine of 360 daily incomes under which it can actually be said and therefore, work for the general good as well as the prison sentence of less than one year for which this substitute may occur on the general good. Amendments are made in the area of changing the level of criminal sanctions in criminal offences of illicit trade and illicit production, prescribing a special maximum of up to three years in prison. The proposed amendments allow the sanctioning of those offences in the composition of the criminal association, as well as the carrying out of specific evidence activities in the same criminal or criminal area. Furthermore, at the HDZ Club, we find it really important that the ministry recognises the potential potential for new forms of threat, and this law also proposes to tighten existing criminal justice policy against the criminal offence of illegal investment, movement and residence in the Republic of Croatia, another EU Member State or signatories of the Schengen Agreement. The proposer also proposes to supplement the definition of hate crime as well as the addition of the criminal act of public inciting violence and hatred, by prescribing language as one of the additional, therefore, discriminatory motives. We believe that this enlargement is good, but until now it has been tried for crimes, so discrimination in the discriminatory form of ethnicity under which it has been subdued has often been subject to discrimination based on language. Finally, it should be pointed out that the proposal proposed by this final draft law proposes the abolition of dualism in the decision-making process, which will result in exclusive judicial jurisdiction in decision-making in the proceedings in question. We believe that a good solution that will regulate treatment against the requirements for parole which have already been taken to the moment of entry into force of this law, and as far as the penalties that comply with the provisions of the Penal Code are concerned, because the number of cases in which the Commission will decide to shut down or cease its work is really small, we have heard and we are familiar with the fact that everything may be thirty items. It should certainly be noted that, in this final draft of the law, parliamentary committees, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislatives have actually supported such a bill, so I do not see any debate in some other parts of the Penal Code as disputed opening. It should also be pointed out that the Ministry of Justice led by the minister has really done a good job because, between the two discussions, all the good proposals and remarks that would improve this law and enter into the final proposal for this law. In the end, I will stress that the club of councilors, the club of HDZ representatives in the Croatian Parliament, will support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50205	Thank you, too. Mr. Gordan Maras isn't here. Tell him he's coming when he's already writing in, I mean it. And Mr. Juro Martinovic, on behalf of the promoter, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here I have the need for a few sentences only because of a discussion which the distinguished representative of my colleague Milenić and my fellow lawyer have presented on this proposal, where he is essentially troublesome or advocated by a third reading which, against which I am principled, given that this initiative has come to an end and that otherwise he would consider it well-intentioned, this is how I really see it as some kind of political parliamentary trick that is legitimate and allowed. But I have a need to say something about doctors who, in this advocacy and the proposal as something more than the government and we in the ministry would like to protect my colleague Milenic. So, this initiative has been in procedures for a long time from various associations, doctors and it has its legitimacy and I would say one level of justification. But what's this about? Everyone in this country is therefore protected from attacks on integrity in any way by doctors. In this case, it is said that the privileged protection to place them in official persons whenever they do their jobs and when there is an attack of a patient on them, which would mean that this zone, this attack against them, it is not decriminal, it is as such criminalised but it does not have the mild privilege to treat this attack as an attack on an official person and that the state is then persecuting him, but in such a situation if it does not end with serious consequences, if the state were to prosecute again, then they would have to be used by a private suit tool in a procedural sense and that thing to do. But this ministry has a sensitivity to the medical profession, we've been taking this seriously but this initiative in this assembly of the ministry is I'd say came late, it's being considered but it has its own more dimensions. Accept this uncritically advocates doctors, and then the journalists will go and they will all be in that same, will become our entire Croatian official state and that is not the purpose of the legislation. So everyone protects themselves but as some other social good. The primary social well is the integrity of every person physically, morally, and every other, here, by means of this institute, some people are being subjected to the status of an official being protected primarily by their service, the functioning of the system. At the moment it's somewhere on the border, it's polemized, if it's done, it's only going to be done because of the fact that doctors want to give something more powerful protection that they advocate, but it's always a danger to open Pandora's box and that everyone's asking them to have this privileged status. But since the population is really sensitive, the structures of the people who do so are sensitive. Maybe this social moment is what I'm not usually inclined to change the laws for some of the social moments that it is today, these lines of waiting, so maybe patients are more nervous than usual and that's the only reason we're going. As far as the press is concerned, I believe that at this point there is no serious justification in professional terms, despite the fact that their profession will also get something from the support of that so-called so-called. The general public, but I don't think the professional public thinks that for the same reasons I talked about doctors that they should get official status in case they experience an attack at their workplace and their workplace is on the street in the Parliament, wherever they are. The third point he has imposed as a topic for discussion, this occasion by Milenic is the case of Mr Lucic, whom today this House has taken away, so immunity, allowed law enforcement authorities to do their job and I am against it as a lawyer to and as a sort of politician that in any way this parliament but also the executive authority that I am currently mixed with any position in the jurisdiction of the judicial authority that I wish to trust. It would be premature even any discussion since this is really the first stage, if that's true, I don't officially know that the judge has taken a stand, so the counter-representation of the state's attorney's office that he's persecuting, that's really the first truth. As a lawyer, I had cases that I had one attitude towards the Constitutional Court, so that attitude was legally changed only because two people took a different legal position, I believe there is no reason for us to in any way commit ourselves professionally in this regard, and especially not to push this law, amendments and additions of the Penal Code into some sort of 3rd reading and yes. Here, so that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50207	Yes, Secretary of State just to take advantage of the opportunity to sit here and ask you. So you told the journalist that you didn't see the reasons, and I don't see the reasons at that point, and the official has certain duties that would limit the rights of journalists then to some, to complete freedom, whether it's on their own, their professions. That's, that's the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50208	And it increased responsibility in some things at least that's not what this is about, but here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50209	I think that's the point, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50210	That is also the case with doctors, so they would get, they would get a mild privilege of being persecuted in some way but on the other hand they would impose obligations and each would respond as official persons who do not now respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50211	Okay. We have one replica, you can stay here, I think you can. Yes, here you go. [[I'm done. Yes, I did, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50212	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Secretary of State Mr. Martinović, I would just remind myself of the figure to say that about 540 doctors have left Croatia, that we lack 4,000 specialists' doctors, and it would really be good to at least make a contribution to the protection of doctors and these professions so that at least some of them can keep more or some of the young doctors focused on specialization so that Croatia really wouldn't have a big problem on the subject for a few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50213	Thank you very much for this contribution to the story. As far as I'm concerned, I think it's a primary political and economic issue, at least legally, but here we are in the sphere of law and we're talking about it. If it were some universal conclusion of the expert and general public, to stop us from draining our doctors, I'd be the first one not to raise my hand because I don't have it in the Parliament, but I'd suggest it goes away. But I think there are roots in another segment, but not in the legal segment. But we can think about it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50214	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On Wednesday at 9.30 we continue with what President Jandrokovic told you before with the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Have a nice weekend and I'll see you Wednesday. Session interrupted at 13.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50215	Let's move forward Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 106. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Ines Strenja-Linić. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. With us is Secretary of State Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50216	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, MPs. The government does not accept this amendment for the following reasons, so we believe that doctors in criminal law are protected in two ways, so they are first protected as all other persons are life and their body and are further protected qualitatively, so stressed as responsible persons. There are also amendments to these initiatives which are noble and good to be better quality through criminal law to protect doctors and even health care professionals. I'd say there's a long duration, the doctors were wandering their associations they suggested it was going to be protected as official persons so they gave up on their own. They were explained that doctors were further protected as responsible persons and it stands and this is now an attempt to enter a special standard where only doctors are protected and she would have said further so someone needed to be further protected which in our opinion was wrong and would have led to one confusion and would have violated one important principle of criminal law, which is the principle of clarity of the norm. On the other hand, and for legal technical reasons, this proposal has been put into one particular head where social values are protected, human health is completely wrong, given that in the proposal of this member of the law is actually a single mixture, protecting life and body, protecting an attempt to protect the service, but it is placed in the head where human health is protected exclusively. So these are the reasons why the government could not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50217	I'd like a colleague of Ines Strenju-Linić to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50218	I would like to meet once again the parliamentary representatives of what this is about, so we have asked to introduce a new article of coercion towards a healthcare professional, not only to doctors, but to any doctor of medicine, doctor of dental medicine or any other healthcare professional by force, threat, or any evil or attack that prevents or disables his activities from being punished by a prison of six months to five years. We ourselves are aware that violence against healthcare professionals is growing, that this law has not been able to protect him, that all attacks unless they are serious physical injuries end up having to sue privately, and in fact in our Penal Code we have only come to the situation that the doctor is possible to punish for unconscious treatment, but it is not possible to punish whoever makes it impossible to provide health care that is guaranteed to every citizen of our Constitution. And then imagine a colleague who was recently attacked in Sisak who was threatening to kill her, attacked by a wife's husband who was waiting for a hit while she had to read the emergency results of two multiple-injurious accidents. How she can then be concentrated and continue to do her job, and this man who has made it impossible for her to be punished except for that particular private lawsuit. I would ask that votes on this amendment be voted upon and I especially appeal to all doctors in the Croatian Parliament to consider this because this is how we must protect healthcare professionals so that they can consciously carry out their work, which is primarily by the Constitution guaranteed the right, protection and provision of health care to all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-22-0.u50219	I assume you're looking for a vote? Then we approach the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. [[Intruder Linic: Yes.]] The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I thank the Secretary of State. And we move on to a vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Please vote. I find that with 95 votes in favour and 1 abstention and 11 votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. Here, just a second, just a second. The first point today is the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, but before that we have a press release regarding my guess.
