ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u47407	Here's a colleague and a colleague. We'll keep working. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.30 HOURS]] I see one raised hand, a distinguished representative of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u47408	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break to discuss the difficult situation of the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u47409	Okay. ...can't do it right now. We always stick to the Rules of Procedure, so we'll see each other in ten minutes, so at 12.40. It's 12.31 o'clock. Here's a colleague and a colleague, now 12.40, so I'm going to ask the esteemed representative of Bunjc to say on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Representatives Club. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.40 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u47411	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to warn again about the difficult condition of the pensioners who have been led to have to protest in the streets of Croatian cities. Today, in Croatia, every third person over 65 is poor. Even 50% of pensioners have lower pensions than official poverty statistics, and 57% of pensioners have fewer incomes than the average pension of 2,269 kuna. The government's tax reform only raised high pensions while at the same time 100,000 pensioners have a pension of less than 500 kuna or are gone. These days, a 27% pension reduction is announced for pensioners who will receive a pension from the second pillar. The balance in pay and pension parity increases year by year, and the current average pension rate in average salary is only 37.7% while the European average is 65%. If we look only at the countries of the former Yugoslavia and even BiH has a 43% parity, Kosovo 47%, Serbia 50%, Montenegro 56, Slovenia 60 and Macedonia as much as 62%, we are the most convincing worst. At the same time, these same countries have significantly cheaper food prices than Croatia. Many pensioners cannot survive their pensions, so they try to make extra money, but the law does not allow them to do so. For this reason, they are forced to work on black, and most often they have to collect waste more and more, so we see them digging through garbage cans. It is a sad fact that the number of homeless people is increasing every day and that in the last few years their numbers have increased by more than 50%. There are no places in nursing homes, many pensioners do not have a peaceful dream because of the abuse of such lenders as the Agency for the collection of claims, they are tortured by executions and blockades mostly because of the HRT subscription, they do not have legal assistance in a different form of fraud. It sounds incredible, but in Croatia only 64% of people over the age of 65 are receiving a pension. Many people have no pension at all, while in Europe, the practice that this category of household is covered by 100% pensions is. This is possible because Croatia does not have a minimum pension as other countries or has a national pension for people who have not acquired that right. For example, in Croatia, there may be a case that someone has worked for 14 years, he has paid regular contributions, but he does not have the right to retire even on ten kunas, which means that all those funds he has made in the contributions of the countries have de facto usurped. Speaking of neighbours, I would say among other things that the Slovenian Parliament unanimously adopted amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act on 25 April 2017, under which pensioners with full age pension conditions will have a minimum pension of 500 euros. That's what happens next door. In order to improve the situation of pensioners, I announce that the Living Wall will refer to the procedure a law on guaranteed minimum pension and national pension as one of the pillars of the fight against poverty in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u47412	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the next club of MPs, I see a distinguished colleague appears.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u47414	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Bridge Club, under the theme of the border crossing from the BISH White Hill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u47415	Okay, then I'll see you again at 17.18. [[It's the 17th.08 hours.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.18 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, here's the break time, so I give my word to Honorary Representative Miri Bulj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u47417	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, Otherwise, here it is again the area of the Cetino area but it is very important that it is the border crossing of Billy's care with BiH. Unfortunately, for many years now, because of Schengen, we have been arguing with this border, the people who live in that area simply cannot reach their countries because that border has moved far beyond where they are the owners. But not only is this the problem now that our border crossing is low but now they're borderiers from BiH, their services have come and people are telling me from the field that they've plotted to operate a 900m border crossing in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the border crossing of BiH. Of course we have to take care of every stone, every rock we have, everything about the border because that country's blood has fallen. I'm going to inform the Minister of Police about this, and I've also met the former predecessors who were before and have this problem solved. Unfortunately, I am afraid that we are here inert and on the issue of Split-Dalmatia and Geodetic Administration, which probably did this sketch in Klis on lambine, so they misspelled the absolute border crossing so that the countries that own our people, from our territory, from this border, are simply not going to be able to come to that space except that former Minister Vlaho Orepic then gave the solution that 24 hours can be passed by the border crossing, but by then they could not and mainly people who deal with beekeeping and so, and theirs with this particle. From here I call on the interior minister to enter the field of the task force, to activate the geodetic administration that once again everyone who is in this process to limit BiH i.e. The border crossing, it is not within the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that we protect our borders as it belongs and that border crossings are known. I once again appeal to all institutions, from the city, county, state, geodetic administrations, the MUP to stop everyone from breaking into the Republic of Croatia because our border here is compromised, it's our territory, it's part of sovereignty, and this is about serious matters. There can be no border crossing, built on BiH territory, their border crossing, their station bordered on our territory. And they're doing it today and they intend to build it there. For this reason, once again, I call on the Minister of the Interior to urgently stop it, to start talks with BiH because people down in the Cetina region will protest and organise themselves as they have so far. I consider this a serious problem, this is not a problem between political, inter-party, this is all of us, we all need to protect the territory of the Republic of Croatia together and not allow any state in this case to BiH, that the border crossing to any concern be within the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Because of these people whose property is this land, and above all, which is our country that has defended itself for centuries and for that reason is still at the bottom, the most serious and most responsible person I call on to engage in this problem and to solve this problem to the satisfaction above all our citizens living down there, have their own properties, and primarily to protect sovereignty, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is the sovereignty of the Croatian state on every metre of land and sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u47418	Thank you very much. Now we go to the first point then: - Proposal for a Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, first reading, P.Z. Number 200. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52283	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So before us is the Proposal for a Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. We can say that this is essentially the continuation of the tax reform adopted and you start at the end of 2016. At that time, we were told that in order to fully harmonise the tax system and, among other things, to finance units of local self-government, a new Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government would be drawn up and proposed within six months, so he is before you, the proposal in the first reading. We think that we have drawn up quite a good law in cooperation with all relevant stakeholders to whom this law applies, so I believe that it will get support here in the assembly on the one hand, on the other hand we are equally certain that the debate will also result in its further improvement. So, ever since the first law was passed in 1993, it's been changed 13 times, so we have 13 amendments and additions to the applicable law. The adoption of a new law is part of, as I said, a comprehensive and comprehensive tax reform and this law intends in a simpler, more understandable and fairer way to define the income distribution system from income taxes, the fiscal balancing system of local and regional (regional) self-government units and the financing system of decentralised functions. It is also intended to define a system that will provide all units of local and regional self-government with the potential to provide a comparable level of public services, while under other legislation, regional development, demographic reconstruction and other specific objectives will be encouraged. The law primarily regulates the distribution of income from income tax, the fiscal balancing of units of local and regional self-government and the financing of decentralised functions. The distribution of income tax under the applicable provisions of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government is set out in four different categories. Thus, in a generously different way depending on the area in which the city or county is located, incomes from income tax are distributed differently. The basic distribution of income tax applies currently only to 207 units of local self-government of 556. Other 349 units of local self-government are subject to a special distribution of income tax of which 264 units have assisted area status, 35 units have mountain-mountan area status whose development index is between 75 and 125% of the RH average, and 50 units of local self-government are in the island area. None of those 349 units of local self-government to which the specific distribution of income tax applies shall be allocated to a fund to assist the balancing of decentralised functions. In addition to this, the counties of 299 units of local self-government belong to only 12% of the share in income tax. Of 20 counties, only Istria County and Primorje-Gorski County do not have local self-government units in their area with assisted area status but have local self-government units with mountain-mountan area status to which specific income tax allocations apply. This means that no county has a share in income tax of 16.5%, therefore, that rate that is prescribed as income or share in income tax for counties. This excludes the city of Zagreb, which achieves this share. Therefore, the provisions of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government are prescribed two original incomes to cover expenditures for decentralised functions and these revenues resulting from an additional share in income tax at 6% from the position of balancing aid for decentralised functions and that is 16%. The position of compensation aid is financed by the difference between the income generated from the additional share in income tax and so on. the balance sheet rights established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on minimum financial standards. The position of aid for balancing for decentralised functions until 2017 was planned in the state budget at the positions of the Ministry of Finance and since this year it was planned for the first time directly at the departments of resolution ministries, so the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health. In addition to income tax, one of the more significant sources of funding for a number of units of local and regional self-government are also aids that are achieved on the basis of the criteria laid down by the law on the implementation of the national budget for each financial year. A large number of aid types and aid criteria that are often changed to a sufficient extent do not address problems related to the mitigation of fiscal inequality of local and regional self-government units. Based on the provisions of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, the unit of local and regional self-government has become beneficiaries of the aid from the basis of the return on income tax, income from income tax from its territory, direct aid from the state budget other than those of the units which were beneficiaries of the State budget in 2014, additional aid, hence all 264 units of local self-government and 12 regional self-government which have the status of the assisted area and aid in the transitional period only for those units of local self-government which do not have the status of the assisted area. Therefore, a very complex and complex many difficult to understand system of assistance coming from the state budget that makes budget planning difficult and some stability and long-term planning of units of local and regional self-government. As a result, they can say that the objectives planned to achieve the adoption of this law are in a simpler, more understandable and fairer way to define the system of distribution of income income from income taxes, the system of fiscal balancing of units of local and regional self-government and the system of financing decentralised functions. The second is to define a system that will provide all units of local and regional and regional self-government with the potential to provide a comparable level of public services while, in the framework of other legislations, as I have already said, encourage regional development, demographic reconstruction and other objectives. Therefore, the key amendments adopted by this law are that income from income tax is entirely left to local and regional governments. Income from income tax, based on savings interest, there are also income units of local and regional self-government, and in 2016, this amounted to 368.8 million kuna. So this law corrected this anomaly in some way, because it was the only source of income tax, interest income tax, which was the sole income of the state budget. Now we also fully reroute it to local self-government units. It is not a negligible amount, so in 2016 it was almost 370 million kuna. The third is that 165 shares in income tax, which has so far been used to finance decentralised functions, through aid funds, amounting to around 1.6 billion kuna in 2016. It is also left to units of local and regional self-government, therefore, that there is income from units of local self-government, which does not mean that the Government will continue to define minimum financial standards for financing decentralised functions, therefore, school, health and other decentralised functions. But the difference between the minimum standard and the revenue achieved, the state will compensate directly from the state budget. Furthermore, aid is being abolished under the State Budget Implementation Act, which amounted to €694.8 million in 2017 and a new model of fiscal balancing financed from 17% of the share in income tax is being established. This law therefore aims to establish a simpler, more comprehensible and fairer system for the distribution of income income from income taxes, a model for fiscal balancing and a system for financing decentralised functions and the implementation of this law, all income from income tax is left to local and regional self-government units. The distribution of income from income tax has been simplified compared to the existing, since the bill proposes a single allocation for all units of local and regional self-government. Following the above, the distribution of income tax revenue on income was postponed as follows. So the share of the municipality, or the city, 60%, the share of the county 17%, the share of decentralised functions 6% and the share of fiscal balance 17%. Also on the basis of Article 45(3) of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, income from income tax as I have said, there is also interest on savings, income from the state budget, and in 2016 it amounted to 368 million kuna. This law leaves the income based on savings interest entirely to local and regional self-government units. The share for decentralised functions that units of local and regional self-government can assume is up to 6%, funds from shares for decentralised functions, which local and regional self-government units have not taken over, and have legal possibility, distributed in equal parts, to other decentralised functions. For example, 3 counties, Zagrebačka, Krapina Zagorska and Virovitičko podravska did not take over the decentralised functions of social care, therefore, homes for older and powerless persons, so the amount of funds in the area of 0.65 collected in the area of these counties, and intended to finance homes for older and powerless persons, will be distributed to those decentralised functions that these counties have assumed, which are, for example... social care, centres for social care and health care, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All reportedly will have a positive impact on the fiscal capacity of local and regional self-government units that have taken over decentralised functions. This law stipulates that out of the total income generated from income tax, 17% are allocated for fiscal balancing. The objective of fiscal balancing is to equate the fiscal capacity of units of local and regional self-government, with a view to enabling provision, comparable level of public services, for the purpose of achieving this, the existing system of aid based on the index of development, prescribed by the law on the implementation of the national budget for each year, shall cease to apply and pay off from the position of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the competent resolution ministries. The provisions of this law prescribe a new model of fiscal balancing in order to mitigate inequalities between the fiscal capacities of local and regional self-government units. The objective of fiscal balancing is not to direct capital investments and encourage regional development, but to take into account additional resources to encourage regional development and demographic recovery of local self-government units under other laws and regulations. For the purposes of calculating and dissipating fiscal balancing funds, 2 parameters are important. This is the capacity of the tax revenue achieved and the reference value of the capacity of the tax revenues achieved. The law specifically defines the capacity of the tax revenues achieved for cities and municipalities, and in particular for the counties. The law also specifically defines the reference value of the capacity of the tax revenues achieved for cities, municipalities and counties. Therefore, the capacity of the tax revenues achieved by the municipality, i.e. the city, is defined as a five-year average of income tax revenue achieved in the area of a particular municipality, i.e. the city and income achieved by the highest law of the percentage rate per capita of that unit. The capacity of the tax revenues achieved by the county is defined as a five-year average of income tax revenue achieved in the area of each county per capita. In doing so, the five-year income average of income tax is multiplied by a share of 0,17 which is the basis for the distribution of income income from income tax prescribed by this law. This stems from the fact that the counties generate income from income tax made by residents of municipalities and cities located in the area of counties. The reference value of the capacity of the tax revenue achieved for cities is determined as the five-year average of income tax revenue achieved in the area of all cities and revenues achieved by the highest statutory rate of cut per capita for cities in total. The reference value of the capacity of the revenue achieved, the tax revenue for municipalities is determined as the five-year average of income tax revenue generated in the area of all municipalities and revenues obtained from the highest statutory cut rate per capita per municipality. The reference value thus obtained is increased by 50% of its value in order to reduce, on the one hand, the extremely large difference between the reference value for municipalities and the reference value for cities, taking into account the law of the prescribed obligations of municipalities and cities and the public services provided on the one hand. However, the specificities of municipalities, or cities, were recognised through different benchmarks. The reference value of the capacity achieved by the tax revenues for the county is determined as a five-year average of income tax revenue generated in the prescribed share for the counties, per capita for all counties in total. From the calculation of the reference values and the capacity of the tax revenues achieved for cities and counties, the city of Zagreb has been excluded which, due to its size of fiscal capacity, would violate the real picture of the average value of the fiscal capacity of cities and counties, or because of its exclusion due to the size of the fiscal capacity, would cause an unreality of the calculation for those units in relation to all other units of local and regional self-government. The difference in the capacity of the tax revenues achieved by the municipality, the city and the county and the reference value of the capacity of the tax revenues achieved for the municipalities, for the city and for the county, multiplied by the total number of inhabitants of each unit makes the amount necessary for the fiscal adjustment to the full reference value for each municipality, city and county. The funds of fiscal balancing that will be distributed on a daily basis to the municipality, the city and the county depend on the total available resources collected from the share of fiscal balancing, hence those 17% and on the share of the necessary funds of the municipality, the city and the county in the total necessary fiscal balance in full for all units of local and regional self-government. The share of municipalities, cities and counties in full-scale fiscal balances for all municipalities, cities and counties as well as the capacity of tax revenue achieved and the reference value of the capacity of the tax revenues achieved shall be determined for each financial year. This allocation of income from income tax will reduce the inequality of the fiscal capacity of units of local and regional self-government, which will enable evenly ensuring income for the performance of their laws of regulated transactions. This is also indicated by Ginny's coefficient to be measured, which is the measure used to show fiscal inequality. In support of the real expectation of a reduction in fiscal inequality among units of local and regional self-government, the comparison of the results of the relationship between maximum and minimum amounts of income distributed from income tax and current assistance per capita on the basis of the existing system of financing and on the basis of the proposed system of financing especially at the level of municipalities, at city and county level. Therefore, the ratio of the maximum and minimum allocated income from income tax and current assistance per capita on the basis of the existing system of financing among municipalities is 28.8, among cities is 5.6 and among counties 3.6. According to the proposed financing system, the ratio between maximum and minimum income from income tax and fiscal balance per capita is 3.2, cities 2.4 and among counties 1.98. Since the ratio of the maximum and minimum income from income tax and fiscal balance per capita to the proposed system of financing between municipalities, cities and counties is lower than the same relation to the current distribution, the proposed system can be concluded that compared to the existing one, the proposed system reduces the differences in the available income tax income and fiscal balance between municipalities, cities and counties. The fiscal balancing model is therefore based on the calculation of the fiscal capacity of units, taking into account income from the income tax achieved in the unit area and income realised by the highest regulatory rate of deduction per unit resident. These revenues shall be monitored for the last 5 years for which the data are known. For the purposes of fiscal balancing in 2018, for example, data will be used for the period from 2012 to 2016. Depending on the deviation of the fiscal capacity of the unit from the determined reference value and the funds raised from 17% of the fiscal balancing shares will also depend on the amount of fiscal balancing funds belonging to the individual unit. In view of the specificities of a particular self-government, the law lays down three benchmarks which I have explained how they are calculated. The reference value for the municipality for 2018 is 1925 kuna, the reference value for cities is set at 2583 kuna and the reference value for counties is set at 319 kuna. The implementation of the fiscal balancing model is achieved as we have said the more uniform fiscal capacity of units of local and regional self-government. However, part of the units of local self-government will generate less income in 2018 compared to earlier years, mostly those units that achieved a larger share of income tax, i.e. those 88 and 70.5% of the basic, of these 60% and of the funds of assistance from the Ministry of Finance. And tax revenues per capita are higher than the average, i.e. the reference value for cities, i.e. municipalities, which means they already have strong fiscal capacity. Therefore, bearing in mind the provision of conditions for the real budget planning of units and the implementation of previously agreed commitments during the transitional period, which is defined in the transitional and final provisions are provided for compensation measures to those units for 2018 and 2019 to be planned in the State budget in the division of the Ministry of Finance. So to those units of local self-government, primarily cities and municipalities that this new distribution will generate a total of less revenue compared to what was the case before the law was applied. The state budget will provide funds to cover the difference, so none of them will end up with smaller revenues. Therefore, the total amount of State budget denied and in the bones of municipalities, cities and counties for 2018 was estimated at around 1.4 billion kuna. This is therefore assuming income from income tax in 2018. So in 2016, income was somewhere at 2 billion and 800. In 2017, it will be slightly lower in terms of tax reform and that population income is distributed in a way that taxable income amounts are above all reduced tax rates. However, we expect that in 2018 the total income from income tax will be at some level from 2016. And in such a situation, the total income of municipalities and cities compared to 2016 will be around 1.4 billion kuna more than in 2016. Therefore, we can rightly talk about fiscal, one step towards fiscal decentralisation, strengthening the fiscal capacity of municipalities, cities and counties, a more balanced and fairer distribution of income from income tax among units of local and regional self-government, increasing their own income, which will, of course, facilitate their position in the area of budget planning, borrowing, etc. So, by this procedure, this amendment of the law, we increase the denominator in the formula by calculating the possible mass of funds for wages, possible borrowing, etc. They therefore significantly improve the financial situation from that position. After all I've said, I dare say it's a good bill. It is certainly about the good intentions of the promoter, and we expect a constructive debate and we expect, of course, that through two readings in the final version, we will come to an even better version of the law than the proposal itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52284	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas, so let's take it in a row. The first is Honorable Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, you say the first reading, and let's hope that until the second reading it will respect all the objections that come from the field and that we will get a really good law on funding units of local and regional self-government. I am also pleased to hear from you at the outset, a number of the mayors, the mayors of the island who are not satisfied with this proposal, have reported that in the key changes relating to the income schedule of income tax as the main sources of income from local self-government units, the most impact is on our island municipalities and cities. In fact, 16% of the income tax they have received in the last 16 years, which could have been used purposely to improve roads, infrastructures and thus significantly increase the quality of life on islands. Given that, in all strategic documents, the Government is one of the priorities of increasing the quality of life on islands, retaining the island's population, I wonder why you went with such a proposal and whether you can in some way compensate for what is lost or given up on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52286	The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52287	I appreciate the question. So, as I have repeatedly explained the bill's proposal and said the aim of the law is to equate the fiscal capacity of cities and municipalities. Therefore, define the uniform distribution of income from income tax in order to better balance the fiscal capacity of all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. better equalise the quality and level of public service that cities and municipalities in the region of the Republic of Croatia can provide. The fact is that according to this proposal, the laws of the island municipality and cities remain without those 16% that have so far been entitled to use for capital projects. However, as I also said in the light of the law, the objective of this law is fiscal, strengthening fiscal capacities and equating them, and less capital support for projects, capital projects of individual cities and municipalities. However, the fact is also that not all the municipalities and cities in the island area have been abolished by this law. However, a significant number of units of local self-government, i.e. cities and municipalities on the islands of this bill will generate higher revenues compared to the current situation even with those 16% that they now have to finance capital projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52288	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52289	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, I'm going to read two of the claims that you made in this interpretation of the law. You are saying the objective of fiscal balancing is to equate the fiscal capacities of units of local and regional (regional) self-government with the aim of enabling the provision of comparable levels of public services. Second, this allocation of income from income tax will reduce to the equivalent of the fiscal capacity of local and regional (regional) self-government units. I can believe that's how it's gonna be for the area. And then when we talk about Slavonic counties, poor counties, poor municipalities, smaller municipalities with fewer inhabitants, this certainly won't be true. The county will receive 5% more income, but fewer municipalities will not receive those revenues. As much as it might be fair, given that we have 428 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, and you also said in your explanation that the aim of this balancing is not to direct capital investments and encourage regional development. That's what you fenced yourself with, but maybe it's fairer to tell those small municipalities to put the key in the lock so they can go home. With two million incomes, they won't be able to survive. You said this was a complex calculation of the assistance that has been given so far, but in point 5 of that complex budget, it was as follows: "The units of local and regional (regional) self-government from a status-supported area will be paid for additional aid in reverse to their development index." Here, a fellow Greek minister who had adopted such rules 100 municipalities in Slavonia then entered the supported area programme, they received more funding. 2018 will receive further assistance, 2019 50%, and then there will be big problems because the population is gone. You can count that math if you want, the population won't get more fiscal capacity. They're going to have to go individually... It grows, but the total walk of the municipalities will fall. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52290	Thank you. The answer to the guest secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52291	Thank you very much. So, it is precisely less developed municipalities and cities, precisely those with very low fiscal capacity today with a higher level of unemployment and lower income based on this system, will achieve much higher income, and this time direct way of direct income from income tax rather than aid as was the case so far. So right now, about 350 municipalities are going to get more funding than that now is the case which directly and 60% is through a balancing fund than these 17%. And I forgot only Mr. Jovanovic, I apologize, so these smaller island municipalities will receive compensation measures under this model from the state budget so that no city or municipality will end up with a total of less income than is the case today. And many, many municipalities and cities and counties will achieve a significant increase in their incomes, tax revenues, and I don't think there's anyone to worry about and there's no reason for dissatisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52292	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I think three things should be highlighted when it comes to this law. First of all, for the first time in one legislative proposal, the incomes of local self-government units are regulated, before that was in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and the Law on Islands, the Law on the Area of Specific State Care, so that's one thing. The second thing is for the first time the fiscal capacity is calculated by the population and we will practically lead to all units of local self-government regarding income tax having the same income because units have a second series of incomes. However, what I would like to point out here is that Article 6 has practically been taken over from the former provision of the Law on the implementation of the State budget as regards the return of taxes and all together. And what I want to say and in particular point out, and I think that should be said, and that is the provision of Article 9(4), which is that the government always brings minimum standards to primary and secondary education at the beginning of the year, and that is why it determines the assistance to local self-government units that receive smaller funds for primary and secondary education, which was previously from that decentralisation fund. However, here, a bit of this has been withdrawn under the wall and it is not stressed enough that in the following year, so in 2018, when this law enters into force, it will be ensured in the resolution ministries. And we will clearly see how much the Ministry of Education for achieving this minimum standard in secondary and primary education is provided with funding from the state budget when we add that in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Care other funds will be seen and what is very important, and I want to point out here, we all talked about firemen in Croatia this summer and we should also say here that this law will increase the funds for local self-government units. Look at fellow Demetlik, Article 9(4), and you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52294	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52295	Here's a colleague, you said at the beginning that this law was written in good faith, so here's what I hope is true, so I'm going to say some of my grudges in the best way. First of all, you said in the beginning that this law has been changed 13 times so far. I must say that it has definitely been changed times and that I hope that this 14th time really has lasted this law, but you said that you have contacted all relevant institutions in the Croatian state. I believe you've contacted the association of cities and the association of municipalities. I don't know exactly the data, I believe it is. But perhaps the best question is how much did you respect the comments of the association of cities and associations of municipalities? That's what a specific question would ask you. I still have a question. You were talking about compensatory measures. We know that with the new tax on the municipality's income and the cities got less income, they had less income. All right, in 2017, the state levelled that inequality between 2016 and 2017 with compensatory measures. You said that in 2018 compensation measures went further, but in 2019 compensation measures decreased by 50%. And what happens in 2020? If more units of local self-government don't have any compensation measures from the state? It can happen and I believe it will be so, that in 2020 some local self-government units will have less income than 2016. That's a specific question. And another question, why didn't you even the reference rate of municipalities and the reference rate of cities? Why aren't we in the same position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52296	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52297	So the whole model of fiscal balancing has just been taken over by the City Association, so that's the proposal that the cities' associations made in 2010 from the projects they had then ordered. During law-making, indeed numerous, numerous simulations, percentages etc. were made, and eventually came upon this as some kind of optimum which in the best possible way in our own and the opinion of experts involved achieves the purpose and purpose of the law. As for this transitional period in the bill as you said the first year 100%, the second year 50% we said it was a proposal, the debate will show what your thoughts are, what your proposals are, and we'll see what the final decision of the law or in the final version of it will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52298	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to talk more about this in an individual debate, but what I'm interested in at this point doesn't sound good when you go with this law that basically has good sides, but it lacks that other side of the medal, which is what's going to happen with regional policy. In principle, this law annuls regional policy, moving the index of development from increased income tax. So from now on, in the beginning of the unit on the PP, the assisted areas will have 28% less direct shares. Units on mountain mountain mountain mountain 20.5% of total income tax, and the islands of these 16%, which my colleague Jovanovic was just talking about. Who's going to get as much in the balancing system, we'll see about that. You said yourself the problem is with island units because they are basically something fiscally stronger than others, especially Slavonia, Gorski Kotar, Like, etc., etc. And they definitely come into a situation that a good part of those units, and there are 50 of them left without these 16%, so it has to replace some kind of regional policy. These funds went into capital investments, and now we're replacing it with non-intentional revenues. So these balancing revenues can be spent on both material costs and on new employment and on cars, and I don't know what, and there's no strict purpose for this to go to, say, projects in capital investment. I will tell you a little bit later that this proposal completely abolishs the Fund for co-financing of eu projects, which is also not good, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52300	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52301	So just the best examples of equalisation of fiscal capacity do not come from measuring the development of cities and municipalities, but from precisely fiscal capacity, and we are this law equating their fiscal capacity without taking care of development. You said the problem of the island, and I don't think I called it a problem, the fact is that island municipalities most often have significantly higher fiscal capacity than most other towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, but we have one fact that out of the total funds achieved by those 16% for capital projects in the area of cities and municipalities since 2003, around 45% use only four islands. So there's really an extraordinary concentration of these funds, this model is how we said what the law's goal is and it makes a much better fiscal balance than this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52302	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52303	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Following your presentation, the following should be said, from the draft units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, they draw their incomes from about a dozen laws and obligations under 38 laws. It was difficult to cope with all this, and the fact is also that units of local self-government did not participate in these obligations or at least to a lesser extent. This law, which is now proposed, should say that in a simpler and more understandable and fairer way, it defines the system of distribution of income and income tax, it is definitely true. Also in today’s debate, the replica of our colleagues was suggested that some of the municipalities, especially in the mountainous mountainous area, and in the islands, might not receive the funds they expected. But it's hard to have a magic wand and make a perfectly fair model that would satisfy everything and we're aware of it, I believe both of our fellow chiefs or those former and present sitting here that it's not possible to make that most just way so that we can all be satisfied. So I'm glad to say that with these key changes, most of the funding of decentralised functions is being taken over by the state, which is extremely important. Then income from income tax based interest I didn't hear you talking about, the savings are completely left to local self-government units, i.e. regional and regional self-government, which is very important. And the share of aid positions and co-financing projects from EU funds will not be set aside from income tax, which is important to us and will feel all municipalities and cities and counties in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we'd like that model to be even more perfect, but here's to another reading if there are some things that can change them, and I think there's going to be very few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52304	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52305	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. What you would like to point out is that in 2018 incomes will grow by 1.4 billion kuna, what we discussed on the Committee on Finance, or there was a concern of certain MPs that by cutting down the labour tax which is being charged that these incomes of the local self-government unit will be lower, and that in the six-month report, the actual income from income tax is greater than that planned due to favourable labour market developments and, of course, in the coming years, we all have to blow at the same core, and this law will motivate local self-government units to create more jobs in their municipalities and thus increase their own revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52306	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52307	Thank you. Dear Secretary. Well, I just want to add to your argument, which was a very good first fact. For the first time, the government fully releases income tax on local self-government. All governments so far have been trying to leave something within the space of 60 to 100, something to take away, something to book, etc. The second thing, from the 19 feet we now have through income tax and that law we go to 4 simple 60, 17, 17, 6. So it's a simpler reckoning. FINA will do it very simply on every salary. Third thing, when we're talking about islands, we've had 16% more so far. But they're not the only levels of assistance local self-government has been getting on the islands. We had two CEP4 EIB3 projects, we had EIB2. We had meaning loans to help local self-government. And now we expect that in the second part when this fiscal goes through, let's call it decentralisation to allow both project and functional decentralisation. So even now, the islands in the budget have over 120 million kunas of certain aid, on the capital aid of 20 million kunas. This bill says that by the year 2018, we will have 100 million kuna to make up for these 16% we will now be able to lose in the first year, i.e. Get away from that part that's right. So that's how I feel we won't be cut off. And let's not go a little bit, I think somehow, we're talking maybe a little bit and wrong, we haven't read everything well, and we have the right to say that given some level that has been achieved now, we're counting on the help of the state but through some other projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52308	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This bill of law is vital and vital to the functioning of all local self-government. Therefore, State Secretary and Mrs. Jakir, for every commendation, is today the first reading of this bill where the work and coordination of not only the Ministry of Finance is finally seen, but also especially the Ministry of Regional Development. We'll all never be able to be satisfied. So I believe that both for islands or for some of the municipalities that have been calculated in a new way in fiscal terms remain to say shorter for the revenue side or help the state find a way we have already heard that they are being helped through the balancing fund. Knowing the capacities of many cities and municipalities, this bill goes hand in hand to many but this time more just. It should be said that all of us who come from cities and municipalities that are not fiscally strong should feel more strongly this law which allows us to plan the budget more optimisticly. In particular, this bill of law is the first reading as we hear it, but I believe that both in my Cetina region and in many mountainous areas and other cities and municipalities will have a concrete turn in central state policy towards local politics. Here we have heard 1.4 billion kuna by direct discharge or help towards local self-government is the path to survival and survival, both cities and municipalities and people. Because these new funds open up opportunities that we haven't had so far to improve living conditions and new projects. So we are left with the possibility that we can make proposals on this bill and on second reading but generally when we see the numbers finally I believe that we will all be satisfied together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52310	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We have all the representatives' clubs reported, and we still have 14 individual debates, so it's going to be very exhaustive. So first, on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, we will hear the esteemed representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is no wonder that all clubs have applied for a debate on the financing of local self-government because it is a topic that always brings great attention to the Croatian Parliament. I must say here today by opening this debate that the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB club will, of course, support the bill because we believe that this is finally one law that goes towards creating conditions for some normal life for Croatian citizens. We need to decide on this part whether our goal is to meet the minimum needs of citizens in places and places where they live, or whether our goal is local self-government as some kind of territorial structure. If we look at this bill in the sense that our aim is citizens, then it is absolutely on track to achieve some basic human rights in all parts of Croatia, one of the minimum standards they need. If we look only at the aspect of the preservation of local self - administrations as they are then surely there may be some small problems and some local self - administrations will have some things happening during the time ahead. I want to point out here very clearly at the outset that there should certainly be somewhere to define whether to regulate, define or sort of follow it by law. But in any case, monitoring the effects and effects of this law on local self-government. Because if, at some point in time, of some 2 cycles, that cycle is going to be 3 or 5 years in local self-government, which, under this law, will achieve significantly higher income than they have now, no shift will occur, no development will occur, no standard increases. Then we have to ask a question, a general sense of such local self-government. Today, we need to talk very clearly and openly about it, or maybe attach that local self-government to a more successful local self-government, in this way or simply solve it in some other way, but I don't really see it. In any case, I have passed Croatia, along and across, all parts, always talked to local self-government leaders, the problems they face. I've had a chance to run a local self-government for many years, and I have to say, maybe since '93. As the first elections were held in the current territorial structure, this is, in my opinion, the first law that offers some solutions to a more even thinking towards all Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens decide where they will live. They choose the place of their lives and it is not normal, that today in a small Croatia we have a terrible disproportionate. You have a unit of local self-government, where citizens can meet all their needs, where they have the ability to budget abnormally large. On the other hand, you have a local self-government unit, where you can't satisfy the minimal need of citizens either. With this bill of law, I'm so experiencing it and our club, it's just going that way to make some alignment to the minimum. I don't see this law as a law where someone loses something. In my opinion, this law gets and settles. Those who have more, who will succeed from other sources, will not take it from them. Some, now with some legal proposals, may have received significantly greater resources than others. I'm sure they did. No, maybe not, I'm sure they are. I've been doing a little analysis in the Koprivnica-Crysing County area, trying to do a little simulation. So, all units of local self-government in Koprivnica Krstavečka County, and I dare say that this could also be applied to Bjelovarska bilogorska and to the eastern part of Zagreb County, it is all very similar, all units of local self-government, according to our calculations, receive an increase in income. Everything. Even cities, the town of Kržievce, the town of Križevci about 12 million kuna, are given an increase in income by simulation. 12 million kuna, huge money, St. Peter Orehovec municipality, a large 5,000 inhabitants, St. John Frog, about 2.5 million kuna plus. I'm talking about municipalities where you have income per capita budget somewhere in the municipality of St. Peter Orehovec maybe some 500 kn per year. Imagine some other units of local self-government, which have 3,000 kn and more. They can't afford anything. They can't even start building a hall, they can't co-finance some European projects, they can't do anything, this law, by applying this law, put themselves in a position to open up opportunities for them to do all this. And to Žubno build a kindergarten and to build St. Peter's municipality a sports hall and many other municipalities. I'm only talking about those who are, therefore, who are not wanted in detail to enter someone else's area. Countys somewhere around 300 million more, cities about 800 million more, municipalities seem to me about 300 million as well should have more increases. They're numbers that tell everything. The redistribution will be a little different. But it'll be fairer. For the first time, fairer. There were speeches on the board today, and there's a Mr. Board President sitting there, around this part, to predict for the cities a slightly higher amount, so to speak, of this budget than for the municipalities. I told the board what I'm gonna do now. Cities have bigger social upgrades. They cost more and practically that social upgrade they use always and belonging gravitating municipalities. Because they're all tied to certain centers. Whether they're the center of the county or not. And it's logical that this social upgrade is seen that way and that it has a slightly higher amount per capita. But on the other hand, many of these cities have not been able to use funds throughout all these years, which were used by certain municipalities and smaller cities. Let's remember from the Regional Development Programme. The cities of over 10,000 inhabitants couldn't apply at all to any program, to any road, to any waterway, to anything. Less municipalities, less local self-government used it. Today, you have situations that small municipalities, which were skilled, which had good leadership, have managed to modernise themselves to pave all roads. They have built water lines. At the same time, you have a situation in cities, which have a large number of villages in their ring, that these villages today have no asphalt, that these villages have no plumbing, that they have no fixed elemental things. This law is exactly how things work out. Now that we look a little bit more closely at this law, there are some inconsistencies and indifferences in Article 5. In the light of Article 5, it also states that the fire departments of the local self-government unit that have public fire departments will, of course, receive decentralised funds, which is excellent for those decentralised funds and balancing funds to be filled in from other sources of the state budget. We have a situation there to suggest that funds for decentralised functions should be directed towards units of local self-government. Unless they have this decentralised function set up evenly for other decentralised functions they have. Article 5 clarifies exactly the example of public fire departments, and I think we should look a little deeper at the problem and define it a little better. So, if we were to direct decentralised funds towards cities that don't have a public fire unit in a way that spends evenly on other decentralised functions again, we would make some differences and one disproportionate. But we understand the fact that everyone has fire communities, that everyone has a set fire system if they don't have a JVP to have a community of fire and that they actually have a fire-fighting solution. So these assets should actually be directed specifically in this case in this direction. If someone doesn't have a JVP, we can channel funds to the community of fire for the same purpose. Here I am asking the promoter to keep that in mind, and on the other hand I see no argument that these funds would be directed towards the county if some unit of local self-government did not have a JVP. That's what it says in the explanation. I really don't see any sense in doing that. This is directed towards local self-government or there is another option for the municipalities alternatively, for municipalities that do not have a public fire station, and in their vicinity there is a public fire department in some area, to leave them with the possibility that this part of the funds that they have for that function can be associated with local self-government that has JVP and thus provide fire protection for the entire area. I think it's something that can be solved without any problems, too, and a little bit more. By my judgment and by the court of the club, I think these amendments to the law, i.e. This new Law on the financing of local self-government still has that one demographic story. In my opinion, there won't be any more arguments for any local self-government that he can't get, say, free textbooks. Anyway, I asked them exactly what the situation was. All 20 cities have some to say is income cuts, so everyone else has an increase. In the municipalities especially in this continental part of the situation, islands are something else. And it's good that the law provides for a settlement for 2018 and that 50% for 2019. During that time, all of this will slowly be stabilised, agreed, the law will work and, as such, will surely make some progress, certain dissatisfaction and local leaders who will be able to plan their budgets in advance, do projections in advance and know and in principle plan long-term at this time when a large number and EU projects are being prepared. Absolutely a very important detail because people have to do all their calculations in advance and know exactly what they're going to come up with. This law, these amendments to the laws applicable for this transitional year, was the same good thing that in 2017 it was designated as a transitional year which is seen to follow the effects. And I really have to say that in the conversation and with the leaders of local self-government and with the professional services they do there, that no one had a grudge against it. In fact, we welcomed the model of functioning where the ministry practically transferred the difference between the alignment that was and that there was never a stomach cramp until the 15th of the month. There's going to be daily tracking, daily switching, which is even more and better anyway. And because of all this absolute support for this bill with these things that I mentioned that a little more see how to put it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52312	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas again. He's the first to be honored representative of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52313	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg, of course I have no doubt that you are an extremely competent person to discuss these topics. But let me continue to fear, I will literally say I fear that the municipalities in the area and my county and all of Slavonia and Baranja. Because you said that you should examine the effects of this effect of this funding changes in the financing of units of local self-government of this law. And probably when you said it would increase, when you're there for your county you probably meant 2018. But it'll be 2018, it'll be 2019. In 2019, the transitional provisions state that units of local and regional self-government will be paid out of the state budget for 50% of the aid paid out by the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article. You're gone in 2020. And what did that help do? These are the aids that were mentioned in that and in this explanation of this law, which have also been made since the return of income tax, income from income tax from its area and additional aid received by 264 units of local self-government that have the status of the assisted area. That's where my community was, for example. Look out, these are the revenues of 2 million kunas. Income income is 300 thousand kuna. So that 100% increase they will never come, reaching the 2 million kuna aid that the municipality has now received. I agree, maybe someone should have said so we should have closed that municipality and then it should have been said openly, not in 2020, that people were asking and what we're going to do now. That's my concern and I didn't, I didn't even get an answer from the secretary of state. If you can comment on that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52314	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52315	Dear colleague, fear is a great emotion, and it's always good to have. But what's important and what I've been talking about by discussing this bill is that so far this is the most honest proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government with very clear indicators. It is certain that there will be some problems, in the middle, in the units of local self-government that have received great help. I ask a question or a conflicting question, what have these units of local self-government done with these aids in that period behind them. Did they raise the standard, did they boost the economy, did the number of employees increase, what was happening? And here when you're talking about 2018 and 2019, and that's what I said, and in the debate, I'm taking it back again. And that's why I emphasized it. We need to monitor the effects of what's going to happen. We need to be targeted by a man, not some community or some city, as an institution. No, man. Find a way that every man can meet his own minimum living needs, budget to say so in the middle of where he wants to live. And believe me, it'll make no difference to him whether a municipality or a city is called one way or another, whether it belongs to it or to this, it's important to him that he has solved that part of his standard of living that the state has to give him through funding or the Law on the financing of local self-government. And that's why we need to monitor and control the effects that are going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52316	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52317	You said in your statement that you would see the meaning of the existence of a unit of local self-government if the result is not shown at the end of such a law. On the contrary, I think it's this law, and that's why I'm going to support it in a series of laws that should continue on it and lead to the ultimate goal of decentralisation. The greatest wealth of this law is in simplifying the system. If we know there were 19 feet to cut it into before, it's four feet now. Then that part of which we all talk about justice and solidarity and for the first time goes to units of local self-government or units of regional self-government that I have a special opinion about and I don't know what their purpose is but not to talk about it. You said the Crosses would get about 12 million kunas more. As far as I'm concerned, they're going to get about nine million kunas more. The mayor's 20 million kuna. My city won't get anything because we have, we're crossing that reference value as probably Rovinj or other cities. But I am happy or satisfied if the Municipality of Vinodolska will get 2, 3 million kuna more, if the Gorski kotar and municipalities and towns in Gorski Kotar will receive those funds so that they can obtain development. What we all forget and all the time falls on the burden of local self-government units and we never mention that all cities and municipalities in the entire Republic of Croatia are in the beginning smaller by 25%. 25% of every city and municipality investment is paid. 25% on paper spent in the city administration, 25% on plumbing, sewers and roads if financed by local self-government units, not public society. And these are the questions that we need to raise and this is how I see it just one little wheel in this big business that needs to be done and it's called decentralisation and I'm looking at what this State Property Act is going to bring us. And I'm really waiting for him to finally see him in full form to read what he says about him, so we can discuss him. I think the key to the development of the Republic of Croatia are cities and municipalities as high as the state instance is, life goes down with us, and in that sense, if the funds are directed this way to citizens and to citizens through their units of local self-government we can talk about some kind of development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52318	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52319	We understand each other very well. I wish my Crosses didn't get any lip from the Equivalence Fund. It's probably what every mayor and every mayor of the community would like. That would mean we have a good standard, that we're developed, that things are going well. And that's why it's supposed to be watching this law. So what I'm saying is, no one gets taken here but for the first time something is evenly and evenly arranged. Of course those who have a high standard and therefore meet the needs of their citizens who have a large income per branch budget that they will not receive aid from the state budget because it is part of solidarity, it is a normal thing. And that's why I said we should follow what's going to happen and the goal must be to raise the standard of citizens from year to year and this law is just like you said the foundation, a small wheel. And it's not okay, I agree absolutely, it's not right that in some other laws local self-government is definitely looking at the state as if they're not the same body and they are the same body. These are the hands and feet of the state, eyes, ears, all at the very least. And there's really that part in front of us. But as you said yourself, I absolutely support it, let this be the first rock to create another climate towards local self-government and one better relationship to local self-government because really that's where people live, that's where life happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52320	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52321	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Hrg, we know the problem well, and that's why I'm going to go with the things that I think you spoke well here in your presentation. First of all, you said that public fire departments that get 320 million kuna from the state, you probably know that, I don't know if everyone knows, 320 million kunas, but only public fire departments. You agree when you put the motion there to the secretary of state, and that is my suggestion, in any case I will support it, that the money of 320 million kuna be distributed to those municipalities and cities that have a community of fire, because first of all, it is not fair for the state to be a mother to someone and a stepmother. That cities, which are mostly richer, are financed by public fire departments and municipalities that are poorer mostly, do not receive a single kuna for firefighting. And here I agree with you, please, if possible, Secretary of State on Mr. Hrg's proposal, which we will also support to consider this particular item and to give it to everyone equally. Now what I disagree with. You said whether our goal is citizens or our goal is to form. We're not talking about the structure right now, it's not about the structure, whether we're going to have 550 units of local self-government or less, I think it's good to have more because then it's going towards decentralisation, but the thing is that we're going towards the citizens. But I'm telling you, the most important thing and I'm running out of time, which I have to point out here, it's not fair to look at the reference rate just income tax. Why? Because many cities have a small income tax and will therefore be in the lower class and have extremely large other incomes and there will be an unfair distribution of these state funds that go to balance. I'm sure of it because I've done the calculations, and in my presentation, I'm going to document it specifically. This is going to be extremely unfair.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52322	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52323	Well, in part, I agree in part not exactly, which is normal for everyone to sort of read and experience, has some experience from everyday life in the end. When I said about the fire department, I was offered this explanation in Article 5 where it says that the funds where there is no JVP will practically be transferred to the counties, it doesn't make sense to me. On the other hand, public fire departments are now performing services in local self-government around cities where they exist. What do you mean? Of course, here's the situation, so 4 gravitating municipalities towards the town of Križevci, the public fire department is going to intervene in each of these municipalities because in the end it is financed from the state budget. ... No, no, we do that, but why don't these local self-governments, these municipalities have these resources, they have the right to them because there are these people, and now whether they want to make arrangements and make an agreement with a local self-government unit that has a public fire department, so that's how to strengthen and equip a better public fire department, or whether they want to equip their own fire department and an operation that's going to be there, that's now a matter of local self-government, there's the means that are meant for it and shouldn't be taken from anyone. [[You can't hear it.]] I don't think it would be good if we just re-distributed these 320 million, I think we need to step it up a little because then a lot of the victims who have it now would still have no effect. And as for this other piece, so I don't think so, I'm still saying, I'm experiencing this law as something that's really good, I've had the opportunity to be at a few and presentations and in the preparation of this law and in my court, with certain things, no one can be quite 100% satisfied, there will be those who will be a little bit more unsatisfactorier maybe, but a lot more will be satisfied and absolutely this law is, I repeat, directed towards man. And such laws should be all of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52324	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, you have debated here today not as a representative of the National House but as a representative of the County House that is no more, but not just you, most of us here today who have debated are actually very selfish in this debate, in these topics that we have started here today. You said literally that this law goes towards most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia being more equal by this law. On the contrary, this legal proposal legalises and calculates that residents of municipalities are less valuable than residents of cities. Your argument that cities offer larger, more abundant services than the municipalities offer is because today in Croatia there are a large number of municipalities that are not only with their critical mass, so not only with the number of inhabitants, but also with the services they provide are much stronger and are significantly larger than many cities. In addition, you said that it was actually the sin of municipalities, small municipalities or medium municipalities, which competed for European funds that were successful in this. It is not their sin, on the contrary. So this law might be, probably, transparent, probably simpler, probably more understandable, but it certainly isn't fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52326	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52327	Comrade Mateo, we didn't listen well. I must confess. First of all, quite the opposite of what you said, I discussed this law just as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, not as a local leader. I just took a few units of local self-government to make an example of what I'm saying. And when I speak, I repeat again, that for my purpose is a man and not a local structure, then I generally talk about all people in the Republic of Croatia regardless of what municipality, city or county they live in. And that's the point of things. It's a normal thing that the Law on the financing of local self-government will also cause local debates, that everyone in their own backyard will thus set an example which is perfectly normal and fine. As for the relations of municipalities and cities, it is not good to insinuate the conflict of municipalities and cities. It's not good. I've always said that the city is different from the municipality by social upgrade. That she's costing. And the fact is, and nobody can tell me that it's not like that, that the residents of certain municipalities that they're gravitating in a city are using many of the services that this city provides, which is perfectly normal. And it is certain that this cost of the city is much greater than the cost of the municipalities. That's a fact. And I can easily argue and prove it. And if we want to look real, we can all. If we want to politicise a little bit, then we can do it this way, but in any case, everyone goes up, it's all being satisfied in the extreme case, it's this positive effect, a positive effect, in the end of the day, and representatives of the municipalities and representatives of the cities and the presidents of the county have been involved in the drafting of this bill all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52328	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Brnak Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Branko is pleased to meet you on that behalf. You said well, so this is a step forward in the sense that units of local self-government will get more money. But it's only thanks to economic growth, a better situation in the budget, where a billion or slightly less kuna circus can be further singled out for local self-government units. It's a catch. So we now have more money and we direct some of that money to local self-government units. However, the distribution is not good and I agree with colleagues who have now said so. Because watch out, if I, the 10 chiefs, the island municipalities have appeared in the last seven days and says we are losing funds for capital investment, which is now completely unquestionable, because they are in fiscal capacity stronger than this threshold that will be. So they lose the circus 46 million kuna a year. Who have accumulated on Hvor's account and have served so far, so when enough money is collected and the projects are being prepared, these projects are being implemented. Now it won't be possible that way anymore. And that money, it went to a common class that was redeployed to those with a weaker fiscal capacity, which I have already said, is already in Slavonia, northern Croatia, Lica, part of the Gorski Kotar, therefore, part of the Dalmatian Burn, so, least developed areas. You understand, but someone still has to pay for it. But it's clouded by this one larger amount where everyone might get a little bit more than they've ever had before. There's a catch. But you're losing regional policy. A colleague drew out 700 million kunas to support units of local self-government that are no longer available. Here, I'm sure they'll confirm that because that's what the bill says.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52330	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52331	Thank you very much. Yeah, this name is pretty interesting to me, too. So regional development, regional structure, regional differences, is it better to look at it in a way, to be more satisfied, less dissatisfied or vice versa? The island municipalities, yes, they called me the same, and I just had a conversation with the Mayor of Murter Municipality just before this debate. They also analyze things how they're going to happen. But, realistically, you were the Minister of Regional Development. Minister of Regional Development. So you yourself are aware that there is an open set of opportunities for capital investment and that islands there have a certain advantage in the extreme case. So the source will already be able to meet some of its needs. This section to be monitored in 2018 by balancing by 50% in 2019 is also one indicator of the good intentions of the promoter in the extreme case. To really monitor the situation, as was followed this year, when this system began to change. It must never happen again, that a single minister does not go to you arbitraryly, by his decision, without regulations, without criteria, without any distribution of 400 million kunas per party coat, as your colleague Hajdas Doncic did. He hit directly on local self-government, according to his intent and damaged many units of local self-government, when he distributed such money. So it can't happen, it has to be clear rules, this law sets it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52332	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52333	Dear colleague, together we were the leaders of the local community and I would ask myself to you, and to all of us and the people of the ministry, actually one rhetorical question. Is this bill really a step forward or maybe this bill is pushing us into an average. Why am I asking such a question? We don't talk too much, that our fundamental goal as small states should be to strengthen local communities. Because if local communities are competitive, it's good for the state. We talk too little about whether we are offering legal solutions to a model where we are all going to run much faster together, which we need in relation to global competitiveness, and are we really making assumptions for excellence? The effects and effects of course we will be able to discuss in particular in a few years. As far as mediocrity is concerned, I would never use the term solidarity because it is not uniform, and solidarity is solved by different modes and different tools. It is very interesting when someone in the opposition is then very loudly attacks the bill's proposals concerning the financing of local self-government units when units of local self-government are headed, then they are even stronger and stronger. However, the fundamental postulate in politics should, independently, be in a position or opposition should be consistency and credibility. Let's talk a little bit about whether this law really means step forward or push us into an average.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52334	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52335	Comrade Sponza doesn't, this law doesn't put us on average. This law allows citizens of the Republic of Croatia in places they have chosen to place their lives to meet the minimum needs of the budget. When we talk about those who step faster go forward absolutely alone for it. The competition within the local self-government in Croatia has no competition, it cannot be because we live to say hundreds of thousands of kilometers from each other, and in one day you tour the entire country by car. But that's the situation. Now I'm going to make a prerequisite for how much we settle that starting part, and I think it would be good to use the mountaineer system here. So it's not said that the group arrived at the finish line when it arrived first, but when the last one arrived then we measured the time. The units of local self-government that are powerful, powerful will continue to move forward. Rovinj will continue to move forward, he is strong. I am convinced that here are my Križevci with this help will also go faster forward, that they will finally pave their villages that are free of asphalt. 10,000 people live in villages around the Cross, no asphalt, no water. It didn't work out, it didn't come from anywhere. This law will be able to do that. There's a lot of people like that. But what's important is that I'm in opposition and I would talk about this law the same way, because I've been talking about it for 10 years continuously that it should be that way and that, in the end of the day, if I were the head of local self-government, I'd still talk about it the same way again, I'd talk about it the same way again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52336	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Tulio Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Branko, we discussed today on the board, so we said we were on the same side. The fact is that this law will be simpler and perhaps, in a more just way, define the distribution system. But in the long run, it doesn't solve the problem of funding local self-government. You said that the Križevci would get about 12 million, so you had information that the ministry unfortunately didn't show which cities were below the reference value or above the reference value, so that you could calculate who was losing, who was getting who. You said no one would lose, but the Ministry told us someone would lose, and someone would win. You said we won't take anyone, but this balance of financial capacity is about changing the law exactly in that part of the assisted areas of mountain and island. So, the Istrian County as well as the Primorje-Gorski County as mentioned as the county where the minimum aid came from the state budget so far will mean taking someone who has so far been helped. Now, whether these aids were just or not, or in that way, more justly shared is another question. I'm interested in how you calculated that you'd get $12 million. And another question I wanted to say about simplification. The state says it's denying that it's helping us, and I wouldn't exactly think about this part, because income tax and tax taxes are the original incomes of the local self-government unit. I think with this bill of law, they're just having second thoughts. The mass remained, in fact the mass of income tax revenue is smaller, I would disagree with the Greek, and the base normal for the calculation remained the same. So cities and municipalities still have 60% left. So how do you interpret where it's going to increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52338	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52339	I will be happy and satisfied when 30% of all tax revenues in the Republic of Croatia will be allocated to local self-government. Probably you, too. That should be our goal, our desire to get to it. Then we could say we did the job. This is one small step towards it, but let it be made first. How did we get this information from $12 million? We've calculated. We took the bill, we took the data from the city's budget, I asked economists who are doing this to put it in some plates, and they calculated that amount for me. ... Income tax. [[You can't hear it.]] What? ... They will not take anyone, but some who have now won may no longer win, and some who have not so far won they will win. [[You can't hear it.]] So there will be one fairer, more even and fairer redistribution of those funds. That's how I see it, for me it's like that. But you've got the other part, which means you're helping the balance that's going, so directly from the state budget and inside one part of it, too. But we agree and we're on the same side, we advocate the same. I believe that you too are thinking about this part that, not to believe, but I know that it must go further towards local self-government, that local self-government needs to be strengthened, that the European Charter of Local Self-Government must be respected, that we should reach that standard of citizens who have developed European countries. We hope that's the way it'll be in the future. But in any case, I repeat. I repeat, this is a good first step towards this real fiscal decentralisation and a fairer distribution of tax money towards man and not so much towards some structure and certain skills of a particular leader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52340	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52341	Thank you very much, Vice President. You mentioned cities of over 10,000 inhabitants that they cannot apply to European funds for the construction of social homes, kindergartens and the like. Not only cities but municipalities and cities below 10,000 inhabitants and over 5,000 cannot apply to these funds. At a time when we all swear very strongly on children, demography and when there are cities like the town of Vodice that has sweet concerns and the need to build a new kindergarten, we really cannot apply to EU funds. Then I wonder how and from what means we'll be able to build a kindergarten. The communal contribution is strictly dedicated revenue, despite the fact that these solid assets in our municipal contribution budget can be built unclassified roads, squares, streets, public lighting, cemetery and the like, do not spin again. And this is exactly the kind of distribution that could contribute to us in a lot that, over a period of two years from these revenues that will now be allocated to our city, which is for a rich city, can bring me a building of one such facility. I'm surprised that when we talk about any topic, people talk a lot about units of local self-government that are less financial capacity, we all swear on inequality and the need to unify cities and municipalities as much as possible and then today or not there, they probably don't have to praise this law or have nothing to say or they don't care. But I do believe that this can really contribute to the development of those units of local self-government of a weaker financial capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52342	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52343	Well, yeah, you're on the same page in the end. The other day I spoke with the head of a neighboring municipality in St. John’s Landing about how to build a kindergarten. And when I told him that according to this new law, the municipalities should be incometing about 2.5 million kuna more assets on the annual level, the man said, says OK, so we can get into this business and then we can handle it ourselves and maybe with some means they can move somewhere and we can do the job. Same thing with roads, infrastructure, everything else. Therefore, it is easy to criticise this law must and can, there should be some further improvements in it. I'm sure it'll take him and follow him for a year, two days, what results he'll give, repair him at the very end of the day. But what you noticed, and that's one first step, a good step towards this more normal development, according to more normal planning, all those who are the leaders of local self-government and who were the leaders of local self-government are hardly able to speak against this law honestly. I can hardly speak frankly against this law. You know it's the hardest thing to plan and realize as planned. And this law makes it possible, and that's why I don't think they're going to experience any major criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52344	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next club representative. I just have to draw attention to that given the number of replicas, if this continues, then we'll only need this law between six and seven hours and then we have five more laws. But of course we're here to discuss everything and everything. So the next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52345	Thank you very much, Vice President, representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Well, this law is really life, and it's experienced what we mention a lot of changes. We who have worked in local units have known since '93. How many times did he change? Well, here it is, so I think not 13 but even 18 times. But I also have to say that once the Finance Act united what it is now actually doing and the Law on Local Taxes, and then it was in one package where it defined all relations and conditions and here's the Law on Finance and the Law on Income Tax is always interesting because it reflects directly on our lives in local units. So we're going to support this law anyway and try to make it better. Since 2001, when a fiscal balancing system was established, it was very difficult to establish criteria and instruments that had been aided from the budget and the sharing of these revenues, given that there were specific areas of special state care here and then, so were classified and mountain-mounted areas, thus redistributing financial resources were done. However, after 2010, what you mentioned was the development index was also going towards a more even development. However, this development index did not actually bring this improvement really because the development index was measured mainly by regional self-government and together. Thus, certain municipalities in the form of regional self-government could not achieve certain improvements or obtain any additional funding. In this law compared to the predecessor that we had already mentioned it had a terrible lot, a lot of rates which then individual units of local self-government found themselves in that forest of those rates, whether they took over decentralised functions, whether they were, whether the islands or the like, and I think that this makes it much clearer to everyone how these funds are going to be shared. And what is important to mention is that this whole income tax in general belongs to all units of local self-government. What decentralised funds were previously derived from this 16%, the missing portion will be compensated from other sources of revenue that the state budget has and will thus respect the overall rights of the balance sheet rights prescribed by the award. It is also important to say in this law that the calculation and distribution of strands of fiscal capacity is defined, i.e. two parameters used here and that capacity of tax revenue achieved and the reference value of the capacity of the tax revenues achieved. And what you mentioned was that amount for municipalities, cities and counties. Here at my town, we're not going to make any more significant resources than our current income tax income, it's going to be very symbolic. The County will get more in this case, but I don't see it that way, we're all selfish with regard to our municipalities, cities or counties and everyone would like to have more than others, but really here as much as we don't want to accept that this is in a certain way solidarity, but it is ultimately because this law stimulates really the number of residents. If the population is larger, then our rights are so much higher, so we indirectly stimulate that in our municipalities and cities there are as many people as possible to achieve the greatest rights, and then the number of people with exactly the amount that the reference amount contributes to the greater revenue achieved. This must make us more happy because it encourages the other component, and that is the demographic component. Here on these average, five-year averages were taken, which is very important that no shorter time series was taken and then, on that average, income was taken from income tax with the maximum amount, especially in municipalities and the city, with the maximum amount of the prescribed rate cut per capita, and for municipalities it was 1925 kuna, and for cities 2583 kuna. It was interesting for me, given that you know for yourself that some cities and municipalities did not prescribe taxes or that they are smaller, in this way they have indeed been achieved to make this benchmark more fair in one way, but we must make sure that every city and every municipality contribute as much to their own budgets as possible. The county itself is at an altitude of 319 kuna per capita and this is also important because I am witnessing that some small municipalities in our county in my County of Zadar will achieve greater income and will help them to function and develop these small municipalities that are very close to the city, which do not have such communal equipment or the possibility that they could develop to the level that the city of Zadar itself could. And in this way, the funds that are given and the county will allow them to have a special impact on both these and such municipalities that this inequality that exists now is of a much better quality and to be kept in mind if we really want equal opportunities for all then it should be highly motivated for those of us who do. What I would also like to point out is that the state has taken over on itself and this part 16% help to balance which will be like a transfer from the state budget, and I forgot to mention this, already colleagues have pointed out that balancing, fiscal balancing is happening on a daily basis, so discharge in their own incomes of the basic, original revenues of the budget that will thus increase the fiscal capacity of each municipality and city for any capital building, for any credit or anything like that. Also, the savings tax becomes the total income of local units, which was 369 million kuna in 2016, which looks a little bit like this but actually significantly increases the revenues of all the budgets, especially when they are balanced against everyone else. In this way, I think that more equal development is achieved throughout Croatia, and I say, in any case, that this way, our local budgets will be strengthened. I think that when someone was reading what that means in relation to the help in 2018 and 2019, so I don't think we should be unhappy about it. What is said here to help you reduce indirectly is said that our income income from income tax if we succeed in developing everything properly should increase, and that then indirect aid will be so much less and then we should not say this law is something that is constantly changing, it is life and when it is and how it is in a year, two or three I am not obliged to plan a three-year period there are always mechanisms to change something. But with these projections done, it was made a way that the income tax revenue will indeed be higher and that this share in the aid itself will be indirect as little as possible. So here's why I think this law is quality, and it's up to us to improve it as much as we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52346	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52347	Dear colleague Peric, you mentioned the development index here in your presentation. The development index of what is good in this law is, and we talked about this a little before that units of local self-government that have a development index of less than 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia will receive assistance directly from the state budget i.e. income from profit tax, income from tax returns, etc. I agree with that, it's good and it's smart, but it's asking now what are the criteria for calculating the development index. If we remember from the time of Milanovic's government of the mountainous municipalities and cities and cities that in Istria did it seem I lost the status of mountainous mountainous area, they just lost it from that unfortunate index of development and the way it calculated. So what is the key, and what must be linked to this law, and I warmly expect that the ministry will bring new criteria on the basis of which this development index will be calculated because the development index as calculated by the previous government when it downloaded mountainous mountainous area status, when the local self-government unit budget was divided by the head of the population, so municipalities and cities with a few hundred inhabitants had a larger index of development than I don't know Crikvenica down at sea, locks with 700 inhabitants had a larger index of development and thus lost the status of mountainous mountainous area. So what I want to point out is that this 75% development index which would be the key to the distribution of funds if these parameters remain of the development index calculation will not be fair in that sense because simply these units of local self-government are small and fiscally powerless to obtain the financial impact that we want. So the criteria must certainly go both the length of unclassified roads and winter services and everything else that the local self-government unit must do in order to be able to function normally and finance amongst other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52348	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52349	Well, thank you. Yes, it is true that the Index of Development was certainly not in any case correct or did not show the right state, but with this index was incorporated into the previous law, so he then defined all these opportunities and rates of funding that were then offered, but it is normal to expect a new index that would then show a more real state, and I say he will not directly now reflect on the current funding which is so far good, and I say it is always better to review it and bring some new indices that will be fairer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52350	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52351	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, colleagues Peric, you also spoke about the objective of passing this law, especially in fiscal balancing, of this demographic component of this law, which is important to highlight. Because of the demographic situation in the Republic of Croatia, we should look at this demographic component in each law, and this is particularly stressed in this law, and it is said that it is not the direction of these capital investments and the promotion of regional development, but under other legislation, account is taken of additional resources, fostering regional development and demographic recovery of units. Often we have spoken here in the Croatian Parliament, Croatia is as strong as its units of local self-government or municipalities and cities and it is very important to say. That's why it's a good law, this is a great law. This is one model. I think it's one of all the ones we've proposed that suits all local units in real and regional self-government. It is therefore important to highlight both the working group and the public consultation, there have been some recommendations that have arisen in criticising this law, but also the Ministry of Finance and the Working Group have explained this in a way that from now on, all income coming from income tax will be in units of local self-government i.e. municipalities and cities and it should be reiterated that this part of the interest-saving tax also goes to local self-government and regional self-government units. Thus, cities and municipalities receive funding from this aspect from significantly improving their fiscal capacities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52352	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52353	If I were a colleague, I would mention that component, and it should never be forgotten. However, what will be even more interesting to follow, so in the current law there was indeed 16% for capital investment, however, it will be interesting to monitor after 2018 how much these and such municipalities will really lose from total revenues assuming that this 16% is embedded in these transfers. So it will be interesting and it will certainly be the Ministry of Finance to test and see how much this sort of distribution has brought about more. Because don't forget those municipalities that were right, they're 16% islands. Very few have used them for this purpose, so it is possible that in this way a larger coverage and more municipalities will actually use it for some purpose that is absolutely necessary for each individual municipality, whether it is island or is Zagora.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52354	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52355	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Comrade Peric, I agree with you when you said in that section that this law... And it's real. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one I'd say a good step forward if he was simple. We only have four feet that we can calculate and that's where I absolutely agree. But what you continued to say was the capacity of tax revenues. That's where I find the biggest problem and the greatest inequality. We only take income tax to calculate the reference rate. It's something that's not good. You said you were coming from Zadar County, and if you go to compare a little, and I did compare in Zadar County some municipalities have municipalities that have in their income structure only 5 to 10% of tax incomes on income tax, and 50 or 60% have a municipal fee, a municipal contribution or some other income. These same units will receive a large amount of funding from this 17%, a large amount, and their contributions exceed all other revenues from some other local self-government units. I don't know if you're following me. I have a chart here that when I speak on behalf of the club, I will show you that there will be an inequality. So, the municipality that has the biggest income in Croatia, it will still receive additional funding from the state budget. That's what's unfair. So I think we're on the right track, but those things I said, and that's the most important income tax, should not be the only one to determine the reference rate. He's going to be the cause of inequality and it's going to be great.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52356	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52357	When you look at the rates of income tax in the total revenues of cities and municipalities, you have a charm. Big cities have over 30% of that, say, income tax, while small towns make what you've said really very symbolic. However, in this way as unfair as it may seem, we may in this way stimulate that in these small or smaller towns, really, people remain what this demographic component is we're talking about. So I wouldn't view it as necessarily bad, because that's how we stimulate staying, and then it can cause some other changes that will be certainly better for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52358	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52359	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Peric, I think we here no matter how we calculate the index of underdevelopment or development we're talking about crumbs. And this whole bill is talking about crumbs that someone might get or won't get. Income tax, local self-government unit income. We are all aware that the number of jobs is falling, and in fact those real jobs that create a new value for public sector employees do not create a new value, the state gives them salaries or units of local self-government or cities. And it's not and we get very little of that income. Income tax especially falls in poorer regions, units of local self-government for one reason that cities attract more capital than poorer neighborhoods. On the other hand, people from these poorer parts usually go the way of Europe. We don't know the right number, but he's definitely moving over 200,000 people who already left today. And I think there's only going to be a drop in income, not a rise. Stimulating the number of inhabitants in order to have greater rights to what we are giving in Croatia today is not stimulating people or to stay or to give birth to new people, and I also doubt that there will be an increase in income. There are major problems of local self-government units such as unclassified roads that have two costs, which are in very poor condition, rebuilding their and winter service which is very expensive. And with all these incomes that these local self-government units are getting, we can't even keep them on the train a little bit, let alone rebuild them. Gardens, less and less people, less and less kindergarten users in such areas and an ever-increasing burden for local self-government units to finance that kind of vision that exists there. So there's still a mass of what's not defined and people are in the making of a budget. They still don't know what it'll look like. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52360	Thank you. Honorable representative Peric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52361	So I think this bill is actually the least mysterious thing for budgeting because it's really easy to apply and it's always been, this is the mechanism that most often uses income tax and all around income tax. And really this way what I said is very simple is four feet really can't be a problem with the budget plan. It's another thing that you have a lot of other unknowns that you can't install starting with these donations for roads and the like. But as regards the original income from income tax, this is really very simple to apply and especially to small municipalities that do not have decentralised functions. I think this is really the least of the problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52362	Thank you very much. We move on to the next club of representatives, which is that of IDS, PGS and LRI, in the name of which the respected representative Tulio Demetlika will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52363	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and fellow MPs, the honourable secretary of state with the assistant minister. Here is the long-awaited Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The Government of the Republic of Croatia states that this law will define in a simpler, more understandable and fairer way the income distribution system of income tax, the system of fiscal balancing of local and regional self-government units, and the system of financing decentralised functions. And we can agree on this, but practice will show how much it's going to be going to be. However, the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List proposed a proposal for this law with the proposed rate of distribution of income tax between cities and municipalities 60%, the county 17%, decentralised 6% and the Equivalence Fund 15% is unacceptable. I'll try to explain through this exhibit of mine why it's unacceptable and try to make some suggestions that you might install through here a second, first and second reading into the bill, into a new law. So, after the tax reform that came into force on 1 January 2017, the amendment of the Income Tax Act significantly reduced income tax revenues and that reduced income tax mass, you propose to cities, 60%, or the same as in the law so far which is in force while you have increased the amount by only 0.5% to the counties. On the other hand, 17% of the income tax achieved in certain cities and municipalities stands out for fiscal balancing. The bill of this law leads us in the wrong direction. It will not only slow down the further development of the most developed regions, but also the entire of Croatia. We must finally decide we want to develop and strong European or vice versa or inefficient regions. A new model of funding units of local self-government will help to alleviate fiscal inequalities between cities and municipalities, as under the average unit will receive some fiscal alignment funds. However, the fiscal position of average and above average cities will deteriorate due to the removal of compensation aid from 2017. As far as regional self-government units are concerned, the trend in the long-term reduction of the largest non-intentional revenues for counties is unfair, as the necessary budgetary resources for which counties have already taken over long-term commitments are not provided. It should be noted that this income is the basis for calculating the mass of salaries of local units 20% and the basis for calculating the weight of borrowing also 20% and its reduction in the long-term brings developed counties into an unfavourable position. We believe that the financing ratio of the county should be raised to 20%, and this has been a lot of speeches on the county association, and the funds for the balancing fund are compensated from the state budget. For 10 years, we have witnessed a reduction in the original revenues of the county due to tax reforms that have reduced the base of collection of revenue. If the share of income tax remains at the same level, this would lead to a reduction in both investment and regular financing based on public needs in health, social, culture, sport, economic promotion, agriculture and tourism projects. Since in all the discussions so far, both the prime minister and the minister pointed out that no one will be damaged by the new distribution, we believe it would be correct to ensure by increasing the rate the same to the counties left without part of the income, which are the most developed Croatian counties. The requested rate of 20% of the county could take on greater responsibility in the planning and implementation of regional policies, and further investment in regional development projects and programmes, and would finally start with so much decentralisation in practice. In that case, the need for fiscal balancing for counties could be lower, and the share of the Fund could be reduced to, for example, 14%, and the rest as I said, compensated from the state budget. In Istria, we have already proven on the basis of excellent results that the county can give momentum to economic and social development under its powers, and provide quality services to its citizens. The state must establish a fairer way of granting funds and stop punishing those who are the most successful. Such counties bear regional but also state development. In order to make up for the loss of tax revenue, you left the units of local self-government income tax on savings and when it fell to 50% compared to 2016. However, you forgot to state how much income tax was reduced in 2017 compared to 2016. There's no mention of that, of course. In addition, GDP growth should also be monitored by income tax growth, however, this is not the case. In some cities, I will say for example the city of Labin from which I come to Istria the amount of tax funds and income cuts in 2016 fell below the level of 2009. This is neither an incentive nor a developmental tax policy implemented by the central government. Because in those years unemployment has dropped, economic activity has increased, the GDP has increased, and income from income tax is simply lower. This law is particularly unfavourable for those units of local self-government that had the status of mountain-mounted areas, islands and the status of areas of special state concern. The municipalities and cities that, as assisted areas, islands or mountain-mounted areas today have 75% and 88%, respectively, of the share in income tax. And in the future, like others, according to this proposal, the law will receive 60% of the share in income tax. The law provides for compensation for this loss in full in 2018 and 2019 only in half, and since 2020 nothing will be compensated by such municipalities and cities. We propose to prevent, at this time, the damage that would result and which would make up for the loss in 2018 and 2019. Edit the tax allocation for long-term and meaningful purposes and the role units of local and regional self-government should play right now. The government justifies the adoption of such a law by a simple, understandable, fairer distribution system, and behind it is the exploitation of all units of local self-government. The worst part is that it seems to harm the most successful and developed cities and municipalities where higher tax revenues are made. If this law is passed, it will lead to even greater financial centralisation, which means that tax money will be spent on real and necessary needs for other purposes. As the club IDS, PGS and the List of Rivers has already warned local self-government units on numerous occasions, they know the needs of their citizens and communities and what is most needed to spend their resources, whether it is a communal arrangement or infrastructure, pre-school education and education or something else that is within the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities. This law provides for a balancing fund for those units of local self-government that have tax income per capita below the average of 2583 kuna for municipalities of 1925 kuna. This therefore means that all successful units of local self-government who have worked all these years to develop their potentials will be punished for being successful and doing the job they were entrusted with. The IDS, PGS and LRI club absolutely supports the principle of fair solidarity. But this bill can't be called solidarity. The righteous may yet pass, but not in solidarity. The law punishes those best who have contributed not only to their development but also to the development of the whole country. It's a completely backwards steering logic that comes from the assumption that brake is best meant to push those weaker ones. It's not a fair, progressive way of thinking. You've been able to make a law that doesn't look into the future again. Along with the laws that you have passed as part of tax reform, the gap between different parts of Croatia is only increasing. Instead of working on the undeveloped and poorly developed areas reaching those developed and already developed areas to further advance towards European standards of development, this bill is even more centralised by Croatia. The difference between the central state and the local state was 40 billion kuna in 1999, and now 90 billion kuna. These figures show the extent that fiscal centralisation has reached in Croatia, leading to growing regional inequality and destroying the ability of local authorities to strengthen economic growth and provide adequate services to citizens. We in the IDS have always advocated and sought both financial decentralisation and functional, and therefore we cannot support the direction that leads to further centralised. We are not against equating the fiscal capacity of local self-government units, but because of the tax reform implemented and the constant reduction of income tax, we are asking that counties, cities, municipalities, municipalities increase their participation in income tax, counties to 20%, and municipalities and cities to 65%. These are ultimately the funds that have been realised in their area, and the funds that are missing for fiscal balancing are compensated from the state budget. An interesting comparison has been made between Croatia and the EU in taxation of consumption and income. The comparison was made according to the 2014 data, but given the two income tax cuts, the situation is probably even more unfavourable today for income taxation. In fact, the share of GDP income tax in EU countries is 8.1% while in the Republic of Croatia the share is 3.1%. On the other hand, the share of VAT in the EU country is 8% and in the Republic of Croatia is 12.2%. This data shows that Croatia is taxing income as the local income is twice as low as the EU, and consumption is. The VAT which is the country's income is 50% more than the other EU countries. This is proof that all units of local and regional self-government should be allowed to manage the total amount of income tax, and fiscal balancing should be financed from the state budget in which the total VAT revenue mass is left. Finally, the biggest income from consumption tax is realised in the average and above the average municipalities, cities and counties that are devoting funds for their own funding from this bill. And in the end, I still have to look back on the way this law is passed. It is truly regrettable that today, on October 11, three months before predicting the entry into force of this law, we are still having a debate in the first reading. It would be even worse if this law had been adopted by an emergency procedure in just one reading that we expect units of local and regional self-government to function and how to set themselves up according to the 2018 budget when in mid-October they do not know what kind of law will come into force and what financial amounts they will have next year. Furthermore, what kind of message the Government sends to investors in this way and how investment in the development of local communities will be promoted in this way. Local and regional self-government units are constantly advised to compensate for the lack of income by putting property into operation, and on the other hand, the state is constantly enrolling in the property that was registered to cities and municipalities. All this prevents the development of units of local self-government and as the use of EU funds, given that local self-government units must allocate considerable resources from their own resources that are already insufficient. And if this law is passed, the funds that will be available to the local self-government unit will be even smaller. Until it is too late, I am calling for our demands to be taken into account when drawing up the final proposal of the Law on the financing of individuals of local and regional, i.e. regional self-government and give Croatia a chance to develop. You can do this in a way to enable those who have put their capacities into development function to continue investing funds in new and already agreed projects. Don't stop the locomotives 'cause you're gonna slow down the whole train like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52364	Thank you. And there are several replicas for your exposure. The first is Honorable Representative Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52365	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Demetlika, and if I pointed out wrongly Demetlika, I suppose. In the first sentence, you were actually saying that this bill, that its goal is to be clear, to be transparent and to be fair and that you in the end, that you disagree. You tell and speak to municipalities that have a large indexation, and you forget that the government's intensity is as balanced as possible with regard to these compensatory measures and stands in the transitional and final provisions of Article 14 because all of them, meaning the units of local and regional (regional) self-government during 2018 will pay for the aid in the amount of income income from income tax and cut-offs achieved in 2017 and the revenues from the aid achieved in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the implementation of the state budget. So that's clear. When you spoke of non-transparentity in the adoption of proposals of this law, fortunately not to go by emergency procedure but when you talked about it, then in this public consultation as far as I know the Primorje-Gorski County only reported about the distribution of income tax. And as far as I see it, the Ministry of Finance has actually responded that it accepts it in part, means in part what you said should go from 17 to 20% of the share of fiscal balancing, and that's what the Ministry of Finance has said to you, which is why it's not actually possible. It should be said that this is the first time that fiscal capacity is calculated per capita. And you know for a fact that in this House, we've passed dozens of laws relating to the community's own income, perhaps 7, 8 or 10. But the obligations that arose for local self-government units were about 38 to 40. So that wasn't fair. And in the end, I don't understand what you're saying, as an opposition, against taxes, and you're talking about introducing new taxes in your presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52366	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The answer to Mr. Demetlik's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52367	Mr. Vice President, colleague Babic. I don't think you understand me at all. I didn't say a word about transparency at all. No, no. I supported all these goals that the government wrote, and I just asked one question about how to implement it. My speech focused precisely on the fact that with this bill of law, income tax mass is less than it was last year. With the measures the government is proposing now compensation through seventeenth and eighteenth to cover minus income tax, it's only for two years. These other assisted areas that are losing, so I emphasized particularly mountain-mounted islands, which had 70 or 88% so far, will be supported by 2018 and 2019 with 50%. We'll see what happens later. It means that what I said, that this law is only one transitional. What the MPs said earlier that we often change laws, that it's the 13th time, this is the fourteenth, I'm just asking the government, that's all. from the Ministry of Finance to finally pass a law that will be long-term, which will give units of local and regional self-government such stability that it can plan. Because when someone tells me they're gonna compensate in two years, and the county, the cities and municipalities have taken over loans for certain projects in the infrastructure for the next 10 or 15 years, I'm asking the question where is this stability. Every government that has come to see if it was SDP's, whether it was HDZ's taken back through the amendments to the law always beats on local self-government units and exactly on income taxes you cut our incomes. I mean, I've been clear enough. What it says now is just a matter of distribution. If the state has already given up as the secretary of state has said, here I suggest that it disowns those 17% for alignment, to direct towards the units of local self-government 5%. 3% according to the county, the rest of the state budget. [[Thank you, Mr. Demetlika. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52368	Mr. Sagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52369	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Demetlika, therefore, is one of the key issues that the government has not devoted to so far, not one government, not even before, and this is a regional reshuffle of the Republic of Croatia. You rightly mention the county, the region. The truth isn't clear to me yet, and what it would actually be, in fact, how it should be regulated. But what I personally think would be good to introduce regions into the Republic of Croatia in that sense that counties and disappear. You're talking about 17% of the funds that will be taken from local self-government units for fiscal balancing. That's where I agree with you. Perhaps if these 17% are already taken from themselves, it might be a good solution for both Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Ministry of Finance to fulfill their pre-election promise to remove the VAT by 1%. That may have been the amount of funds. And finally what I want to point out. When we talk about income tax and distribution, here and the explanation the Ministry gave is standing like this, with income tax, plus. One of the significant sources of funding for a number of units of local and regional self-government are also aids that are achieved on the basis of the criteria set out in the Laws on the implementation of the national budget for each financial year. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So with this, it's gone. And then you can't say that something is increasing, at least for the good part of the units. You will probably not, because you didn't even get that much in Istria, but in Slavonia we received considerable funds in poor municipalities. And that's what needs to be stressed. So something that will no longer be that can't be said to be an increase in the incomes of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52370	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52371	I thank my colleague, Sagar. Where we disagree, it is certain that we are not from the IDS for abolishing the county, but we are for even strengthening not the county but the region. And that's our policy because we think that at that county or regional level things can be dealt with faster and more efficiently than at the state level. Because the units of local self-government, whether cities and municipalities and counties are much closer to their citizens who solve their problems every day than one central state. The fact is that for 25 years we've been pushing always the same model that developed demographic European countries have long rejected. So centralism has ruled out and introduced decentralisation. This is the law we expected to do exactly that, decentralisation. So I will repeat, we do not question fairer distribution, transparency, what I did not answer to my colleague Babić that surely in the past year since the law has been called into question and with the Association of Cities and Municipalities and Countys. But something was accepted, something wasn't, but I'm still saying what the IDS has been saying for 20 years, let's decentralisation the state, that was our first step.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52372	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52373	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Tulio, here I agree in a large part with your debate and you are on some good path towards some kind of decentralisation which I suppose one day will also experience in this Republic. One sentence to quote yours, this bill leads us in the wrong direction. Unfortunately, for the past 26 years, we have been wrongly misdirected by the draft law on the financing of units of local self-government and regional waters, and it is evidence that we are in the same situation as we are today. The purpose of today's counties, the distribution of decentralised funds, salaries to employees, development agencies and something very little that can be done in the county. What is the point here, the county needs to exist but it needs to do a proper decentralisation, they need to be set up for higher incomes because as you yourself said at the level of the county units of local self-government things are far faster resolved. Why don't we just say that 1% of the fuel price goes for the unclassified road? That would be decentralisation. Why don't you go 1% of VAT to local self-government units? That would be decentralisation. However, the central government is talking about decentralisation and decentralisation is missing, source funds, original budgets are falling in all cities and municipalities. I come from Kutina which is an industrial city, so the original budget of the city itself has fallen considerably where the city, as some say, can't paint, can't paint what was done in the last state. This way, it's all going to go to waste, and there's going to be a situation like that, and even if these revenues increase, the local and regional self-government units are going to destroy so much that we won't be able to get rid of it. How many objects we have abandoned that these units of local and regional self-government can't even maintain, they fail, and that's how we lose what we had bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52374	Thank you, thank you very much. Answer? No, I don't. No answer. In front of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Mr Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52375	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. Here we have today's constituency board. I would actually say that one of the key topics somehow passes in an atmosphere that is certainly not appropriate to this law. We had a tumultuous morning, of course that the interests here some are even emotionally charged because anyone who was head of local self-government or regional self-government is looking through one eye. While, of course, our residents, they only want to have a better life. One public communication of this law is that the state disowns itself for the benefit of the local community. And actually today on the board there is and set one quality theme, it's actually vertical cooperation. The co-operation between the county, the cities, the municipalities when it's not burdened with political reasons then I'd say 100% goes down. However, when there are political challenges, it is also a very important table that actually speaks about changes. Of course 60% of what one standard raises is a number of questions. Questions among those who have so far had 88%, which were in assisted areas, in mountain-mounted areas that had added to say our positions for financing capital projects. Also on the islands. And it's very difficult for me as a representative of the club here right now to say we support or don't support. If I look through my local area, then I'll say my community, neighboring municipalities, cities there we'll get extra funds. If we look through the islands that and mountainous mountainous areas then we actually have to say that in some future time they will have a short-term compensation but will lose. We all need to find now in this debate a model that we will also be able to come up with a final proposal in some way to communicate because I am a representative of the club representatives, so both those who come here and in... The bridge from Metkovic all the way to Vukovar and we should have a single view, but it is extremely difficult to see that there has been such distinction between people on the board. What I would particularly refer to is the model by which additional funds will be spent in local units or regional units. The decision is actually the proposal is, even after considering the Ministry of Finance to be a non-intentional asset. I am here coming from Vukovar-Srijem County and aware of all the difficulties, but again I must warn that the audit report has shown that our county spends 2.6 million kunas more on employees than it is allowed by 20% limit. and the pronunciation that was written, in fact, the response to the review opinion was to wait 2018 for the ministry to bring changes to the funding model and then to fit in. Now that's actually what we need to do and point out, whether we're suggesting that these funds be developmental or only for existing certain dubiosis because there was also a fellow Međimurje Mayor Mr. Posavec and his audit showed that he had a lot less employees and that he fits into the 20% limit. Of course they're bigger and there's a possibility that he has my county and then he might fit in, but it's important that the number of employees in the county is significantly smaller. There were now so many or so significantly less performing all functions as a county. On the other hand, here I am as the head of the municipality I met with a problem where schools that are in the jurisdiction of the county inform children who arrive at the beginning of the school year at certain intervals that they need to raise money for toilet paper. I think that's one real human question, if a child comes home and says here they ask for toilet paper, I mean now I'm really not speaking politically, or I'm going to go something but it's the actual event that's happening with us. I intervened then, we simply went out of the municipality's resources and bought not only toilets but also cleaning supplies that were insufficient and we settled that. And then we get to that ok, if these funds are going to increase if we're going to solve such basic problems. It's one developmental component I haven't touched, but I've touched two components that cause doubt and concern about what happens with the extra funds, whether they're just going to be spent or become an investment. Here I am, and in the committee debate, I mentioned another situation in my view that changed, before supporting the local projects that we have all been reporting, at the beginning of the year these public calls were usually called and local self-governments were taking place with the number of primarily municipal projects, the share of support from the state budget that we were ageing but was significantly higher. This year we've had 72 million kunas isolated, he's got a whole series of municipalities if I say one thing I don't know right now, but something less than 300 projects, and we're talking about 200 thousand kunas per project, now means take a local self-government that has its own original tax revenues at the level of a million, million and a half to two, reporting one to two projects worth 400, 500, 600, 700 thousand kunas with all other obligations and you get support from the Ministry of Regional Development 100 or 200 thousand kuna. So to you, here's to me in particular, the obligation that remains will grow to a level of one half a million kuna. Find me a person who's head of local self-government wants to develop, get less support than he expected and refuses. They won't find it. So it's very hard for someone to say I'm going to do it anyway, but it's exhausting, so the little local budgets will be exhausted to make a communal any project that is definitely needed. This is where this misunderstanding arises, whether it's really important to have the mass of something or whether it's important to have quality. If the road is financed one, two, three in a smaller municipality then we come up with those problems of preschool education why it cannot be organised, which are costs and a whole series of such problems that arises. I'm just trying to be a little bit plastic in some of these examples, so maybe someone's gonna be able to replicate about it, but I'd like us to act strategically and from this state level that we're giving along with all the efforts the Ministry of Finance has made to make this increase enough for real development. What I have warned the minister's assistant that we will receive more funds, however, those funds will certainly not be enough to make a quality turn in the development of local self-government. And we have entered the average of all the measures that are happening, we have an average where we grow slightly, but not enough, faster than we are the problems our citizens are struggling with. There could have been a reference to this five-year average, five years ago the situation was significantly better than it started two years ago or three years ago. Displacement five years ago was not present, but two years ago it became symptomatic, this year it was becoming slightly catastrophic. When you take the average, it's just very hard to interpret the situation from five years ago with what was a year ago. And then it makes sense if you take the reference value of local self-government capacity to kick out Zagreb. If Zagreb were to be put into thinking, then they would only see the difference and the part that should be compensated, because when Zagreb is thrown out, which is making significant progress within income tax, then there would be no difference and 2.2 billion, which is now but likely to grow much more. But even those 2.2 billion will not be able to fully compensate, so fiscal balancing will take place within the available means. Another topic I wanted to open here was last year by making a budget like any budget we have a tumultuous, long-term debate with many involved, we all wear out. Then comes that Budget Implementation Act, and in this law one item was indicated, which is that the funds of the 1 and a half percent that you allocated to the EU Regional Regional Project Implementation Co-financing Fund are being re-scheduled. About a hundred and fifty million averages per year were collected somewhere. So we had it at the end of 2016. 300 million. The circus was spent saying 50, there are 250 million kunas left and we are actually making it possible for these funds to be re-scheduled into a whole series of allocations. What jet in was supporting local projects, then improving material conditions in schools. So we had a community investment programme, a regional development support programme. So there was a string, those funds were spent. This year we're going to raise one 150 million kuna again. What about that money? Whether they will be spent again on a whole series of such small projects or really be strategically defined, invest them in what is important and what can bring quality development. I warned that these funds, if they had accumulated anyway, had there not been absorption, had there not been enough projects to be co-financed, would have been a grateful starting point for co-financing. Everyone who has received the European Union project knows that the first funds must be provided on their own, so-called pre-financing. In major projects, it becomes a significant burden. It goes into debt, pays interest, procedurally. With this ministry, it could have opened a fund that would have made pre-financing easier to implement. The moment the construction of a single project closes that those funds are being recovered. That's where we missed our chance. We've shared a lot of small projects. There'll be a lot of commissioners. Personally, if I were the captain and I would brag. Here's what we got, I don't know the two roads and the paths and the cool ones, and they'd compliment me on my citizens, but a little deeper thinking because it's my obligation here. It's not a matter of quantity, it's a matter of changing to quality. I hope that this decision, which is now too, and we'll probably have and in the next budget law, it's still going to turn somewhere to go for more quality use of funds, so that efficiency is significantly higher. It remains only to be considered in the end and what will be the effect after this, because we see in the last laws that have come to these benches, the Law of Defense. So we'll have an extra load on the local budget. Here we have one income which most will consume certain higher revenues, but through that law we will also have certain financial burdens on local self-government. Then it comes to us, there was the Animal Protection Act that we unanimously supported here if maybe there was one abstention that brought the obligation to finance the animal shelter. We see that decentralisation of obligations goes with it, which is actually one logical policy. It should be kept in mind that what we passed on to the local community, which we added to it to make it a new burden. And what I've been following this debate has not been sitting here, but I've been by the monitor all along and I've watched the local self-government leaders themselves who will no longer have this kind of balancing age will compensate temporarily. They really need to prepare significantly better in future times and here you need to think about how to direct people who manage to prepare their own local budgets, their consumption. Because it's crucial in every budget to tell someone, unfortunately the funds will no longer be available in the extent they've been in, we need to cut you down. It's actually a politically difficult question. And, of course, there's going to be a lot of callouts, and I hope from these discussions that we've had and the ministry will still consider some of these divisions, so maybe it can be considered that if it gets 0.5% maybe it won't mean as much to it as one city or municipality to get 62.63%. We should measure the effects a little bit more. So this law will yet, we'll consider it as a club, but here goes further into debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52376	Thank you, Mr. Panenic. We've got a whole series of replicas. Two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight replicas. The first replica belongs to Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52377	Thank you very much. Comrade Panenić, I don't think there's any need for us to bring this law down to the level of toilet paper at school, because this is a good law. And I'll remind you that by now, we've heard today we've had 13 amendments to this income tax bill. The last two changes, in 2014 local self-government loses a billion and nearly 800 million kuna, with the promise of a compensation fund from which it was later paid in 2015, perhaps 600, 700 million kuna. Pure loss almost a billion and 100 kuna. The latest changes in 2016 have been lost again because we wanted to increase the wages of the people who work. But in 2017, the state compensated every local self-government compared to the month that was in last year as much as it was due... It means about a billion and 400 million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, for the first time, the state is releasing 100% income tax and we here with local self-government say it's not good, we're not going to do it because we didn't all get it. Not everyone got I don't know 100%. Well, we'd all like to have 100% but then we have to think about what the county will do and what cities and municipalities that have decentralised functions will do. If I were from Slavonia, from Sinj, I'd raise two hands for this. That's right, I won't think, or I won't, but I'd raise two hands for it because you'll see that many local self-governments will have twice the income tax compared to what they have now. We on the islands, here today we have a report on the Law on Islands 2014 and 2015, 3 billion and 200 aid to the state through investments, loans, subsidies and support. When we remove loans, subsidies and support remains a billion and 800 in two years investment in 50 local self-government only capital projects, roads, water and everything else that goes. Well, I guess that country does. So let's not think about it that way. So this is really a law that goes in favor, but we can't do some little things right now, so now we're all unhappy again, because not all those who had a lot didn't get what they were supposed to get.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52378	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Boric. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52379	Dear colleague Boris, it's actually good when you mention the state you gave. In fact, we're setting ourselves wrong, there's no state to give, I mean, it's all our citizens who have gained something by their work. But consider that in my environment where I come from with this tax last reform was actually taken into account by citizens and businesses of relief. And now we're going back to the budget. So we did not bring these citizens and entrepreneurs back to the budget where it depends on the ability, or incompetence of local leaders, to direct these funds. And I'd like us to have businessmen, I mean in the person of the head, so the mayor or mayor, the mayor, to have both businessmen and to tell someone who's both socially conscious and communally conscious and to look for an optimum of consumption. This is how our citizens leave and we build a beautiful infrastructure. That syndrome, I watched it both in the eastern part of Germany and Spain because I was where beautiful roads, beautiful infrastructure will have both closed doors and windows. This is what bothers us in Slavonia, tortures us in Sinj and with colleagues Bulja. That's the problem. That's why I said we're looking for a significant turn there. Because this is, I welcome the ministry's efforts and that's one supplement that, however, is definitely not enough. I think we're talking about 1%, 2%, so there's growth stopped there that we should now add 20% to a single injection that would make a significant acceleration in a short time. I cannot come from such an area and say that something will change. The citizens who live there can only say they won't change, we might have to say one infrastructure facility or some infrastructure, actually more but we won't change the essence we live in. That's what I wanted to talk to you about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52380	Thank you. The second replica should belong to Mr. Bull. Possible? Possible? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52381	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague, Panenic, is most important in financing balanced regional development and local self-government in the whole story. The fact is that all the laws, counterpart Boric now said, mentions the 2014 Law and previous laws, have always been some kind of injustice, mostly some kind of political development index, which a large number of municipalities and cities, families, have declared to be developed and were essentially undeveloped because of the criteria that were disastrous in the index. Any initiative to change the law that goes in terms, I now hear different attitudes here, which goes to be an evenly developed area of local self-government, regardless of what area, that everything is reduced to the city of Zagreb and a couple of strong regional financial areas such as Istria. We have the meaning of the extinction of your Slavonia, the Dalmatian Zagora and like. And that is the key question of whether alone as legislators, states, as Government, shifts a large part of the commitment. You mentioned the defenders, but where the Red Cross is, where there are numerous others who need local self-government, fire, voluntary fire, etc., those obligations legally. But I am personally interested in what results from even development. What is the result of you, whether this legislative change is going in a positive direction and whether it is better than the current regulation which is unfair. We need to know that the current law we have by indexation made by the Jadranka Kosor government but has accepted Milanovic's government. So is something more transparent now, better and clearer towards local self-government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52382	The answer to the line, Mr Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52383	Dear fellow Bulj, of course when we talk about the Regional Development Act, there is also a Regional Development Fund, which, I have been listening to for years of stories, is not there. So this fund that would actually be a financial instrument for balancing that would embrace all our problems and try to find some adequate solutions no one has yet had the power to create in this time. Here, fellow Boric mentioned actually that toilet paper that is, but really what if we have this kind of thing then we'll have the law on toilet paper. Because the law might solve that one problem, but it's too small, and then they'll say, maybe no such one will show up, I'll say a banal problem that's more embarrassing. But let's get back to this, there's going to be a new indexation now, the Regional Development Ministry is working on it, there's going to be some shifts, someone's going to be a little bit more categorized, than they're going to fall back into some worse group. About, but here we are, I'm saying all the time we're in connected vessels where the water's over our heads and here they're slowly rising. And I understand the exclusion actually when you look only at the exclusion of the city of Zagreb, it says how far the city of Zagreb has progressed in relation to other parts of the Republic of Croatia, especially those in the assisted areas. And we want there to be a whole series of laws that contribute to that but then we can't afford to have one law that will give us a certain advantage and then we get two laws that fuck us and fuck us again where politics decides. I'm always up for it let's get the laws, because, as much as the tax on relief for entrepreneurs was listed, somewhere the value was 40 million kuna. 40 million kunas isn't big money, but we've been taken away from 40 million kunas. And now he'll come back to us, but through the local budget, through the political budget, some money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52384	Thank you, too. The third replica belongs to Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52385	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic, you said on behalf of the club that we would consider further support for this law. I can now say that on the basis of what this introduction of this law has been issued by the Ministry of Finance, the goal of fiscal balancing is not to direct capital investment and encourage regional development. So that's where the law is fenced. In this sense, the law is good. We have nothing to think about, he's giving this division, probably the experts were doing, 17%, 6%, 17%, 60%. It is clear to me now that what you have pointed out that some municipalities will never get 88% again, simply can't mathematically do so. What is disputed with me in this law are transitional provisions where the aids that have been so far have been abolished by those units of local self-government most in need. And look, in my community, you know, the first exodus was there in the 1970s, and then in the '90s there was privatisation during the Homeland War, and Slatina was destroyed as a natural center. My colleague Hrg asked me what my community is doing, 50 companies were destroyed during the privatisation, where do these people work? And it's not a problem right now in this calculation, okay capacity achieved income per person, the reference value, but the man is gone, we're getting smaller there and if we multiply these benchmarks we actually have tax revenues very low. That's our problem. How can this community survive? That's what I ask the Ministry of Finance, ask eventually the government of the Republic of Croatia then and all of us. Maybe it's fairer, the community where you live tomorrow is doomed and not that someone will later say you're incompetent, you don't know how to run your community. So how are we supposed to run it when we don't have any resources and everything that's worth it is destroyed. And even agriculture and the Agricultural Land Act that was brought here and it is not well directed towards young OPGs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52386	Thank you. Mr. Panenic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52387	My colleague, Žagar, in fact, we always bring it down, we come from such an area of the municipality in which, in the autumn, it becomes more and more truly rural, I would even say no more rural than agricultural municipalities. Because it would rurally mean you have other contents, so we're left with land and we're left with agricultural producers, agricultural producers leaving much smaller, then they're rounding up and such villages where there's gonna be a dozen large agricultural producers that are going to be competitively competitive and successful, and they won't need local self-government anymore because there's no need to have a chief, administration and worry about what they can actually achieve for any, and then actually it's a nice way we're all going to be able to get along administratively, and that's one of the goals that we've said, just that we're looking to be a political decision. So let's make a decision, let's circle up to our citizens to get a favor that is suitable for what they expect in any other part of Croatia. This way, it'll be exhausting, it feels like someone's coming to you or to me and saying turn yourself in, but now it's this fight, we're not gonna give up, so let's just go as far as we can, so we're not gonna let someone next door prosper, we're going back. I also referred to the amendments to the Vukovar Development Act. I'm rooting for the town of Vukovar. It's a real place that got hurt, neighboring, to say, local self-government, but what are we around for? We're all gonna get hurt. We will disappear because there is no entrepreneur of interest one foot outside the border of the town of Vukovar or hire a worker who comes to town because he does not use it, does not absorb any perks given to the city of Vukovar. I also went to the mayor and said we just want to be part of that yard, we used to be a community, now we want to become an integral part, to enjoy these benefits because people from my community... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52388	Thank you very much, Mr. Panenic. Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52389	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Panenić, you gave the accent of your exposure somehow to quality spending of funds, you expressed your suspicion that this law does not stand exactly where these funds should be spent, and then you cited examples of how there are counties that single out more than 20% of their employees' personal incomes, that there are those who also perform their functions quality and far less spending, and then how there are counties where even in high school should be carried by a parent or student and toilet paper. In fact, this law really does not specify how those leaders who do so will be punished or rewarded. I would say that the citizens do it best in the elections and when someone says that some mayor, municipal chief or mayor wastes unskilledly and irrationally the resources of his budget and that he wins the elections again, I would say that it is a lie, it will surely say the opposition every time but if a head, mayor, mayor, mayor, for the second time or third time wins the elections she certainly has citizens' trust and there we can't talk about unhappiness of irrational or poor unquality spending of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52390	Thank you very much. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52391	Well, it's always management, let's say to the voting body it's also politics, that way we can watch it. However, here you have an audit report, which says that the mayor paid an severance of more than 90,000 when it was only 9,000, it's written like that. When he didn't actually pay the costs of water analysis, so it wasn't done, then he's having an entire affair in the Comletnica that's going on. When he spent on hiring 2.6 million more than the law provided. These are criteria that are very pragmatic and someone who is a state institution has found as such. It's written somewhere. Now we can politicize here, but I'm just looking back at what an institution I respect, which has its own ingenuity, has determined and asked for it to be corrected. So we want, not only that, that I will promise that, because we all know that the audit comes, they determine it, they make a recommendation, you get a conditional opinion, they show up in a couple of years later, they say what you did, so they say, this is what I did, this is what I started, and so there's no real move. But it would be a real political responsibility, if such a report were to come out and ask for it to be fixed quickly, you have a certain time limit and there are sanctions. Then the citizens would actually feel the benefits before the local elections they could change. It means we don't have to settle down to a personal level. I am the opposition in the county, and maybe I am both emotional and here when I'm performing, but I'm talking about a real problem. And it's a real problem for me when a kid comes home from school and says, "Give me some toilet paper." Then it comes to me to take out everything I need and give it there because it's ugly to be in such a situation at all, to fall to that level. I think we're talking about tiny here for material expenses, for example. My school has 4,000 kn. What's £4,000 for a whole school in one place? In cities there's a lot of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52392	Mr. Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Panenic, I must confess that you have encouraged me to think with your debate. My impression is that more or less all governments and current and these in the past, in principle, with the Law on the financing of local administrations, self-government, are constantly turning from hollow to empty. Then one takes on one side to give the other, the other takes the third to give the fourth. Tomorrow some new government will come and take fifth place to give the sixth, but my personal impression is that the real reasons don't work out at all. We have a huge number of local administration units, self-government, which you say yourself, are co-financed by the state to even exist. The average number of employees in local administration and self-government units is well below 10 people. What I know is that even if we gave such units a pile of money, they couldn't absorb money into some big development projects, because a small number of people can't do big things. It's just like that. We live in the world today when some new services are developed to access broadband, data openness services, on a line service for citizens, like this. It is not a topic in our municipalities today, because I simply cannot absorb such things. And I'm saying again my impression is that for years we've actually been trying to ensure that all these units of local administrations or self-government are cool enough to exist. But if we're dealing with the cold drive, then there's no development at all. Development is something we should forget, and we talk about development all the time. If we want to develop, then we really should completely reorganize at some point. A colleague, Sagar, spoke of de facto reasons, for which the municipality ceases to exist at all. So we really need to get in that story legally, territorially, or humanly, however you want to reorganize, so we can even absorb the money that we can get. European money or whatever. So my personal impression, here's what I end up with, is that we actually need to reorganize local administration and self-government in the right sense of that word, so that we can deal with development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52394	Thank you. Mr. Panenic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52395	Thank you very much for your comment. So here's a lot of debate now on Agrokor as a systemically important company. In fact, I don't see that in local self-government, we have a system-wide error in that. And then it's understandable that even the leaders of local self-government when they're doing something they don't have a quantified result, they can't stop any man from leaving. They're calling it political involvement. So, the funds are so small, you can't make a general shift within them, that you can prove to your population, your ability or your ability to go somewhere. Sometimes in a joke we say let's sell it all together, which we have, whatever it's worth, so let's go buy a building in Germany so we can all move in there. In places that are here who prevail with me, it has fallen below 300 inhabitants. Enough to say that strategically you don't have to build a drain system anymore, because under 300 residents, why is it to build expensive infrastructure. And then comes the question of even those basic infrastructures, who needs them. There's a good commercial that goes locally to us, so, a clerical shop, for tombstones, says the discount lasts as long as there are living in Slavonia. Therefore, it seems to me that these municipalities will last as long as there are living, not only in Slavonia, but somewhere further, where we will not realize, once again, that there are no more political officials who are there, because I personally, that I am the Chief and that I have 2 deputies in the municipality that has 1500 residents per list, and indeed it is less, because to respect some general criteria is too much. So they're officials, they don't even have to show up. He's entitled to at least that fee. He can ask to be an employee. So one municipality after one election can get into a situation where three officials are asked to pay. We have a systemic error.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52396	Thank you very much. Sir, the replica has Mr. Angelko Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52397	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Panenic, well, I listened very carefully to your debate, which in certain parts was so dramatic, especially this part of the school. So now I'm asking myself, how is it possible that certain schools are one shift class, some have three shifts. Some are well equipped with computers and laptops, smart plates, some have none of them. Some schools, i.e. students participate in numerous competitions, international eco-school programmes and have established school students' associations, and some have nothing. Do I really not know the representatives, the ministers, the central government, or who? It's also interesting, and I've been the head of the University of High since '99. by 2009 and the budget of the municipality is the first one for 290 thousand kuna, the last 700 thousand. Not literally. But both the chief and then the members of the headship and the president of the council and the council all worked on zero kunas, employed only one person, but for children we always found ourselves not founders as municipalities and no obligations to the school, so we co-financed both the school kitchen and the international eco school and gifts for all children from one day of age to the eighth grade of St. Nicole and the school kitchen and the awards to all the students who participated in the competition, and now the question is, how do individual schools and directors get to do it, and others don't? So maybe there's a little problem with the principals, maybe you should ask your principal how interested he is in school work. And now, at the end of your debate, you have given an interesting same conclusion that rural development will suffer because of the Law on Croatian Defence over 0.3%. so do you really think... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52398	Thank you, Mr. Uncle, thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52399	Thank you very much. Here, as a volunteer in the Homeland War, I came without any request for any financial compensation. In the end the state determined to get some pay, I think it was at 120 marks it was at the time, but so I came just as you said I wasn't looking for anything, I'm fighting or I'm working for what I believe. And you're right about the schools themselves, the principals and the director's responsibility and their ability is actually their virtue and it feels in every school and that school lives. But that director where he shows up, he hangs out with the mayor, he hangs out in the county's management department, hangs out with the chiefs, in people, fights, raises the funds, of course, and then his position is to refuse him when he comes to you all the time and has ideas, so he wants to do something, and you, as much as you can be a small budget or a hard heart, always single out something. I don't have that situation, so at the time I was chief, first I don't have that situation director doesn't come. The second is that the political option I'm opposed to is that I don't participate in the school board, but some other people are there, and then the only thing you can hear or learn so indirectly, and that's where I react. Of course it's not an immune municipality or an exception, but it's children who come from every municipality or city and man-leader takes care of them, but there's always why it can't be more direct, why it can't be involvement. So we can't just look at politics, we're talking about children who aren't the political object of our struggles, but we're looking for co-existence. The reality is, we all need to get involved. I didn't aliminate any of us MPs to the lower, but efficiency, precisely one of the reasons why I mentioned that these funds that will be unintended I'm afraid they won't be spent without the effect of the wish of the ministry and the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52400	Thank you very much. Next replica, Mr. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52401	Dear fellow Panenić, you mentioned and the reason for my replica is your statement where you mentioned the emigration, the release of cities and villages and all this is happening. And now that we think about where we live, we live in a country that has 4 million inhabitants of which a million inhabitants are here in Zagreb. We live in a country that has from Dubrovnik, through Istria, like, Gorski Kotar and Slavonia so much wealth on these remaining 3 million inhabitants. We live in a country that had an arms embargo, we live in a country that won the Homeland War where cities were here, Vukovar burned to the ground, restored and built. And when we talk about eviction and everything that's going on in this country, do we ever think about what we're talking about here in the Parliament, what is the guilt on us who are in politics? How many times have we heard of hundreds, decades here in Parliament, and I don't know how many thousands of young people are leaving I don't know where? And what particularly hurt me the other day when I read in all the media a statement by the attorney general for children appointed by this House, which was paid by the state budget. Speak, learn foreign languages and run away with your head no matter what. Where's that? Where do they run from? What's the responsibility on us? How much money, any means we give now by this law or by any law, any assisted area can help us make no roads, what kind of infrastructure if we send such a message to young people, and we don't fight for them, we don't create new values, we don't create the right values where they will find a job, where they will have a safe existence, and we live in a country that God has given us that no one here in Europe. Here's the tourist season, look out for us there's 4 million, one medium-sized city in Europe and we're talking like this, run for your head no matter what. And that's what people who are on the state budget who pay you the same citizens, and we keep silent and we listen and we watch it in the media and we read it in the papers and nobody says anything but we repeat that mantra here in the Parliament. What's the guilt on us that this is happening? And then we wonder why our villages and cities are empty, why we don't open jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52402	Thank you. Mr. Klaric, I voted against not accepting that report, but I must tell you that you are right. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52403	Dear colleague Klaric. It is certain that we should send strong messages from here to support if the moment is difficult. It's not even this government's fault, even those before we see it accumulated through time and coming and this problem becomes bigger than it is. Those of us out there in a tough position, we're looking for a tough cut. So one cut where the state will be an investor, where the state exerts itself beyond the possibilities it has to focus attention on areas that will otherwise disappear. I followed yesterday's comment about the restaurant so the manager of the restaurant is somewhere at sea, I didn't notice, he said that but my staff is now leaving for Austria. So that slow season ends and they're already picked up, he practically stops working because they're going to the winter resort to work. But consider then what it's like for us there when we have people who are over the summer season are at a marine destination, in the fall going, I don't know in Istria are in a grape harvest or somewhere else and then our agricultural producer, the entrepreneur, the small, no people picking fruit, no activity. We still have a social system that allows a bunch of people to sit in front of the store and simply don't like it. It's not a matter of how much he'll pay, it's that I'm willing to pay, come work. Because these are mistakes that we have to correct. Of course, we would all promote the entrepreneurial spirit and development, but we now have a situation, that we will disappear, not because of market conditions, but because of market labour, our entrepreneurship will disappear. I don't know, here's what we're talking about Vukovar and the investment that's going to get there, which up to 500 jobs should create, I'm asking you where we're going to find, 100, 200 workers who are going to work there for a particular salary, which unfortunately isn't too big, because it's what it is. There's no more potential for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52404	Thank you very much. I seem to have seen it, but I'm not sure I've seen Mr. Babic, is it true? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52405	So, you should have seen me, thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You should have seen me, right after Joseph Boric, because I waited politely for all the replicas. But it doesn't matter. A colleague of Panenic's... I won't, colleague Panenic, I think you're aware of how good the bill is and... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] you try to criticize and give certain things and suggestions to this law, and you know that the law is excellent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you speak, you know, we don't need quantity, we need quality, and in the second sentence you said, you know, leaders watch it as local and regional self-government with one eye to this law, because it's good for them for the means they're going to get, while citizens expect a better life. So now, there are a lot of contradictions, if you, with the proposal of this law, or the leaders of the units of local self-government, know this for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, one adjustment, related to the reference rates for the municipalities of 1950 kn for the cities of 2583 kn, so they can plan neatly in their mandate, which means that what they did not have until today or now, they can actually offer their citizens far better, because they will have more resources. It is too little time to tell you, and you have listened to it in this House, but it is excellently emphasized by my colleague Klaric, I sign up to the word, in fact, everything that happens in our society, this lethargy, empathy, destruction, which spreads through this Croatian Parliament, affects the part of people leaving the Republic of Croatia. That's definitely not good, and it's a good thing he mentioned the lawyer for the kids. But as for that toilet paper and those sanitary supplies, they don't need to worry about it now either, because all decentralised functions are taking over. So everything literally everything, decentralised functions, so there will be more money left in municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52406	Thank you very much. The answer is Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52407	Thank you, fellow Babic, we understand a lot, only I would say, direction, what we can say goes in that direction, but speed is insufficient. It should be understood that the speed at which other parts of Croatia go is so small that we simply won't be able to get ahead of the needs of the population, but we will go backwards. And then of course people compare to other parts and say why I would spend my life here. It's not my problem, I've managed, and my life, I've determined where, but what I'm going to tell my children is, is this the place where we live prosperously, stay here, you'll have your future. I think that's what we're talking about. So if we don't create the conditions that the youngsters can see, from our communication, because I need my words like you do with you, the dix representative says, they ask how it's going to be, is it gonna be better? I don't know, I can't say it won't be better, I don't know. Because what this has is too slow. It's just too slow and it doesn't bring hope. To make you feel like you're the head of a local self-government that has a business zone and that no investment has happened there for years, so you just gave it all away. You give for that 0 kuna, I mean with all of those, not to be 0, but 1 kn, you make no investment happen. No investor has received measure 4 1 but only 4 2, so other investors will not have one problem. Everyone has a problem and then eventually it collapses. Understand that as the head of local self-government, you have put a great deal of effort into documentation, in combating these competitions, in building and in the end to your residents, what can you say? Here they are now in neighbouring municipalities that are under the law on the area of the city of Vukovar events, they will be thrown out. They're gonna throw out... The factory that my community isn't there, will throw them out and won't even have that privilege that they had under that law anymore, so what do you say? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're going one more step back. Here, speed, speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52408	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the clubs. Mr Branimir Bunjac, in front of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and the SNAG.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52409	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have today, before us, the Law on the financing of local self-government. As we have heard, there have already been 13 changes, and here I am not a prophet, but I announce 14 changes very quickly, it is not difficult to guess, for the simple reason that nothing like this can be solved. And I'd like to briefly explain that in my exposure to the provoj part, to say what we're funding at all, and in the second part, how we finance it. So, just a brief reminder that Croatia had more inhabitants in 1991 than today had 102 municipalities and 70 cities, and today there are about half a million people less realistically, 430 municipalities and 128 cities. Many of these municipalities don't have kindergartens, they don't have schools, some don't even have municipal buildings, but they have their own chiefs, they have his deputies, they have councillors, they have secretaries, accountants, communal directors, etc. Only on the salaries of people working in the local administration are we spend 600 million kuna a year and their material costs 1 billion and 100 million. In doing so, it is interesting that the mayors of the municipality themselves determine their own salary that can possibly be corrected at a council meeting. In addition to the chiefs and vice chiefs who receive salaries and these are quite high salaries, the administration employs 3,000 people minimum and 9,000 council members. Watch out, 9,000 councilmen who all receive fees. Here, Croatia has 4 million inhabitants of 9,000 councilmen, New York with 8 million inhabitants has 49 councilmen. So twice as many residents and 200 times fewer councilmen. It is a reality in the Croatian local administration. We have, of course, the other bodies of local self-government as some intermediaries, such as counties, here each county also has mayors, mayors, councilors, working bodies, headmasters. The mayor's salaries range from 12 700 kuna net to 22 600 kuna per month, in such a range are approximately the salaries of mayors who are respected parliamentary representatives and ministers, much higher than yours. And, of course, the job is less responsible. Here, for example. We have here sitting with us a mayor who had 17 400 kuna, now she has come to the Parliament, so she has a slightly lower salary, approximately in the Zagreb mayor's rank, so she has made her own salary. If we single out only the salaries of 20 largest Croatian cities, 300 thousand kuna are each month, and if we include taxes and contribute, half a million kuna. They get paid by councilmen, here are some who get $1,400 a month, whether the session was or wasn't. If it was by chance, then another 1,400 kuna per session. You get those fees even if you don't come to the sessions, here we have imposed a fine of 150 kuna for not coming to the session, but at the local level there is no such punishment. Of course, with honorary exceptions. Honorable exceptions that can be counted on the fingers of one hand. In addition to getting council fees, we also have working bodies, so the presidents, which kind of committees, I don't know, the county has twenty boards. All these committees receive fees, travel expenses, journals, administrations. So here we have even in Zagreb salaries for urban districts and local committees, according to the mayor of Zagreb, it is a church. Here's what kind of church we're talking about. President of the City Council, 7 750 kuna, Vice-President 4 200, members of the Council 2 600th Chairman of the Local Committee 3, 800, members of the Council 1 100, etc. We recently had local elections in Sibenik-Knin County where HDZ won. First job, three times increase fees. Now we hear the pearls that they explained. It was not good before the situation in the economy, so these fees could not be increased and now the situation in the economy is good and could be. The situation in the economy is very good, so I am also telling the other commissioners that they are free to increase their fees three times because we live very well in Croatia and that is, therefore, the first job to be done. The Split-Dalmatia County therefore spends only 140 thousand kuna for one session, a session that lasts an hour, two, this is how much it costs tax liabilities. In addition to the fact that the local administration costs so much, it is very common to abuse because no one alive can control what is done in these vast municipalities, local committees and neighborhoods, for example. The HDZ chief in the municipality of Ceminac in Baranja, charges taxes on tractors and trailers, should be paid 2 thousand kuna to the municipality because someone has trailers for a tractor and there is no such thing in any municipality, but in that municipality there is. Then let's say the head of the Prologac municipality, by chance the HDZ doesn't live there at all, lives in a remote Split, but travels to work every day. He needs to be paid 40 grand kuna that he travels to work every day, but he's not the only one, he's got all the other captains you want. For example, the Municipality of Zagvozd, Municipality of Lokvičić, the chief does not live in his municipality, but he regularly charges travel expenses. Of course, we could mention the Lopar Municipality here right now, that's the community from which the representative is coming from right now, I'm very sorry, but here it is, let's say, 370,000 kunas embezzled, and even there's been a shift of commissioners, amazing. Then we have one of the poorest municipalities in Croatia, Škabrnja, where the mayor of the municipality and his deputy were able to raise in two years 790 thousand kuna. And that 790 thousand kuna, now listen to an excuse why they got off the ATM. Says the mayor of the community, I resorted to a little improvisation, I was aware that these were some kind of irregularities, so I don't follow the law blindly, so they said no historical persons. You see, what you're going to do is blindly obey the law, 790,000 kunas rise on the ATM, and now the minister wants us to pay, to give more. Let's each raise 790,000 kuna. Not to mention how all the bargaining is done, how all the employment is done, how all the public competitions are done, how this local administration treats the press when it's supposed to give some information... swears, fights, hits a journalist's head against the wall. That's what we pay for with this and this kind of funding. Cars, for example, in the town of Obrovec where unemployment is 33% on the team is spent 365 thousand kunas, cars worth half a million kunas are ordered, must be metallic paint, must be Audi 6, BMW, Pasati for this is spent money intended for this law. Let's say poor Perusic must buy Mercedes E250 Blue 4Matic, 3,000 inhabitants half a million kuna. On the other hand, in these same municipalities, these people who spend this great money have such huge salaries, many of them have almost no education, are unable to withdraw funds from the EU, 85% of the municipalities do not withdraw a single kuna of European funds. And it seems that the main purpose of local self-government as we have in Croatia is to entangle. Who? First of all HDZ personnel. It's the purpose of this territorial structure and the law that's being passed. However, if we had even by chance the heads of the municipalities of the professional people who would indeed, as Mr Panenic said, try to do something for their end, that local self-government would not be able to fulfil its function for the simple reason why they are constantly imposed on them by new obligations. It is estimated that in the last ten years, 30 to 40% of the local administration's obligations have been increased, and they are not given enough money. They don't have enough money at their disposal and they live and depend on state aid. If they don't get state aid, they can't even fulfill their basic function. Here I don't want to mention this island issue right now, I believe that some other colleagues have talked about it, but right now we've heard about the last days in the media that, say, the islands of this kind of funding is just going to be down and there's going to be no compensation here, and there's actually some compensation of the funds that are essentially throwing dust in the eyes, and there's not going to be any of that in reality. Without state intervention or state support only four counties in Croatia are sustainable, four counties, I will tell you what the City of Zagreb, Istria County, Primorje-goranska and Zagreb County are. 17 counties in Croatia are unsustainable financial, unsustainable, 70% of municipalities unsustainable. And what will this law change? Who says it's a good law? You think they'll become sustainable after this law, you don't think they'll have to kneel on their knees by the ministries these chiefs and chiefs after a bill like this has been passed to get money for some kind of basic need? Not to mention how many municipalities, cities and all other bodies of local self-government are in charge, they owe four billion kuna. Who's gonna pay it back? Is that going to be covered by this law? They are in charge of 120% and 150% of their incomes, so I speak banally if some municipality has a million kunas its debts are a million and a half kuna, in which way it is meant to be paid, when it will be paid, will it be in a year, in five years, for a table or never? Therefore, I would like to say in the conclusion that this law will not solve the fundamental issues of local self-government that exist for decades. The solution could be the following, 1 or give money to that local self-government to fulfill its function as it is imagined or to move into a radical reconstruction of territorial self-government. In Austria, for example, the municipalities below $ 4.5 thousand do not have the right to pay administration or, better than anything, to go to territorial reconstruction, the Most said, the HDZ spoke twice in the last parliamentary elections. Reduce the number of municipalities maximum but maximum to 100, reduce these nine thousand councilors to the maximum thousand to filter out those people who are truly quality, professional, educated, capable and then to the benefit of all citizens who are at the top of the head of local self-government and who have no confidence in it, whatever you say, they are terrified to finally get what these citizens have been expecting for a very long time. Maybe I don't know here in the context of all this, maybe the government could give up two planes, a hunter F16 who thinks to buy for defense of who I don't know who to give to that local self-government, maybe things would be better eventually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52410	Thank you. You are certain that no one wants to apply for the replica anymore because there are 30 MPs and 15 replicas. Let's get started, Mr. Shipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad I'm first then that means I'm gonna listen to these 15 next who knows what, and it answers even more. By this law, you say, Mr. Bunyan, we're not solving anything. Why and why so far-sighted? Do you know how to finance the salaries and rights of mayors and mayors? Don't tell the truth. It needs to be made clear to the public. You can run and be the mayor or mayor and see if you're even talking about what you are about and if you're going to talk about local self-government leaders like that just one day when you're responsible for the management of the city, the municipalities and people. For the salaries of the mayor and mayor, it is set aside from the local budget, not the state budget. It's the basic postulate I've known as the leader for ten years, that's the first. This exposure is more of a topic for a possible debate on local units, and in the way you've now exposed it, it's really motivated and to deal with politics especially for young people. I'm glad you're off... talking. You have missed the topic, Mr. Bunjac, the problem is that you and the Living Wall have an opinion framed when you rise and whenever any leader or HDZ and whoever represents and represents the current power you already have an opinion about all of us as soon as you get up and it's simply called exclusion and insult in the way you perform. You forget that the local sheriffs, as you say, were chosen by the people and several times. Do you know how many people you've offended in this way in the first place? Don't be mad at the totally wrong approach. ...you haven't spoken a word of today's law, but in the end you smelled something that would be like something of a debate, and this has been offensive so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52412	Thank you. The answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52413	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Šipic, of course you have the right to your opinion, you have probably performed a function so you are impressed with your own picture, but your exposure actually shows what is very important, which is that you as well as I believe most of the representatives of your ruling coalition do not have a picture of the real world. You don't move among citizens at all, and you don't listen to what the citizens say. I assure you, and that is my own opinion, that citizens are not satisfied with local self-government, are not satisfied. I guarantee you that we now send an independent survey on the streets of any unit of local self-government that 80% of citizens will tell you that they are not satisfied and that they should be reformed immediately, nor are they satisfied with the number of municipalities, nor are they satisfied with the number of cities, nor are they satisfied with the number of employees. And when you mention the number of councilmen to them, then I guarantee you that 99% of the citizens will be against it. 99% of Croatian citizens I'm sure I'm against that Croatia has 9,000 councilmen. And when you're saying that some municipalities are funding themselves, and let me know where the debt comes from, how can the municipality be in charge of 150% of the budget and then say that it pays itself? What logic is that? What does he pay his salary for a new debt?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52414	You'll have to take my word for it, but time's up. You can't see it, but I see it here, you can't see if the technique for the people is gone. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure here, Mr. Shipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 was injured where, in one way, not in one way but in an insult to a representative. Mr. Bunjac said at one point that who knows what world I belong to? And I'll have to say the following, I'd ask him if he knows when he ran for mayor whose world he wanted to belong to and if he knows when his wife is his councilwoman in Međimurje County whether he knows if the lady of the world belongs to him. Therefore, to advocate non-compliance with politics, and to do politics alone is something that gives itself some kind of an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52416	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52417	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, just to correct this incorrect thing you've said. The thought or your saying, means that the islands will lose, means the total minus of all islands calculated, given that they lose 16% that they have had on HBOR is 20 million kuna. But it says in the law if you read in an explanation that there is a compensation fund of 102.5 million kuna which should be compensated to local self-governments on the islands that will have less in 2018 and would be correct to say then that they have lost nothing but had what they have so far. And the other thing, you were a mayoral candidate, too, probably wanted to be mayor, and I don't think you went into a bid to lose, 5% means that people just didn't understand you or didn't recognize you because you're always among them and they just didn't realize what you wanted to offer them as mayoral candidate. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52418	Thank you very much. The answer, yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52419	Thank you very much. Well, here's a teammate from HDZ when they don't know what to say, then they go to some personal level, then they mention family, then they're very offended. Mr. Šipić, I don't care about your family. Well, now he's throwing again. [[Intruder Radin: But you must, you must,...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52420	But no, but, well, that's for, well,... Well, that's for judgment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Bunjac: You throw.]] And let's stop, we'll give you more time, answer Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52421	Okay. So basically we're dealing with the subject. You know the island's problem was talked about by the island's people and the mayors of the island's municipalities. And not one of them was saying that, but he was saying more of them. You know that this problem wasn't invented by me or by the Living Wall, but by the way, it's real because the last few days have been mentioned in the media. And I'm very sorry that you didn't listen to me as I was saying that your predecessor in the municipality of Lopar blacked out 370,000 kuna, so you had to replace it. Here's the problem you might have been able to talk about when you were talking about islands and local self-government. Of course, you are now posting to point this out with some kind of obnoxious remark, but basically the topic is that we need to deal with local self-government and in this particular case, the situation on the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52422	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bunzac. Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52423	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You're a phenomenon. You managed at this short time to speak to unite the left, right, upper, bottom, yellow, green, blue. And you know what? I haven't heard this much of the nonsense you've said here at the pay phone in a long time, I haven't heard it, stupidity, untruth, semi-information and bad qualifications that it's almost amazing. You obviously never set foot in a single unit of local self-government, certainly not even though you were supposed to be mayor there, are you? You were supposed to be mayor, so you should know what the local self-government unit means. To qualify all the mayors, mayors and mayors as thieves, criminals and unemployed, shame on you, shame on you, shame on you either. First of all, there are bad examples. I think we all have to fence ourselves from bad examples, mayors, mayors who are criminals, there are them, there are them, and they need to end up in prisons, they need to be processed. But to identify us all with a thief, with crime and unemployment, Mr. Bunjac, we are directly chosen by our citizens. Generalizing, that's embarrassing. It's like we're going to generalize that all priests are paedophiles. We've got one priest, we've all read in the paper, so no one thought to make a law against a priest of paedophiles. And you've given this many qualifications to the leaders of the local self-government units. We really should watch what you're saying, but literally, really watch what you're saying. It's not a threat. It's my well-intentioned advice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52424	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52425	Thank you, Agent Prelec, I appreciate your opinion, but I'm more fond of my own. In fact, you've said a whole bunch of nonsense and nonsense. Thank God there's a phonogram of this session where it's clear that I've never said that all local administration leaders are criminals, but I've listed in the community names of people who have done some things that we have to finance. And I said that citizens are dissatisfied with the territorial structure and the number of employees and the number of councilmen in the Republic of Croatia. And you, now that you're saying that I've united you with HDZ, so what I have to unite you with, you've been united with them for 25 years. So how did you vote today, Mr. Prelec? How did you vote for the EU? How did you vote for NATO? How did you vote for GMOs? You're voting just like HDZ the whole time. You're as different from HDZ as I don't know Pepsi Coke from Coca-Cola, there's no difference between you two. You're the same, you're the same kind. And that's why the Living Wall is here, and as much as you're trying to undermine us, we're still gonna grow. Look at your rating, so it's a high-speed drop as it's called in the abyss. And that's certainly not my fault. I don't know what the big size of the vote was for you, so she entered the House for who knows which key, and that's what your MPs told you about how you came to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52426	Thank you. Look, if we keep on saying you're ashamed, you're ashamed, and on the other hand you're talking nonsense, and nothing, nothing concrete is said but ultimately ends up on non-alcoholic drinks and the differences between Pepsi Coke and Coca-Cola, we won't get far. I would ask you to be specific, not because of us who are more or less and we know what is being talked about, but because of the few who are watching us now. And now, Mr. Uncle, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52427	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you have listed in your debate a series of incorrect data. I think you're either not well informed or it's part of your folklore, or pulsism. In fact, you stated that in our country there are thousands of councilmen who are paid on fees which are not true, that all the mayors and mayors and professionals are also not true. I'll tell you now just an example from Varazdin County, for example. The municipality of Lower Fruit, the captain is a volunteer, for 0 kuna. Holy Elijah, High, Beretinec, Mali Bukovica, Martynec, these are all volunteers who are volunteers or for 0 volunteers or for 0 kuna or for a thousand, two, behave with honor and integrity of their duties. So it would be good if, in future, the resolution ministry would ask for data, precisely to see which municipality and city are professionals, where volunteers, whether they receive fees and how much or not, to be accurately informed, given that you have opened the topic, it would be good to continue it. We're all talking, i.e., not all of us, but individuals that there's a lot of municipalities. Let's talk about the results of these municipalities. For example. The Municipality of Highly purposely emphasized it because I was there as chief that someone would not be offended, I would never have had a sports hall if it hadn't had the status of the municipality. It's under the muddy part where until the '90s the only paved road was from Breznica to Križevci. Now every household has access literally to the house of asphalt. After every storm, the power grid was two, three days out of the machine. Now not only was it reconstructed, it was introduced street and not to count any further. So all these municipalities justified their existence and depended on the commissioners for what they were going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52428	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52429	Thank you very much. There are, of course, mayors and mayors who don't get paid, but that's, say, those who have a salary somewhere else, here's the council's representatives, as far as I know, taking the council's salary so they don't take it in their unit of local administration because they simply can't take it under the law. Of course there are a few bright examples but they are in the minority who work volunteerly and who really saves every kuna, which I don't know, have 5.6% of the budget to spend on wages and administration, and by law they could take more. But here, I mentioned a case in Austria where a municipality below four and a half thousand inhabitants can't get paid. So it's legal to volunteer. And that would be what we would have to do if we really wanted to help the citizens as much as possible, to legally curb the possibility of someone spending money. You mentioned your municipality, here I congratulate you but you do not want to mention the town of Obrovac, one of the poorest cities in the Republic of Croatia that gives 350 thousand for the team. That doesn't bother you. And why is that? Because it's HDZ. I'm sure the Living Wall is there in power to send all possible inspections of this world to determine responsibility but your road is one-way. You only see others but you don't see what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52430	Thank you too, Mr. Bunzac. Mr. Horg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52431	I'm sorry, I got snuck up a little bit. Comrade Bunjac, you say nothing happens to this law, that nothing will change. And it's just something that doesn't stand at all. Especially not in the parts of Croatia from which you come, from the northwestern part. From Međimurje, I do not believe that units of local self-government in Međimurje and the mayors of the municipality and officials, and even people will not feel the changes of this law in a positive sense. You said they don't have local self-government units, they don't have infrastructure, they don't have anything else, so this law goes in that direction to secure funds so they can meet the needs of citizens who are absolutely necessary and important. You said and generally rated, here's what's already been said, you mentioned 9,000 councilmen and their salaries. Let's not generalize, really, I'll do it again even if it's already said. Let's not generalise, there are cases in Croatia that council members in certain local self-government definitely have some sort of pay for the Malta not as a salary. And that's not right, but I'm convinced that the vast majority of local self-government has councilmen who may have some kind of 150, 200 kuna to come to the session. And if she doesn't, she doesn't have the right to. And that's most of it. And we have to say it like that. Let's not throw mud at everyone. I know you're talking to your electoral body and that's exactly what it says, but that's not true. It's just a lie and so you shouldn't be saying, that maybe there shouldn't be so many professionals, deputies, mayors, mayors, that, but people who do that job should be paid for that job, it's not easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52432	Thank you, Mr. Hrg. Here you go, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52433	Thank you very much. Representative Hrg, you are saying that this law is supposed to build schools in Croatia, kindergarten, that local self-government will fulfill its function, so here I hope that this will really be so, that the mayors and mayors will no longer come here when there is a budget and submit amendments to build something in their midst, because you also know well that in Međimurje or in your county many municipalities do not have school, many municipalities do not have enough space in kindergartens, many are struggling with some basic funding. I'll tell you, even though some of them are saying that I've never met before, you'd dare say hundreds of commissioners and that in Croatia and that indeed many of them are struggling to pay their wages. How to pay their wages, they literally call around people, companies, begging to pay a communal fee or I don't know what to do in advance, here I know in case they've begged to pay upfront communal fees so they can pay themselves a naked salary. So is the function of the local administration to pay the chief's salary and the medical fees. If this is the 13th Amendment of the Law or the 14th I don't know exactly which, it tells you in itself enough that the issue of funding of local self-government has not been resolved and all those involved are very well aware of this, participating it from local authorities. If not, you would not have so many regional parties in Croatia who are fighting for their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52434	Thank you, too. Now he's entitled to a replica, Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52435	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I haven't heard your entire debate, but I didn't realize that you generalized and accused all units of local self-government and all mayors and commissioners, maybe it was the opening part of the debate that I didn't hear. But what is the fact is that there are municipalities in Croatia that are unsustainable, which are their own purpose, that there are municipalities that serve only to pay and a few more people with them, that these municipalities cannot use their full potentials. Because they don't have enough people, and they don't have the money to go into the realisation of any projects. I personally know some municipalities near my hometown that are absolutely unsustainable and that's facts. And it is also a fact that there are situations where mayors, mayors, councilors, or in counties or in cities receive too much compensation. But there are also positive examples. Maybe in the debate, we should always talk about negativity, maybe we should talk about positive things sometimes, and here's a colleague from HDZ about some positive examples. There are cities where there is no compensation, no participation in the city council, for the presidents of the city council vice presidents. Here, for example. In the city where I come from, there's no fee, there's no fee for the board members, the board of directors, the mayor's deputies have given up now they'll probably have this new set so, because we've become such a standard, they've denied the fees they're entitled to. Those were huge amounts. For example. the deputy mayor gave up the amount of 300,000 kn in favour of the city's register. These aren't meaningless amounts. So it has positive diameters. And there is a young mayor of Vrgorca, an independent Ante Pramiš, who many show as a positive mayor who has launched a crowd of initiatives, a man works for 4,000 kn has a salary and many things in Vrgorec have been launched. So, I think that these things should be talked about positive examples, then our citizens may expect more from these mayors, mayors, who choose in the elections and ask them somehow to be more rational about the city administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52436	Thank you. Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52437	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoy. So once again, I can repeat what I said before, so there was no generalization there, but it was simply mentioned that most citizens are not satisfied, not by the territorial rise, not by the number of employees, or by the number of councillors in the bodies of the local administration. In the end, you yourself were dissatisfied with it, and in 2 choices you entered with such a program, and I believe that for this very reason you insisted that you receive the Ministry of Administration, which you had for a year and a half, but unfortunately, there was no major shift. Now that opportunity has been missed, we see that your former coalition partners have completely given up, and now there could certainly be significant savings in this area, it could increase efficiency, and the strengthening of local self-government units could achieve greater withdrawal of funds from the EU. We know, among other things, that many of these municipalities simply, not only are not capable but they do not have formal legal conditions to participate in competitions for these funds. And surely, a new reconstruction could also be looked after, and that would be one way for local self - administration to get more money. I repeat, the key thing is whether we will decentralize the state, centralize it, whether we will make the unit of local self-government efficient and service citizens or continue to listen to complaints, often justified that it is necessary to satisfy certain party structures and what is the worst of all family fine-tuning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52438	Thank you. Mr. Panenic, he had to come out. Okay. He's losing his right. Mrs. Dark-Tritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52439	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you have actually reached Mercedes and the plane in your presentation, but you have also reached the City of Zagreb. There are 17 city districts and 218 local committees in the City of Zagreb. And that's where you mentioned the compensation the councilors receive. The city of Zagreb, for example, is one of those 17 urban districts, when you compare the territory it has and the number of inhabitants, let's say, when we mention the Sesvete, Sesvete has 90 000 inhabitants and if it were a separate city, then it would be 4 or 5 cities by size in Croatia. And the absolute methodology, that is, the way the city districts exist and under which there are local committees are extremely good, because these people can satisfy their interests. You also mentioned the amounts they receive. I have to admit that fashion is a little bit less of a problem, or what's the problem in terms, than the problem in jurisdiction is what they can do and the problem is what they really do. And the problem when there is in the City of Zagreb and when you have a cover on the road that beats and then someone, therefore, the lady who knocks under the window then she goes to the local board, then the local board is not in charge, then she goes from the local defenses to the councils of the city districts and they say they are not in charge, but to go to the Croatian roads. Then Croatian roads say they are not in charge but to go to some other body, then that body says, you know what, best go to the mayor. Because the city of Zagreb normally works in a way that really the mayor decides everything. So that's where we have two topics. One topic is actually the way it works for why we need to advocate that everyone works for what they do the way they do. And the second topic you mentioned here is compensation. These work fees would not be controversial or would be controversial if they were indeed decided and done what the citizens and elected for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52440	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Bunjac, I agree with Mr. Bunjac, but lift the bat now. Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52441	All right, I'm sorry. Dear Representative Taritash, here's the truth: I have no doubt that your intentions are good. I believe that if you were able to become mayor of Zagreb, you would have improved some things. But what I doubt, I doubt, is that in Zagreb, we have 17 councils in the city district, and if I'm not mistaken, and I don't think I'm wrong about 300 local committees, Okay, 218, thanks for the correction. [[Intruder: 218.]] Do you really think the city of Zagreb has the capacity to choose so many thousands of councilmen? Is there so many of these professionals that I can't manage public finances, go... I don't know 9,000 municipal councilmen, so here we see in Zagreb I don't know how many there are, I'm sure there are in local committees, city districts still about 2, 3 grand, whether how to control it at all, how to effectively organize these people, so I just think it's too much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it should be the city districts or local committees, not the other. And then you say, in the end, that one person, possibly the city congregation that we have, decides everything. I set the example that the city of New York has a mayor, five deputy mayors and 49 councilmen. Be careful, it is a city of 8 million people and can by all means be a role model for the city of Zagreb. How does it work out there and it doesn't work here? After all, we could ask how is it possible that a mayor manages a city of half a million inhabitants and then it is also necessary for one mayor to manage a municipality of 2,000 people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52442	Thank you, too. Mr. Paric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bunjac is being held here as a boss per thorn because it seems to me that you misjudged the target audience today in the Parliament because, in principle, the target and interested audience in the Assembly are today most of the mayors, chiefs and others. I tried to figure out exactly what you were saying in principle. And if I understand correctly, I agree with you in a great deal of it. The fact is that we are a state that has a huge number of units of local administration and self-government, the fact is that we are totally crushed and that we are as such inefficient, whatever we want to admit to ourselves or not. It's like having a company that has 125 managers, managers, managers and others and has 10 workers or employees. That these are the best managers in the world, that these are the best workers in the world, it's hard for someone to eat bread in the company. Unfortunately, it seems that way. What you did wrong, you should have cited some good examples in all of this so that we don't have a troubled spirit because there are definitely a lot of people in charge and mayors doing great things in this country. What I did to my colleague Panenić said at one point that you would become chief and you can't do anything because you don't have people, you don't have funds, that it's kind of a disaster, that's the problem. A colleague from HDZ justifies the existence of the municipality by bringing the road to everyone's home. That's great, but in '68, it's 2017. What I'm saying is, people, we urgently need to reorganize the system of local administration and self-government, we urgently need to circle or I don't know what to do, we need to become efficient, and we need to become able to absorb new things and contribute to development rather than being like this, all of this remains to be poured into the void. And now I'm going to run away so I don't. I thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52444	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull. Mr. Bunting. Mr. Bull, here you go. Yeah. [[I'm the one who's the one who's the one who's the one ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52445	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues of Bunjac, you spoke in principle about what they know and colleagues from HDZ, we have more municipalities and cities than the United States. It is a relevant fact, such a small country with 4 million inhabitants, which is in decline, in rapid, has too many local self-governments. And of course you didn't object to decentralisation anywhere, though. You objected, for example. I'll point out, here's an example of the former Sinj municipality, that's the Cetina province that now has 6 local self-government, I'm sorry it's not a fellow Shipic, it's produced 6 local self-governments. In Sinj municipality, there were about 30 people working somewhere. There were no computers, there were no information equipment and now only in the city administrations in Sinj, the city, there are about 40, in Trilje 20, a total of one hundred people and nothing better are services to the citizens than they were. And I agree with you that there are numerous companies within the local self-government that are exclusively for entanglement. I'm talking about where I come from. And I'm really sorry that my colleague, Šipic, can, the injury of the Rules of Procedure, has been sought because you are not a bad intention. I'm personally 10 years ago, since then I've also been president of the local committee and I've left my local board and now I'm chairman of the local board, and I'm also without compensation for 10 years, but that's nice, but local committees have been forgotten in the smaller local environments both from the local mayor and from the mayor, of all. These people are really people who are fighting in the field, who have no compensation and these people need to be evaluated in some kind of local self-government reorganisation. But I agree with you that there are more brothers mayors, unfortunately the chief of staff, as many vehicles, secretaries, and everything else, that a vast portion of the funds could have been directed into the development of that. .../The speaker doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52446	Thank you. The answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52447	Thank you very much. Agent Bully, you see that's one phenomenon. There should not be too much wisdom enough to take some maps of previous territorial administrations and look at the different states were on our space perhaps back in the last two hundred years and see that once this public administration worked very well with a far smaller number of municipalities. They used to have, for example, Croatian counties, each had four sub-counties and everything worked very well, so the county, four municipalities were neither necessary nor necessary, but the thing was being resolved further on local committees that you mentioned among other things that were neglected. And when that local administration started to form, and it formed in the 1990s, it had three to four times fewer employees than it does today. So we have a tendency, a continuing tendency to increase the number of employees and councilmen. The Međimurje County from which I came when it was founded 90 and I don't know exactly what year it was, had 12 employees I was employed. I believe that's what happened in other counties. You've got 50 today, and I see there's a county where there's 100 employees and they're still looking for ways to hire and there's no such clauses that forbid the spending of too much money from the budget I believe they'd still be employed. And you know very well how to hire these certain leaders, how to hire some experts alleged in the county, they are hired exclusively from party ranks, and not once we have had examples that they are employed wives, that they are employed brothers, godfathers, sons-in-laws, all without competitions, often without competitions. I wish I could talk more about positive examples, but I'm afraid I'm repeating them again isn't very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52448	Thank you. Mr. Sagar has the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52449	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear comrade Bunjac. So in your debate, you have opened a series of topics that are far beyond the scope of this legal solution. Public procurement, of course, is where we can agree, should be better controlled. Information that 25 billion kunas are spent annually on public procurement, all other municipalities and cities in the Republic of Zagreb ten billion. Chief's salary, you mentioned those negative examples of the chief, some call them sheriffs, I'd call before cowboys, but there are far more positive examples of the captain. What is not a good solution in my opinion that representative bodies decide on the salaries of the commissioner, so my colleague, your fellow professor of history, who is the head of a municipality has a fee as a volunteer, the truth of which is called volunteer, has a fee of two and a half thousand kuna, and his colleague with the SSS head of the municipality of the same size has 12 thousand kuna net salary. These things need to be arranged, and I agree with you, they're not good. But what I disagree with you, territorial reconstruction, is a serious issue. To speak now of some maximum 100 municipalities about size I don't know I mean in Austria you mentioned 4.5 thousand people, so you know about Croatian opportunities it's something quite different. You say that citizens speak against units of local self-government, find me a municipality in the Republic of Croatia find ten citizens, ten residents of the municipality who will say I am for shutting down my municipality, find them and I will trust you then. So that's not how it works. Some Western European countries have done so in another way that they have motivated local self-government units to join together to make it easier to withdraw funds, to develop more easily. Maybe that's the way, but there's no way to achieve anything by force.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52450	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52451	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Bunjac's when you spoke of fees, you said that in Sibenik-Knin County, compensations were raised three times under the pretext of economic recovery. There has indeed been an economic recovery in Sibenik-Knin County but the fees have been cut by 30% in 2015 and have not since been increased. Since I come from Sibenik-Knin County, I'd like to hear about the fees, whether there's been some mistake when you said or something else, since it would be good for your fellow MPs to know about it, as well as our citizens watching us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52452	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52453	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, I will gladly show you these data based on which I made these claims, they are normally publicly available and are not the fruit of my imagination. What I also mentioned is that you, as mayor of Vodice, had a salary at the height of the mayor of Zagreb, so at least they write official reports, so maybe when we share information I will show you the data based on which I made my claims, and you will tell me how it is possible that a city far away, far less than Zagreb, has the same salary as he. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52454	Thank you, too. Mr. Davor Lonchart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52455	Comrade Bunjac, this much hatred for the people who run the local administration I have never heard in my long-standing practice. Tragedy and grief that in the Croatian Parliament, I personally experience my fellow parliamentary representative as a longtime head of the municipality, such hatred that I do not know what to say. I'm joining my fellow Allen who says, it's amazing that we're being put in such a way that we're criminals, that people who don't know, and I'm responsibly saying there's no unit of local administration in Croatia that hasn't justified its existence. And there are a number of local administration units that have contributed very, very much to this country. And I really ask my colleague, Bunjec, that once if he wanted to, and last time I asked you to come visit my community to make sure of the fact that you're not just with me, because examples like... There are many, very many in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52456	Thank you. The answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52457	Thank you very much, Commissioner Loncar, for your kind invitation, and I hope to be in a position to answer it, I'd like to meet your community, see how you run it. But I don't know what hate you're talking about, criticism isn't hate, criticism is a constructive contribution. The opposition must exist, Mr. Lonchar. I know that Mr. Prelec is not your opposition, but here I am instead. And I'd like to tell you that when you talk about hate to go to your Mr. Mayor Tomasevic who when we had a stand of the Living Wall neatly reported he came to the stand, knocked him down, knocked him down, called us Yugoslavs, morons and jerks, and there was little missing to beat us even though the girls were there. You had an opportunity two years ago to react to the kind of primitive behavior of a mayor, be careful and nothing. But you see it all comes out on its own. The truth comes to its own. Can a bag of water be you, until it's broken? And everything comes out eventually. And hate and fight for your people. Well, that's how I believe that these words of ours, too, will be the best time to evaluate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52458	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of the goddess Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52459	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Comrade Bunjac, I have risen to replica in the last minute of your presentation. Namely, I've listened to your presentations that have been as specific to you as ever. I agree with some things. I don't agree with many. But what offered me a replica was your finding that people had enough units of local self-government. I don't really agree with that claim because I know it from talking to citizens. When asked what they got and what they get in their municipalities. Many will say, if you see what was done if we didn't have a community, it wouldn't have been, that grass wouldn't have been cut, that road wouldn't have been driven. It's all because we have a community. I suggest you ask people, say, in Selnica, Orehovica, Podturna, St. Yuri on Breg, Privšinci, ask them if you want to no longer have a municipality and do not pay your chief and your councilors. Everyone's gonna say no, we want the community, no matter what, we don't give ours, ask the other one next to her, let her be abolished, ours certainly doesn't. That there is a possibility that a more efficient administration should think about that, of joining some functions. Some municipalities have common communal directors, common agricultural directors, they have already introduced themselves, and in this direction we need to think, not in the removal of municipalities. Because all citizens believe that they are winning when they have earned the right to their community and what they are accomplishing in their municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52460	Thank you. My colleague Bunjca's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52461	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, at least for your constructive contribution to my debate. Unfortunately, I can't agree with this part that the municipalities are a guarantee of the development of an end. Because if that were true, then there should actually be at least 5,000 more municipalities in Croatia. For therefore no village shall have weed cut, no village shall have a playground, no village shall have a sidewalk, unless it is the center of a municipality. So I guess that just doesn't stand. As I said before, in many past periods, here in Međimurje were two municipalities of Čakovec and Prelog, was everything working? Did people get electricity? Did people get the road? Did they get the sewer? Did they get the phones? They got it all. And so it's not about how many units of local self-government there are but it's about efficiency and so it's about good governance. And we're just at the level of that local self-government, we're having a crisis of governance, a crisis of governance, and that's at all levels. This management crisis is unfortunately also felt in the government. We have capable people, but unfortunately these capable people can't come to terms, they're completely poor criteria, poor electoral legislation, competitions are farces, and then eventually you have what you have, that units of local self-government are in charge of more than they have income. And I'm asking you now, have any local administration leaders ever been responsible for that crime? And I think he should have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52462	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the sea replica will be on the trail of the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash as I come from Zagreb as well. So you also mentioned the council fees in the city of Zagreb, 218 local committees, I said on many occasions that these 26 million kunas are allocated annually to local committee councils, so that it could be spent better because in Zagreb we have schools that leak, kindergartens where the pedagogical standard is not respected. But I would agree with Mrs. Dark-Taritash that there is a problem and decision-making. I'll tell you a benign example, I live in the Spanish village, it's your village, the westernmost part of the city of Zagreb and now there's a parking charge,... the time from the centre of Zagreb and the local board, so the council members living in the building do not decide on a simple parking watch that the mayor Bandic actually introduces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's about an eclatant example, that these people who are well paid for these fees don't decide anything, and that's the problem with decision-making. Another specificity of the City of Zagreb is that city council members who are on school boards also receive fees in the City of Zagreb after the meeting. So they're actually paid triple. Most of them are employed in Holding or some state-owned enterprises, then receive a fee in city quarter councils and still receive compensation because they are in administrative councils, kindergartens and school holidays. And then a normal citizen who controls in settlements, who barely ends up having an aversion to politics, both to politicians and to elections when you see what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52464	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52465	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You are indeed, that honorable exception that had in its program the idea of you being abolished, of focusing on the benefit of the citizen and on that side of your honor. I hope that in some next election cycle you will achieve a better result if it remains on the trail of these ideas. And as for these councilmen we have 9,000, so look at the picture of this House, look how much this session costs, and look how many people are here right now. And the same picture is on these local boards and in these municipal councils and this, many people don't come to these sessions, many people when they come to talk on the phone, or they force some of their private interests. There are very few people who sincerely want to work for the benefit of citizens, and there are very deep causes and can't be solved by any law of this kind that we have now received in the House. Once again, the crisis is managed by all levels, moving from electoral legislation, and then beyond that local self-government, the elections, for local elections, and then further through competitions which, as normal and normal, end up getting very weak results. If the criteria of excellence were introduced, I believe that the level of governance in Croatia would rise by a minimum of 30%, and hence GDP growth and income growth and the rise of optimists among Croatian citizens. With this approach, with the kind of lethargy we see in most MPs, I'm afraid this situation won't change for at least 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52466	Thank you very much. We will now continue to discuss the point we discussed, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the distinguished representative of Bozica Makar will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the proposings, colleagues and colleagues. I must express my satisfaction in front of the HNS Club that we are finally discussing the Proposal for a Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. The HNS has already referred to the parliamentary procedure of two Proposals for a Law on the financing of local self-government units. They may not be this elaborate, but they were good to us and they were good to change something because obviously, there were 13 amendments to this law that we were not satisfied with. There have been various attempts at repairing the law, trying to be more equal to all units of local self-government, but we have failed to achieve any satisfactory results. Here in this House we all keep saying that we stand for even development. Is this enough, it certainly isn't, but it is a step towards this development of our Croatia being even, and that is exactly what we all talk about and what we want. Under the current law, we have a situation that income tax, which we are talking about at the very most in this law and, although it is not the only income of local self-government units, is being allocated to municipalities with 60%, County 16.5, share for centralized functions 6%, equalisation 16% and assistance for EU projects 1.5%. However, out of 556 units of local self-government, this income is allocated from taxes and income cuts to only 207 units. 264 is deployed in another way, because it is from assisted areas, in 34 again in another way, because it is mountainous mountainous areas and we have 50 units that belong to local self-government units on the islands. The problem that's here is that we'll never be satisfied, but that we should go solve it, we should. We have areas where a really large number of people live, but the tax and income tax is very low. It is small because it is a labour intensive industry, where wages are low and where incomes from taxes and cuts cannot satisfy the basic functions that local self-government units need to provide. And units of local self-government just exist for this reason, to ensure basic and public functions to their citizens. So something needs to change. We have a large number of residents, who also require high costs, and here the situation that incomes are small and that no units of local self-government can be helped. We were also dissatisfied with the criteria by which the development index was established. Now, here's the Regional Development Ministry making a new proposal for indexation, I haven't had a chance to see it yet, but we'll probably be able to discuss it soon. And what do we find very important in this law? We think it's important that no one loses anything. Everybody wins. But like I said, someone more, someone less, someone will stay on the same thing. But again, there will be a fairer distribution and the possibility of uniform development. Now we have huge differences. We have differences, that we have municipalities below 500 kn of income, and we have really underdeveloped, thinks no one is against the developed ones. However, we should all strive to be that, but because of objective circumstances, as I have stated before, some times this is not possible. So now we have municipalities where the difference is almost 29%, out of 5.6 cities, county 3.6. The new differences should not be larger in municipalities 3.2 2.4 and 1.9. In order to determine these criteria and these parameters, we have the capacity to achieve the tax revenue that has been taken and where the new municipalities should now have 1925 kn per capita, towns 2583 kuna, or county 319 kn. It may not be a bad thing to consider, and what would be gained is to stimulate the merger of units of local self - government, or in their favor, an additional percentage that would increase there. That's what we suggested in one of our draft laws, but that's all to consider and see, because this is the law in the first reading. We have what was already there and we say how this calculation will be done, that the average is taken in 2012-2016, so in 5 years we have income from taxes and income cuts, so that we know that certain units of local self-government have not had a cut, and then it is taken as if they could have introduced up to a maximum rate and this calculation and is subtracted from the difference in the reference value of capacity, that is the same five-year average, the difference between all the municipalities that are or the cities that are in that part. In fact, this 1925 kn was calculated, when 50% of the average was further increased in municipalities. According to the new division, it is proposed to make it simpler, more understandable and what I am constantly stressing more just division, which is the share of local self-government units, of 60%, county 17, decentralised functions 6 and fiscal alignment 17. So the assessment is that the 1.4 billion kuna circus will benefit units of local and regional self-government. Furthermore, we have 1.6 billion kunas left to units of local and regional self-government for decentralised functions, and that is what we have often looked at and to a minimum standard. So that we all in Croatia have that guaranteed minimum standard. We have heard that even this part of the interest that is not insignificant, 370,000 kn, goes from tax and cut to that fund, i.e., to units of local self-government. And as I've already said, there's no ideal situation. He'll always be satisfied and less content. All the problems with this law will not be solved. Surely it is necessary to help and see that this development is also a way throughout Croatia. Other measures should be taken, however, to see what funds are, and this law is also about first reading. There have been various discussions, there have been proposals, there have been proposals that have been accepted in public consultation, some have been accepted, many have been rejected. However, it may be necessary to see what was much, and that is to determine the average fiscal capacity for five years in units in mountainous mountainous areas. In fact, there are very, very large oscillations, and it is very important that the average is taken, or which years are entered into that average. So maybe there's some more simulations to be made and see if there's anything else that might be done in that part to make this calculation as fair as possible. In front of the HNS Club, I have to say once again that we're going to definitely encourage this law in our first reading, but we'd better see some more of this stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52469	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52470	Here, dear colleague Makar, at the end of your presentation, you said that you yourself are aware that there will be those who will be more satisfied and those who will be less content. But I would recommend that I hold that the fundamental question to which we should be given the answer, and we never discuss the effects and effects of applying the law in ten years when each bill is proposed. We have no concrete indicators, every year to two days the laws change. In units of local self-government when considering capital and important strategic projects, it requires significant financial resources, and we do not have simple stability and security as to what the total revenue will be. In addition to the effects and effects for the next ten years, I am exclusively interested in full and comprehensive long-term solutions. In fact, I'm going to mention, which I'm sorry isn't announcing what parallel to this bill should be the proposal for a law on state property management. We all mention that someone will win, someone will lose, and what will be the result of the Bill on State Property Management? Will he contribute to the stability of the budget of local self-government units? Will it strengthen the budgets or help those who lose or weaken these amendments to the law? That's basic questions. We must view these laws as combined vessels, and this translated means that we have neither comprehensive nor complete nor long-term solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52471	Thank you very much. The answer of the honourable representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52472	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, dear colleague, I'd also like to see what these projections are and what ten years are. However, our units of local self-government are in such a situation that the survival of this year or next year is at stake. You yourself are aware of the reductions in income resulting from the tax reform that we had before, so what we did with 1.1.2017. I believe that this is the beginning of the settlement and that this is just something that leads to me being able to begin to realize and solve other things. And I am sure that the Bill on State Property Management will be in front of us very quickly in the debate in this House and that we will also be able to look at other aspects that are very important for the planning and development of units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52473	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Allen Prelec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52474	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues, even though there are few of us. I can see that this topic is really very interesting and unlike the first part of the day when we were politicizing and when we talked about some topics that aren't this current, they're not living here I'm glad this debate, although occasionally there was a little more sentiment in all of this together. The fact is, we can talk about whether we need so many units of local self-government. We can say there's someone clear for, someone against, surely we'll never agree that there's too much or too little of us. The fact that we need to start reforming the units of local self-government in which this is going, this should be one of the topics that we're going to be talking about for a long, long time. I will read a basic principle which is the European Charter of Local Self-Government just to know why there is a unit of local self-government. The European Charter of Local Self-Government and the principle of subsidiarity speak of "the units of local self-government as the first place for residents to meet their own needs and which is why they must ensure a quality of life for citizens. So far, local self-government funding policy has gone in the direction of depopulation and the departure of the rural population as well as the centralisation of the state. The new law must decentralise the state in a way that has been done in Western European countries, thus encouraging the development of rural areas or preventing the pressure of residents to large cities." Now we're talking about decentralisation and whether we need local self-government units or not. For those of you who are here, it's probably clear to most of us how much we need and whether we need it, but for those of you who may be looking at us, it's not up there for hours now. And I'll start with the following things, compare the revenues of the central state and local units. The state budget has a revenue of 116 billion kuna and all of it, units of local self-government, means counties, cities, municipalities have 22 billion kuna. So that's 16% of the total income of the central state. 16%. What's next? What I've done once and for all, and I'm sorry that I can't make a presentation that everyone can actually see what this is about, the state of these 116 billion kunas for wages is 22%. Or 25 billion and units of local self-government amount to 22 billion, 2.1 billion for their salaries. That's the answer when we say that the units of local self-government are expensive, so we're talking about 10% of the total income of the local self-government unit set aside for wages. When we talk about units of local self-government, cities, municipalities, we need to know that in this budget of 22 billion kuna there is a budget of the city of Zagreb with 6.8 billion kuna, meaning 1/3 of the total budget of the units of local self-government is exclusively for the city of Zagreb. This is something we do not need to interfere with, and when we talk about a developed European state then we can say how much developed European countries spend on local budgets. Here I have the data here, Denmark spent 57% of the total state funds at local level in 2001 and increased in 2010 to 66% of the funds. 66% of the total assets in the country go to local units. Can we say that Denmark is a poor country? I don't think so. We have a lot of examples like that. Belgium 38%, Sweden 48% of all assets in the state go to local self-government units. I think that if Croatia wants to be a better, better quality state, that our residents live better, that's what we need to increase resources to local self-government units. Whether this law will regulate it, we'll see, the good intention is in any case, and I think this debate is going in that direction, we all have good intentions and we want citizens to live better. And when we talk about local self-government units having 16% of the resources in Croatia, and what part of a better life, we call it, is being solved by local self-government units? Gardens, schools, infrastructure means water, gas, sewers. Nogostairs, roads. Partly and socially, fire department. Parks, arrangements, transportation, club care, CUDs. Now I'm telling those who actually know a lot about it. So we're talking about if we want people to live better, we need to decentralize the state, transfer it by me and jurisdiction to local self-government units, but also funds. In Croatia, 16% of the total budget, the state budget is used by local self-government units and the rest of the states. I've told you an example of European countries that single out up to 68% of the funds for local self-government units. We are also talking about the uniformity of the development of Croatia as a whole. I'll just tell you a few details. It says this, from the first 20 municipalities with the largest income per capita, that 19 thousand kuna, Vir, up to 8 239 kuna, Rogoznica, all except one Plitvice Lakes, are located by the sea. And out of the ten poorest municipalities, with income per capita lower than a thousand kunas, are those who are not by the sea. Of the first 20 towns with the largest walk per capita, most of them are located by the sea except Vrlika, Lipik, Pazin and Zagreb. 20 of them. And of the ten poorest cities, with an income of less than 2 thousand kuna per capita, they are all on land. The difference in total walkings of the municipality is very, very large. So are the cities. So if we want to develop Croatia evenly, we have to take care of it. Islands are a special example. We're talking about this new law that islands are going to lose a very large part of their income. The proposal for a new law, municipalities and cities on the islands abolished 16% of income tax, financing capital and development projects on islands for years. This is the situation for most units of local self-government on the islands, the compensatory measures provided for by the new law, will be less than the funds we have so far available or will not be available at all. Of course it is necessary to secure the means for even development but it should go to the burden of the central state rather than to be paid out of the original incomes of local self-government. I'll say one more thing why this law isn't good. Actually, I'm not gonna say he's not good. He needs to be fixed. There's this good stuff, I said at the beginning, it's very simple, we only have 4 items to calculate, but it's not fair. The distribution of local self-government units 60%, county 17%, share for decentralised functions 6% and part for fiscal balancing 17%. Now, here's the deal. Who's going to get that 17%? They'll get the ones that are below the reference values. We have benchmarks for municipalities and cities. I think the municipalities shouldn't have such a lower reference value than the cities because the municipalities have 1,924 and the cities of 2 583 can't be that big a difference. I know that a colleague of the Hrg who is no longer here, spoke of cities having some other jurisdiction, have a social life that uses municipalities. My opinion is that it's one too many differences. Second, it makes a very big difference, because it's the capacity of the revenue achieved. We only took income tax under the reference value of the capacity of the passing achieved. Now, let me give you an example, it's about two municipalities in Croatia. It's two municipalities on the sea where, one I called the municipality of Yellow, and the other the municipality white. The municipality of Yellow has an income of 86 million kuna and income tax of 3.9 million kuna. The communal contributions and fees are 45 million kuna. And based on that calculation, they're going to get, an additional 1.82 million kuna. We have the White Community, I called it white, they're real municipalities, but don't know, we don't play by names. This municipality has a income of 12 million kuna, a income tax of 2.5 million kuna and a municipal contribution of 4.8 million kuna and it will receive additional funding from the state budget for only 771000 kuna. That's what I'm saying about injustice. We should also include actual revenues, concrete revenues, not only income tax, but also communal compensation, which was constant. Maybe even a residence tax, maybe... If that's the way it's gonna be. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Maybe a communal contribution. It means we have a real reference value. Because here, in the example of these two municipalities, one that has 86 million total revenues will get 1.82 million kuna, and one that has 12 million kuna, will only get 770000 kn. If we want to even Croatia, we must take care of it and it is my suggestion that we must simply include for this reference amount other incomes that the units of local self-government have, constant incomes. And communal fees and taxes on vacations, which is an extremely large income from some units of local self-government. Furthermore, compensatory measures, we are talking about that compensation measures are a good government move which in this year, we have fully received the same revenue as in 2016. It is not good that in 2019, these compensatory measures will be only 50% of those revenues we lost. And in 2020, there will be no more compensatory measures... Not a single kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think some municipalities in 2020 will have less income than in 2016. God forbid I'm wrong, and that's not the case, but here are some indicators just going that way. Furthermore, we only bind ourselves in this tax law to income tax revenues. The trend is in Europe, and I see with us that tax burdens are reduced especially to work. And it will automatically bring about that the local self-government unit will eventually have even less tax revenue. Even less tax revenues. Then will we constantly change the laws and try to make up for the units of local self-government what will be lost over time. Well, here's another maybe digression in all this together, I'd be glad to include more actively in this association of cities, associations of municipalities, if maybe it would take a while to have a discussion, well this is the first reading, I hope we'll also honor this second reading with some suggestions that were here specifically. My colleague Hrg said the same thing about firepower, let's consider this situation, related to perhaps not just calculating the reference value on income tax. And that we will pass you one law that will go towards the improvement of all units of local self-government. I have set an example of how many units of local self-government in Europe have revenues, how much is the percentage of the total income of the state, and then we will have one good law. At this point, I don't think he's that good, that we should work on him, that we should also listen to associations of cities and associations of municipalities and all of us who here know something about local self-government units, and then that law will be tailored to our citizens. And I think the units of local self-government depend exactly on better life in Croatia. Local units, there are no Croatian citizens who are not in any of the local self-government units, none. We're all part of the local self-government unit. And more than once, citizens and those who don't know how it all works, they know how to talk, we don't need municipalities, we don't need cities, we're gonna do it ourselves. I didn't hear that, I didn't hear that. In France, I don't know, if you know, there are 36,000 units of local self-government. We probably don't need 36,000 at all, but we can tell if we have enough 550, more or less. But clearly this is about each other's debate, and I think we're going to go in this direction constructively with our proposals, whether we need more, less, units of local self-government, whether we need to reform the units of local self-government. It's a topic for another debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52475	Thank you very much. And on your show, there's a whole series of replicas, so let's take it in a row. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Giovanni Sponze. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52476	Mr. Prelec, I answered the line not to rephrase you, but to tell you that you had a great debate and that you had guessed the very essence and content of this bill, and you set a plastic and content example. You did in your opening part of the comparison between the units of local self-government and the state regarding the budget, as far as wages are concerned, it wouldn't be worse to insert all together and the data of total responsibility, which is the unit of local self-government, which is the state level, but also the total number of employees. At that time, we could correctly and specifically discuss both the number of municipalities and the number of cities, as well as the need to reform the state administration. You mentioned the word decentralisation. To begin with, it will personally be enough for me to acknowledge one and the other that, in the past composition of the Government, we have missed the chance in 4 years to do something concrete in the field of really essential, content, functional and financial decentralisation. I'm gonna stop at that, and I'm just gonna show you why it's important. We don't have enough money in spite of the strong PR, and we're drawing too little money from the eu funds, we're missing opportunities. We've agreed that we're undermining our commitment, financial payments, and simply by decentralisation, with stronger financial donations to local self-government units, we'd create capacity to prepare quality projects and withdraw important money, and when we talk about what some of them talked about local self-government units before, it's not the Mercedes people, you said it well, it's the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The factor of failure is human, the key to success is human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52477	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Prevec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52478	Thank you. My colleague Sponza, well, here's what I've been trying to do in the debate. I've been trying to build as little emotion as possible than to say what's in fact. That's the name that tells locals too much to spend. I've shown in a concrete example how many units local self-government spend, 16% of the budget. Of those 16%, I don't know if everyone heard me, 16.9 billion or almost a third is the city of Zagreb. So let's look at the situation in local self-government units and make a really good proposal in the future because that's going to wait for us too, reform. In this reform we don't have to talk about any more or less, let's look at every unit of local self-government and know what we're doing. I know that the number of 550 units of local self-government and 550 mayors is one very large figure, but let's go to the depths, whether we need it or not. Ask that grandmother who lives somewhere in Lica, who has to go 10 kilometers to ask her chief why some maybe banal thing, why that street isn't paved or why that grab isn't cleaned up. It's going 10 kilometers. If we're going to... having 10 and 100 units of local self-government then will never reach its chief, that's the point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if we're talking about decentralisation, then we can't say we want to decentralisation Croatia, but we're going to end 200 units of local self-government. It just doesn't go with each other. And what you said, we missed our chance, maybe in those four years, I admit it. Here you are sitting here, I've been sitting, it's our government, and I don't care who the government is, who the Prime Minister is, who the minister is. Is this one here if he's good, I'll say he's good, if he was bad before, I'll say he was bad. Let's let go of politics, these are vital things. It's vital and I think we'll all agree here, both the mayors and the mayors around the unique attitude. And there's not what I'm getting close to HDZ,... Dear colleague Bunjac, I criticize what is not good, and what is good is good for all of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52479	Thank you very much. The next replica is an esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52480	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is often debated here about the distribution of money, or it is the phenomenal level, taxes, and which tax money will go to. However, regardless of the country's largest taxes, the state remains in enormous losses, there are enormous deficits, in debts are not only the state itself but local self-government units and the question is whether the solution at the level of the distribution of funds is a transfer from hollow to empty, additional tax increase, etc. Or is it possible that the solution, or should we say, is the cause of squandering and all these debts, in a failed monetary policy? I argue that the cause of all the problems related to money, the wrong role of the central bank, which is currently a currency exchanger, and that this problem cannot be solved by any changes to the IRS or I don't know about local administration, etc. Because the girl in this system is not the result of a failed tax policy but of a missed monetary policy. Unfortunately, there is no will in this House to ask the question of the regularity of our monetary policy, instead we Plenkovic and the team around him headed by Miss Dalic, who came to us here from the IMF, are planning to introduce the euro and, in fact, their goal is to cement the current situation rather than change it. Unfortunately, that's not being discussed, the decision has been made by the HDZ summit, who asked us here, no one, and I'm simply bitter and disgusted by such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52481	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52482	Comrade Pernar, I will not talk about the state because this is a topic exclusively of local self-government. But you've made one comparison of the state's unit of local self-government. Well, I believe you don't know anything about local self-government units, so I'll tell you. The state may live on debt because if the finance minister has 100 billion passes, he can spend 105 billion. That's what happened. But in the units of local self-government, no mayor or mayor can have a walk of 100 million and spend 101 million because they'll end up in Remetic, and you need to know that. So that's the difference. We all the mayors, the mayors, have fiscal responsibility and we can't spend more than we've earned. That's the basic difference and I'm saying, and it was my duty to tell you and to know that it's something else when you say we live on debt. Local self-government units may have some kind of credit burden, clearly depends on how, for some capital projects, it's mostly that, but we can't say that they live on debt and spend more than they earn, they don't spend.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52483	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Prelec, you have found it interesting to compare the functioning of a decentralised state as opposed to us who are an absolutely centralized state. In a decentralised state, most of the funds, money and everything ends up in local administration units and self-government. And in principle, the development of this country is carried by local administrations and self-government units. What we have as a problem that we have, we want to admit it to ourselves or not a certain number of units of local self-government and administration that could not survive without the help of the state. And then we translate, as I have already said from hollow to empty, we take those who develop and who can move forward, we take them and we take away their chances that they can move on, to help further those who don't stand a chance. And all the time we've been trying to maintain a system that actually has no chance of survival in the long run. And I personally think it's only a matter of time before finally one policy and one assembly of the Parliament agree that we have to do something about it. And to say that there is, I'm now Caricing 350 units of local administrations and self-government that, by some criteria, really need to exist, but there are 200 of them that we have to sort of deal with and do something about it. And that's how you start solving problems. Because I am deeply convinced that if we now decentralised Croatia with some theoretical procedure that would not work at all in Croatia. So to decentralize the state then you'd start from the bottom, you have to have people down there who can absorb all that money and projects and everything else. We don't have it today, so we're conducting everything from the top, which is also a failure. Because I think it's a mistake for the government to decide whether a school should be upgraded somewhere and not have to be upgraded to some school. I think there really needs to go low enough in local administration and self-government units. And I think as long as we keep quiet about it sooner or later, one policy will decide that this system has to start changing. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52485	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grosdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52486	Dear colleague Prelec, you mentioned why the capacity of the total tax revenue is not calculated. So here's only income tax where you could calculate what the maximum amount of income tax is in terms of rates and interest rates. Tax from the holiday home could also be taken into the account because it is tax and it is known to be 15 kuna per square cent. But when you mention why you don't take communal fees and contributions, first of all, it's not tax, it's taxes that are both intended and second, at least communal fees in most parts. Therefore, we also know that we do not have the maximum value of municipal fees and contributions because they are determined by the city council or municipal councils. So the communal point is the one that determines the same local body, the representative body, and then multiplys it by the coefficient of space, the coefficient of the local committee, etc. So it's very difficult if it were to go into calculating such benchmarks then we would have to have parameters from to maximum that could then be calculated in such a way but we don't have them, we don't have laws passed. Therefore, in this way, neither can capacity be measured by these values, except I say with this tax. That's where all taxes can be calculated and these can't be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52487	The answer of the esteemed representative of Prevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52488	We colleagues make laws, so we can adapt laws that we think are good. So I was talking about that tax revenues shouldn't be reference rates. Because I think the total incomes of local self-government units are also income taxes but also some constant incomes, these are utility fees, house taxes and residence taxes. And now you have municipalities that have extremely large incomes other than income tax and small incomes are from income tax, 5 to 10%. Here's my unit of local self-government with 50% or over 50% income from income tax. And the vast majority of local self-government units have exactly a huge income from income tax. And some units have a tax, i.e. a communal fee extremely large and it is not counted as a reference rate. And they're going to get a huge amount from the state to settle. I didn't give a line to my colleague Bačić, and here I was late to pick up. All I'm going to say is that in Europe, development is going from the bottom up, and that's what I was saying, how many units of local self-government there are, I don't know, France. And now I'm going to tell you that we know, here's Austria has 2357 municipalities, Hungary has 3177 municipalities, France, that's what I said 36,000 municipalities. But not only do they have such a large number of municipalities, but they also have a large percentage that stands out for local self-government units. Here's the highest percentage of Denmark 66%, Sweden, 48%. And you know who has the smallest percentage? Greece, 6.6%. Are we going to be Greece or are we going to be Sweden or Denmark? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52489	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52490	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Prelec, I will again, for example, take my municipality, best of all, you know, with us is the biggest income from renting agricultural land. It's the biggest income, it's more expensive together than the communal fee and the income tax. You said right now in your debate, this tax if we look for ourselves, besides how the ministry was fenced when it said that this law has no tendency to encourage regional development and demographic renewal, then it's a good law. However, in the context of what you said, if we take all income from the local self-government unit, then this does not stand out as it says in the explanation, this distribution of income from income tax will reduce the inequality of the fiscal capacity of units of local and regional self-government, which will allow evenly ensuring income for the implementation of their laws prescribed... That doesn't stand if we're watching this part as you said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that may be the biggest flaw of this law. And I agree with you, all politics is ultimately local. People go to schools in their place, go to a health home in their place, municipality and city, go to a county hospital, everything happens there. The state shouldn't be afraid to say this regionalization and localization because it says a good manager is the one who knows his functions, puts his obligations down to a lower level, so the state should, so let the city finance its own policeman if necessary. He'll be better, he'll be a better cop, he won't punish a man who's never had a drink, so he drank him once, so he accidentally caught him. The state shouldn't be afraid to let as many powers as possible on local self-government units, municipalities and cities, so of course it should... those 116 billion should bring something down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52491	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52492	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I didn't mean all the revenues, I'm talking about those constant incomes that are the same from year to year, so that wouldn't even include a municipal contribution if we had legalization now, so we had extremely large municipal contributions, so they're now shrinking, and especially not likely revenue from concessions. I wish we could talk about it here if we weren't really looking at each of our municipalities, and every single city of our own would be correct. I won't get anything but I'm not fighting for my community literally, here you would agree right away if my community didn't get anything but that some units of local self-government that are really in an extremely bad situation is what a leader with a million or two million kunas can do? That leader can't do anything for a better life in his local self-government unit, nothing. Can he build a kindergarten, a school of anything, can he even compete towards European funds? People can't do it either, they don't have capacity or they don't have quality people, but they don't have the 10% or I don't know the 20% that should be given to get European funding. So we need to talk about that if we want to decentralised Croatia a simple and even development of Croatia that we need to help those small, those who have little opportunities to simply be one Croatia according to man. And then we will get that not everyone will come to Zagreb but it will be good to live both in Lika and Slavonia and in Zagorje and in the islands, we will get it, not that every year the number of people in Zagreb increases, which I have no objection to but let it be because of birth, but not because of the emigration of people from areas where they don't have schools and kindergartens. So we need decentralisation, but we also need fiscal decentralisation so that the mayors and mayors can provide a better life for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52493	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52494	Thank you very much. My colleague Prelec, here I am if I were the head of Brdovec Municipality, I would support this law because he is kindly looking at that municipality and he is positive. Secondly, speaking of the island, we repeat once again, no one on the islands loses anything, not because there is a compensation fund that will satisfy these 20 million kunas that are reduced in view of those 16% that no longer count. So we have on the islands of 30 municipalities that are supposed to lose that 20 million, and there are 20 that will get more, and all together no one will lose because they no longer have that special account that has been abolished, so he went to the treasury with those 16% for capital projects will continue to get into his budget. So they have at least the same amount of money as in 2017 and let's not tell the truth, here's really asking that we don't tell the truth. Second of all, there's been a lot of discussion here about other taxes and fees. We know what goes into local taxes, income tax, holiday tax, consumption tax and public tax are local taxes that are moderated by the commissioners with their representative bodies. But what are they doing? They want to be smarter too, so they don't want to make a decision that will introduce, say, income tax cuts because it might be negative for him as mayor, but there are a lot of local self-governments they've made. And then they say it's our country's fault because we don't want to do it like we don't know the holiday tax, so we can stretch the maximums and the minimums or everything else and then we throw it in and say the state's guilty. It's not in that case it's not. But if the state leaves us with a full income tax, that should be welcomed, that's the first time we've had this country. I don't know why we should be against it. And as it will be distributed, again those who have been and had a lot will still have what they have so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52495	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52496	My colleague, Boric, I agree that this income tax that goes to local self-government units is a good thing, but I disagree with that distribution of 16% that is to be settled, I disagree with it because I don't think they're fair and as far as the city and the municipality are concerned, if we don't have the same reference rate, and as far as I'm concerned, what I've said many times today, we can't just take for the income tax reference rate because it's not realistic. There are units of local self-government that have far greater communal income tax compensation. And when we talk about islands, you have your theory, I think those islands will lose. Time will show whether it gets or won't, but I get a lot of emails and phone calls I do with the chiefs who are on the islands and they claim to lose. Here I am not an islander, but I'm just talking about the leaders who talk about it, and I was just trying to pass on these cries to allow them to have at least the same status as they used to have because they could use those funds that they were getting to build kindergartens, schools and everything that was needed for the islanders without people leaving the island, and that's what's happening to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52497	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52498	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Prelec, before each election, a rather large debate is being held whether the mayors or mayors should be parliamentary representatives. Well, there are a lot of people who don't think they should be, that they don't need each other, I don't care if I've never been in that function, I think they should, and you've shown by your exposure today why that is. So there's a series of legal proposals that really someone who's in charge of the executive or mayor, understands, understands, understands, understands, because he applies it to his space, to his municipality, to his city and in the context of that I think it's extremely important what you said, which somehow went under the radar. We all in Europe and in Croatia want to cheap the work. To make the work cheaper, we also want to cut certain taxes. I've said to these taxes several times and everyone else that we need to have systematic measures, tax cuts, income tax cuts, which means a reduction in the resources that local self-government units will receive. And that's what we have to take care of. What exactly am I trying to say? We now have a proposal for a law that is relatively simple, relatively clear, caused quite a discussion because the topic it encourages is great, but it is only one drop in the sea of problems we have. We're going to solve one problem but we're not going to solve the problem systematically, there's not a single law where at least someone from the pay phone doesn't talk about decentralisation, about the importance of decentralisation. If you decentralize the business without decentralising the funds, creating and having a constant flow and knowing what would happen in 5 or 10 years of this centralisation in Croatia, I'm sure it won't be real.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52499	The answer of the distinguished representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52500	I agree entirely with that other part, dear colleague Anka, and the first part clearly that I am subjective. I think what the mayors and mayors in the Parliament are doing is fine. We know the specific things that torture us in local self-government units and we can specifically talk about some law. Anyway, a lot of people resent that we're out here in the Parliament, so here's the mayors and mayors can't get out, those who live in their cities and municipalities can't walk down the street so the citizens don't ask them why it's like this or why it's like that. And in any case, I think we have practice and we can do positive examples and there are negative ones to go towards making better laws, having that touch with our citizens, and that's what's important for the Croatian Parliament, when we make laws to bring them into the interest of citizens. If we're going to sit in Parliament alone and not go out, which I don't think you're going out, that you're not in the field, but I'm saying, literally, the mayors and the mayors are directly in contact with the citizens, that's what we want to have representatives in the Parliament who are going to represent what our citizens want. And they do. And that's us, the mayors and the mayors. But I'm saying, the topic of whether we should sit here and in cities and municipalities, clearly that requires a much greater effort, it's hard to be in one place and another, there's this same clear argument that maybe we're not doing a good enough job both this and that. Someone may be trying a little harder, someone trying a little less, it's a topic of discussion, but I think that with regard to direct contact with citizens, there's no better example than when the mayors and mayors are the ones who pass the law in the House and they talk to their citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52501	Thank you very much. We will now move to the club of GLASS and HSU representatives in the name of which the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52502	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government and you get one bill of law going in all readings, the relative law very clear, there are several norms but you have the opportunity to see that we are actually talking about it all day long or after noon. And why is that? I'm actually thinking, and when I think about it, I'm thinking about it in pictures, so imagine a picture of a big dam that's behind it is a big accumulating lake, and that dam has a series of cracks, and through that crack, let's say, a leak of water, and now you know that you have to take care of something, and now you're sorting that hole into a hole because if you don't, there goes the dam and all together. And one of those resolutions is this law. And this law is one of those resolutions, the resolution of the problem that we have and the problem that we're having and that we're talking from this pay phone a few times, every time we're all advocating decentralisation, but basically from real decentralisation, we're very far away. We're very far away for a few reasons. We're ready to decentralize our jobs and we don't have any reservations here, we recently had the Animal Protection Act, so we've given the dead cold communal directors and municipalities the obligations they have, and every time we don't know what we're going to do, we make a commitment to the municipalities without paying attention because they have enough resources to make it happen. Likewise, when we transfer funds to municipalities or cities, then we do one more thing, we prescribe exactly how these funds should be used. It's usually called a flow water heater. You charge a water heater, you say exactly what it's supposed to be for, the way it's coming in, the way it's coming out, and you're all calm. And we write the same reasoning of this law that of the 556 municipalities and cities we have 207 who are financially willing to fight all their obligations and all these other 556 municipalities are not ready. And we also like to talk about situations like that to whom, at which point it suits. I usually like to talk about Denmark. Denmark is one country, which is, for example, the number of inhabitants near Croatia, by the number of municipalities and cities near Croatia, but counterpart Prelec spoke about funds decentralised in Denmark, so I think it is about 60% of the funds. Here's exactly 66. And then when you have the resources you can manage because most of our municipalities and cities with the resources they have, they can manage to a small extent. They have the default which and how and the default what to do with them. Similarly, when you read the objectives in this law, it says that it is within other legislation to encourage regional development and demographic renewal. When, I will return to the planning profession, which is a basic profession in May, there is not a single strategic document, there is not a single spatial plan of a higher level that does not speak, we need to develop polytricity, we need to develop systems where from large cities it expands further and in Croatia there is one island that is the largest island and this is the city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is the largest island in the sense that the island does not function with its surroundings but has its sea around it, so it has to be in a different way because the city of Zagreb is not too excited about the distribution of these funds, the city of Zagreb is not too excited about what will be with the European Union funds because the city of Zagreb works for itself. In terms of politic development, the city of Zagreb also does not function with its backdrop in terms of encouraging development, the city of Zagreb does not function. And what exactly do you say? You have in the debate a law that is, which solves a little problem but we here are really through the debate talking about a fundamental problem. Our citizens are fulfilling their interests in their community. He will come to his municipality, he will also meet his social needs, he will also meet the problem when they need to be paved by the road and the problem they have when the public debate doesn't work and all the other problems they have both the municipalities and the place where they meet it and where they can solve it. And of these 556 municipalities, I will speak now of 555, I will exclude the city of Zagreb is 555 different. And when we talk about sustainable development and when we talk about Croatia's development, what the central government does, the state needs to make sure that at least how many of the same conditions children have in all 555 municipalities and cities and they don't have it. And a lot more water will pass under the Sava Bridge before it has. They don't have a number of reasons. They have the same thing, they have the same cell phones, no matter where they live. However, they have children who still walk to their school and where school is even a problem heating up children who say that school is their normal thing at all. These kids live in a country that has 4.5 million residents when we get along a little bit because there's about 4 million and 300 of us all go to primary school, have about the same textbooks, the same programs at all, but they don't have the same conditions. And while the same conditions will be difficult to achieve will still take a long time to achieve but I'm sure this is also a place where with our knowledge, experience, we need to influence by acting that our children have at least the same conditions in kindergartens, in primary schools and beyond high school education is certainly another topic. That's why I and this law and the debate on this law are reading in a way that we're all somehow on the trail that something with a whole topic of local, regional self-government should be done, that we're all in a certain way whether someone's the mayor or the mayor or on the side of it is looking at there's one particular dissatisfaction. Equally not long ago, and from this pay phone we were still talking about reforms so we were all full of the mouth of reform, we didn't make any of these reforms, but I'm sure that something we need to take care of, we need to take care of how to enable sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. This sustainable development can be made equally if the conditions in which people live and work are approximately the same. I don't know if anyone's in the replica or even speaking at all said, we're going to open an economic zone, somebody's going to come in there, and they're going to build a factory, and we're not going to have anyone to hire. We're not gonna have anyone to hire because we don't have people who work and we don't have people who are educated for that job. So we have in the debate a relatively simple law. With the law we can be satisfied more or less but a law that opens up a series of topics. One of the basic topics is the real sustainable development of Croatia. Sustainable development can only be seen through municipalities and cities. I don't like that mouth of mine a couple of times, and I don't like that mouth of mine, you're praising me, it never ends well. But in this country, however, there was one reform, and I can call it reform now, regardless, it will eventually, and when it comes to ending well, and that was your topic of legalization. And then in that legalization was the subject of income that they got. And then it was distributed that my current mind, maybe the distribution would be something different but the good and the distribution was in a way that some of those funds were going, they were decentralised, part of the funds, part of the funds went exclusively for the office's work. This means the people who were employed in the offices to legalize them you paid from these funds and part of the funds went to the units of local municipal equipment self-government, for the damages that occurred in the space. We can discuss whether it's good or bad. Likewise, I must tell you that about this legalization the municipalities and cities had a different attitude until the moment we decided to publicly show how many municipalities and cities work. And when we had a public demonstration of how much the office works then actually every mayor who has an office, or every mayor knew exactly what place he was in and how much who made it. And that's one way that when we decentralize the job that we need to decentralize the job and secure the money that's going to do this decentralised job and that's the only way to do it. Look only recently at how long since September 15, we have made commitments to municipalities and cities, from animal protection, so take a look at the Law on first-readers, so he immediately said which percentage of municipalities and cities must be set aside for certain associations. And if that's how we define everything municipalities and cities need, then it's a big question, do we really need such municipalities and cities? As soon as these mayors and mayors, what they can develop, what specificity they must develop, there are therefore a number of issues. Equally, look back a little, we had, until the formation of the county and municipalities and towns in Croatia were 101 municipalities and the City of Zagreb had 14 of them, and then it was all 115. And we've grown to the number we've grown. And we have a lot more good examples than bad examples. I can say an example of a municipality that was by the sea, which was separated from the former municipality was created several, where my family had a cottage from '67. year, the same moment there was a change, there was progress. For the simple reason that you are incomparably better functioning on a territory that is obvious and simply because then you know that the funds remain there, you have interests. You can really see all the interests. What I mean. I will never advocate a reform of local self-government units by key financial, by the key number of people who live because it's an absolutely bad key. The key of the people who live will come to the fact that in Slovenia you will have or, I will not have Slavonia, Slavonia is to us all, Lika-Senj County as much as the municipality would have. Lika-Senj County has 50,000 inhabitants. The question is these are some reference figures, 50,000 inhabitants have you revered Črnomerec which is the council of city quarters of one of the smaller ones in the City of Zagreb. So just to compare what it is and how many municipalities there would be. The same question is that the municipality can do in its financial capacity, because if we go into reform of those who are bad, we're going to unite 5 bad ones and get very bad, or we're going to unite one good and four bad, so we're going to have one bad, but there's got to be a reform. But the first and basic reform that should be. We need to be able to know what we want, that the municipalities and cities are really working, from where the means to enable them to do so, to give them independence in work. I'm really going back to spatial planning. There's this polytrynty everywhere. And everywhere's great on cards looks like in reality it's a lot different. And the decentralisation and real development of the country and the real success of a country is always going from the bottom up. The state isn't, it's like a very simple example to you. Father decides that now... So we'll get to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He has three sons and decides to share the property with them and tell them that everyone is in charge and that he goes on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As long as that father tells each of those sons what he gave, he has to work, there's no progress. That means either you let them work and they'll succeed, and as long as you give, but you know exactly what they have to spend, how much they have to spend, they'll say, so when you know, manage it yourself. The same is your relationship between the state and the municipalities and the cities. That means we have to enter into a real reform, but that reform first and foremost we need to know what we want. How do we want to develop Croatia, how do we want Croatia to develop? How we want Croatia to develop in the first place, and we need to know that for a long time there will have to be help, because there is a big difference. The differences are getting bigger every day. There were various examples. You have really municipalities and cities that in your own when you look at the structure of the budget, they have 10% structure of income tax. And you have those whose structure is the communal fee, which is the highest percentage is 58%. There are municipalities in its budget structure that have a municipal fee of 58%, which is a constant income, i.e. a fixed asset that should be. So I'm not surprised, no matter how late it is, and when we're all a little late we're all a little tired and our attention is leaving, that this law has caused this debate. A discussion for the simple reason, which we are aware of is that something needs to be changed. But when it comes to changing, it's not a word reform, it's a reform that really needs to be predicted and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52503	Thank you very much. And on your show, we have more replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52504	Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, you are at the beginning of your presentation, so here and now, in the end, you have said a relatively simple law, and we have been discussing it all day and why it is so, and we see that there is also a whole series of individual discussions. It is simply so, despite all those who spoke critically about cities, municipalities, units of local self-government, it is so for the simple reason that life is taking place in these cities and municipalities. Because in these cities and municipalities every mayor, some here call local sheriff, every local unit also cares about preschool education, school education, construction, local unclassified roads. Few in principle in smaller municipalities or cities do not care about the problems of their citizens without saying that they also know family problems in their units of local self-government. And when you mentioned 556 municipalities and cities and reform as a bad story, I fully agree with you. Because talking about reform, in general all 556 units of local self-government, not seeing exactly the fact that each of them is a specific person and a certain universe is insane. So, at this point, what I can certainly guarantee, and also any mayor or mayor, is that at this point there are at least 556 investments in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia, which are run by units of local self-government, cities and municipalities. Who generate development in their area and the survival of the population in their area. The critical treatment of local self-government units as we heard today during the debate in this House is at least unfair and unfair. And what we can all agree on was either to enable or ban certain things that are going on. In my city, I also provided free textbooks and free transportation and kindergartens for all children, and asked whether all cities and municipalities could provide free textbooks like the city of Zagreb or not. Dal asks the question with whom and what it is financed by the local self-government unit cities and municipalities and are we now talking about a relatively simple law that I believe we will all accept because it is a simple, good and for the first time all tax revenues are directed where they need to be directed. But this is just one little wheel in everything that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52505	Thank you very much. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52506	Thank you very much. No wonder, it's really not weird that such a relatively simple law that we're all aware of solves only part of the problem causes such a debate for the simple reason that we're all aware that something is wrong. If we had any of us magic wands then it would certainly be all right, so you're the mayor of the municipality or the mayor of the city that I'm wrong to say where you can really give your fellow citizens a lot more and make it possible for certain things much more than someone who's the head of the Municipality of Zablja that we're not in Slavonia all the time let's go somewhere else for the simple reason that you're from the starting position significantly different. What I am absolutely sure is that we have 207 municipalities and cities that are financially self-sustainable in such a way that there is no need for any help, and I am absolutely sure that what should be an effort should be an effort to help those who cannot because the child goes to kindergarten and goes to Zažblje kindergarten probably has no kindergarten, but that he does not get me wrong. And not to say that in Zagreb, my children, one of them graduated from college, and the other one was my child at the age of 5, which was now a fifth-year college and the entire elementary school was in one-way school. For what reason? Because we lived in the center of town where there were few children. No matter what they were receiving, they had free books of their education and it was kind of a normal thing. And in the city of Zagreb that anyone should even mention that maybe someone should make a difference and pay for those books, I think it would be heresy. What am I saying? 556 municipalities and cities with different topics, with different history and present, and our task is to compensate at least for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52507	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52508	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. Perhaps it is not burning once again to point out, I deeply believe that almost all 556 municipalities and cities have met to this or that extent their purpose. Let's just consider taking into account certain cities and their suburban settlements, you know how difficult it is to get into the city council of someone from the suburban settlement? On that side of the community, it makes sense because people go into representative bodies, people fight for their environment. Someone here mentioned, there's a school, there's a home of health, there's a kindergarten, there's a hospital. What I particularly liked about your debate is that we should also look at the natural, historical and cultural heritage, let’s not just look at the financial resources for each municipality. My community used to have 20,000 inhabitants, now it's 1,500, I mean once, that was 100 years ago. But back to this law, now I might say something I didn't plan to say as a representative of the opposition, it's a good law, but now I'm going to try to paint. Imagine that the people of the ministry have come to plaster the building and they're... well that shrub. But what's the problem, the wall is humped. And yet they grumble well, and there shall be a back wall when they make it go away. That's the whole point of the story, it won't solve those big problems. Of course, this law can't even solve it, but in the future we have to do what you said, we have to think about how we're going to solve this problem because first of all because of people living in certain municipalities that we can tell them clearly, your community makes sense, your community will stay or not stay. Here's what we have to tell people in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52509	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52510	Thank you very much. I'll pick up where my colleague, Sagar, paintedly ended up. So you have a hump wall and you fold it, and then you need more shrubs for it than if it's not humps, and where there's a lot of humps if there's too much shrubs it's going to crack you so you have to vacate underneath it. And that's how it is when we talk about this law. When the wall is flat, we can brush it up and you and I, let's say I wouldn't dare, because of course it would come to 122 problems, but when the coat of arms is a lot of noise to habilitate the rest. Equally related to this law. This law is really better, and every time we have a little improvement, we have to take a little step forward and we have to somehow insist on making it even better, make it even simpler. This law has caused such a controversy that opens up a number of other things, opens the essence, and every time we open it. Do we really want decentralisation in Croatia? That's the first question. If we really want it to be achieved where the state is going to be, is it necessary for the state to be appointed as a mentor who will allow municipalities and cities to live their lives, but that they do not get involved and that they are not dictated in the way they should be done because then they will not have their life. Therefore, the first goal is whether we want decentralisation, if we want to achieve what we want with it, what is even development and what is the minimum of standards that we want to achieve for all of Croatia and how to ensure it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52511	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Darinko Dumbovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52512	... And I think that this island of ours shows one symbol of something that the islands shouldn't look like. [[Specially enabled.]] You mentioned here that there is a lot missing in Zagreb, but when I draw the line as the mayor of the city of Petrinja and I know at the end the whole situation in that area where more than 70,000 people live, then I can say that there are islands that have four halls, and we have not received any halls in the last 22 years since we returned. There are cities and islands that have dozens of circular flows, we don't have one roundabout. Thank you for talking about legalization and legalization is one of the key things that we can and how we can develop and what's most important about what we draw from the budget when it comes to communal compensation, communal contributions because we are the first city that we have released just municipal contributions and where we have lost 10 million kuna. But that wouldn't be controversial, what's very important here is for the word, that by the government's regulation three years ago we were left without a communal fee and one seven, eight million kuna for military facilities. And when we look at that on the one hand, 10 million kunas were given to the citizens so that they could be the first energy city in Croatia, on the other hand, we were lost somewhere closer to seven, eight million kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52513	Thank you very much. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52514	Thank you very much. My colleague Dumbovic, I really spoke picturesquely of the islands, I spoke for the reason that the city of Zagreb lives its life for itself without looking at which it can have and which one should have. But in this assembly, I'm not sure that many colleagues have been to the Banovina area that you're talking about. You know that I've been over a few times and so perhaps just to take advantage of this opportunity when all eyes were on Gunj and when in Gunja we were collecting books and notebooks and everything for children in Gunja, since I went there very often I was then what was gathered in Zagreb, there was a group of women, I said don't wear it in Gunja, there they already have and no longer know what you're going to do, go to the Court of the Union. The Court of the Union is a beautiful place in Croatia and I am not sure how many of us were in the Court of the Union, I have been several times and the Court of the Union is the same part of Croatia. It has an extremely great potential for development. But I may use the few more seconds I have and talk about Petrinja and where you've made a big step as mayor. You have recognized the energy restoration not only in the sense that the city looks better but as a great potential. The potential in this sense is that the municipality, or city, invested and gave its fellow citizens funds for energy recovery, and I was sure to gain more and more incomparably. The incomparably more he got was there were craftsmen who worked out who were returning from their taxes to the budget and it was one twist of funds that every mayor or mayor should recognize, that on the one hand you give, but incomparable more you get and energy restoration was one of the classic examples on which other cities were supposed to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52515	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the distinguished representative Grosdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52516	Dear fellow Taritash, I didn't mean to pick up, but when you said we weren't all the same except for the cell phone, and we want police development, so that's really how it is. But here in this law it was proposed, and here colleagues have been objecting, which is why municipalities, cities don't have the same amount for fiscal balance. So here it is proposed in the total calculation all the cities have entered except the city of Zagreb just to avoid raising that difference because then it would be much more questionable. So it was here that most cities really wanted to be at the same level, and when we talk about it, we can't say that we don't want to help everyone evenly. Not everyone can have everything, it is a fact, but the fact is that the city of Zagreb has 750 or 780 thousand inhabitants with 18% cut, which then gives some other standards. And if we're going back to socialism, then me and my parents, for example. I didn't have free textbooks, now we say there are free textbooks all, so no property censors, no other reservations. So what's fairer now or what used to be when we all paid for our textbooks? Legalisation, it is true that legalisation, but some municipalities had the maximum amounts for legalized facilities, so without any release, and some dropped and amounted to that legalisation being as large as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52517	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52518	Thank you very much. I'll start with legalization, so the fee for keeping the building in space was the same, no matter where the building was, but the topic was what you're talking about communal contributions. So the municipal contribution some municipalities have decided to give up their municipal contribution, and some have not. There are municipalities that have said we will give up our communal contribution because this way more buildings will legalize and then we will have a communal fee that is continuous. So it's according to policy as which municipality has decided, one model and another really who we haven't interfered with, we didn't judge either model. I absolutely understood the mayors or mayors who said, we will say that the municipal contribution is one kuna because in this way more houses will legalize and will permanently pay the communal fee which is then for me the continuous income that this is short-term and it is absolutely so. The same way I started my discussion in a way that I talked about that one dam and those holes. I really feel this law as a law that tries to shut down one of those holes that they've made and we're all aware that there's a lot of it. Could it have been better? You can always do better. Here is a model, one that is correct, and so in the debate I debated that it is correct but equally our discussions and serve that especially when the law goes in two readings, we get an even better proposal in the second reading than it was in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52519	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Boris Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52520	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. This law regulates very important matter, regulates the financing of local self-government, actually regulates the financing of quality and availability of services provided to citizens by the local level of government. What is important is that this law does not violate the basic principles on which local self-government in the Republic of Croatia rests, which is the principle of autonomy and the principle of subsidiarity, they are also protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The European Charter and the Constitution also protect the right of units in their own income and how they will manage that revenue. The Charters and the Constitution also say that the state must protect and assist units that are weaker in financial or fiscal capacity, but not in a way that conditions such assistance and involve themselves in the management of these funds and in the way in which they actually carry out operations that are exclusively in the self-government work of local self-government units. There's been a lot of talk today about the distribution of funds, how much to whom this law is taken away, how much to whom it's given, who's losing, who's winning. I think this law is trying to make a fair distribution that will reduce the differences in development between units. It should certainly be welcomed that the secured funds for decentralised functions which in reality units have not taken over, that these assets can be used for those decentralised functions that are actually taken over. It is good that the bill sets out three benchmarks, especially for municipalities, especially for cities, especially for counties. And that the fiscal balancing model is based on the calculation of the fiscal capacity of the units, I think that this is a good way to go and that through the debate and the second reading, the law will be further improved, that we will ultimately have a quality legislative proposal. But in this debate, I would like to underline something else, not populist, but rational and reasoned. So, speaking about the subject, first of all, the subject that has actually been discussed before in the debates of my predecessors, refers to unfinished decentralisation. So decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia is started but not completed. We could actually say it's not rounded because decentralisation is a process that lasts, it never actually stops. It is clear to all of us that we have a large number of units of local self-government and that there are very large differences between them both in terms of population and in terms of fiscal capacity and in terms of human capacities, so the human resources that work in these units and the jobs they do by law should be the same, so there is no distinction between the jurisdiction of a city of 30 thousand inhabitants and a municipality that has 2 thousand inhabitants, which we tried to do in 2005 to introduce a category of large cities, these are cities of more than 35,000 inhabitants, but there are as many as 8 people, who actually do not have 35,000 inhabitants, and it is clear that they are not able to carry out those responsibilities. So we need one simultaneous political decentralisation, functional decentralisation, and, of course, decentralisation, so we should monitor incomes, jobs that these units would do. In this way, the announced goal of each government so far would be to bring the state closer to the citizens, to bring the public closer because a large number of our citizens are actually a municipality of the same state regardless of whether they go to the state office, to the county or to the city, all of this is, in fact, the most citizens of the same. When we look at this government's programme, the government's programme, which determines the period of office from 2016 to 2020, includes a section of fiscal decentralisation, and the government writes there will continue the process of fiscal decentralisation but at the same time a simpler and understandable system of distribution of income from income tax and the system of financing decentralised functions will be established. In addition, a new allocation system will be developed to assist local and regional (regional) self-government units from the state budget with a view to a more balanced development of the Republic of Croatia. This bill is definitely going in that direction, so now that someone does not object, the government is not fulfilling the promised and written in the programme, so it goes in that direction, but now it has to continue. In Croatia, a stronger decentralisation started in 2000 when we had changes to the Constitution, but as I said, it was never implemented until the end and until today, so from 2000 until today, all governments at least expressed their intention to deal with the decentralisation process, so the government in 2004 was a framework programme of decentralisation for the period 2004-2007, which did not, unfortunately, achieve the desired results and we had the government in 2010, adopted guidelines and principles for functional decentralisation and territorial reconstruction, and it did not actually live. The government's 2011-2015 programme, as one of its main objectives, has also installed a point of decentralisation of financial revenues and by increasing the powers of local and regional self-government. Afterwards, we're still a public administration development strategy. So, a lot of documents, a lot of wishes, but when we look at the result, it's not a lot done, it's not much achieved, and what we need is a reform from a centralised state towards a politic decentralised country. I have already mentioned the 20-20 government programme, which decedifies the decentralisation process, the government will reduce the level of centralised to strengthen the principles of joint multi-level governance, and partnership with units of local and regional regional self-government. Now what do we need? Now it's time to start making strategic decisions. For example, what about state administration regulations? Whether to adhere to the State Administration Regulation or not. What about the county, which hands and feet fight for more money and more jobs to justify their existence. This bill is basically good, as far as redistributing money and making it must have taken a lot of effort, but now we need more courageous reform moves. Framework assumptions for this we have, we have a public administration development strategy, we have an action plan for the implementation of this strategy, we have this government's programme, now we need a political decision, we need synergies between resolution ministries in the direction of change. The other thing I wanted to point out in this debate, therefore, other than decentralisation is one slightly forgotten reform measure that was adopted nearly exactly 2 years ago, and it concerns the merger of units of local and regional regional self-government, i.e. the merger of units of local self-government, did not apply to the counties. In 2015, we changed the law on districts, municipalities and cities, where we introduced a voluntary merger institute. Here it's been two years since, we don't have a single example of voluntary merger, so municipalities and cities. Not even in an announcement. I think what's missing and measuring is an incentive. One encouraging measure, one carrot, as you would say, which would motivate, or at least give material to the heads of the municipality and cities to consider maybe voluntary merger, 2 units or more. The finance ministry should consider in cooperation with other resolution ministries in a way that encourages municipalities to join together. Whether to install it into this law, whether to install it into another law, but certainly you should think about it, because time has shown that we currently have a dead institute that has not been realized in reality. We have examples in other countries. Almost all countries that have the possibility of voluntary merger of local self-government units have some kind of incentive measures, should now only be discussed which should be the best measure. Is there some kind of direct grand, whether or not some indirect funding, a unique, successful model in Europe doesn't exist? But we may be able to learn from the mistakes others have made. Anyway, it wouldn't be a good idea to stop and not develop that model of voluntary mergers. What, at least at this point, it looks like an illusion, so no community will want to connect, but I think we should still go in that direction to encourage them. I think we've already achieved some kind of success in the last 10 years. Here's more than 10 years, I think, more specifically, since 2006, no new municipalities have been established. So actually the last municipality was founded in 2006 so I think there's already some success in unfounded, unforming new municipalities. Finally, I would only say that given the reasoning of the law that the final fiscal impact of the proposed law would differ from unit to unit, perhaps that the ministry could have made some sort of calculation simulation for some municipalities clean as a orientation for 2018 compared to 2017 and 2016 to see that difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52521	Thank you. We have more exposure and we have a replica. Honorable representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52522	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Milosevic, you speak relatively quietly, and we are all humming, so your one finding is a little undetected, I think, passed away, and you were talking about that time has come for a political decision, what to do with the offices of the state administration, ie, what to do with the offices in the county. We have a situation that we have really state administration offices and that people, a common man, often don't know whether he's going to the state administration's office to solve something, whether he's going to the county, whether he's going, but he still thinks he's actually going to the municipality. And indeed, those obligations that they have, i.e. jobs that do public administration offices or jobs in the county, have been made to make decisions and to see where and under what conditions they do, not to duplicate jobs, not to share artificial offices. I can only always, I always go back to the City of Zagreb. So, the City of Zagreb is there in '94-'95. abolished the municipalities and then there were city offices. So still, it was '94-'95. Now we're in 2017. I say when I have to tell someone, and I belong to Medveščak, then I say you go to the office there in Medveščak, and then when I see that they don't understand me, then I say go to the Medveščak municipality. At the same time, he understands that he is going to the Medveščak municipality, the Medveščak municipality of 21, 22 years of age is certainly not there. I am truly sure that the time has come for one political decision to see what is done in the county, what is done in the offices of the state administration, that we do not duplicate jobs but also confuse citizens and perhaps at some point invent certain jobs to justify one, or the existence of one, or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52523	Thank you, thank you very much. The response of the distinguished Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52524	Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, here I was speaking quietly and calmly, there was no need to shout, there was a theme but you listened to me very carefully, so you noticed that part of my exposure. What I said and in the public exposure is, for the most part, all the municipalities, the citizens don't know, and they don't read a dozen records on a building, so the municipalities know about which door to knock on. I would refer to your presentation where you warned about the island, which is the city of Zagreb. The fact is that the city of Zagreb is an island that is different from all other units because the city of Zagreb, we are talking about the city of Zagreb and it has actually the position of the County and it also performs the tasks of the State, so it also pays the employees who are actually officials of the city of Zagreb and it actually conventionals it, the state does not want to change it precisely because it does not allocate money for the salaries of these officials. And then we actually have one unit, which is the city of Zagreb, which is both the city and the county, and it's actually doing the work of the state, actually the state. Which way to go? Now I wouldn't want to, it's a short time, this is the answer to the replica, to say which way but we should certainly open those questions and we should move forward bravely. I didn't want to call any government because, as I said, the government that initiated decentralisation in 2000, so all of this coalition government didn't really do much in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52525	Thank you very much. That's what we've done with the first-point counseling clubs. So we're going to the first point of individual debate. And the first came to the attention of Honorary Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52526	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. Otherwise for years undeveloped ends were forgotten by the central state and this is one pebble, one wheel very important in correcting the injustices that occurred over these areas. Like what? I did not even vote in favour of the budget for these reasons, but this law now changes it, regardless of what I was in the majority, this is not about the majority now, I did not vote because of what the promise made in 2016 was actually going to start to decentralise the funds, and so is the Dalmatian Zagora, mainly by that law, indexation, the Regional Development Act 2014 which was applied by the SDP and the Greek minister who literally halved the budgets such as the city of Sinj, Vrgorac, Gorski Kotar, huge funds on this one. But the new law that is now being proposed here no matter what I am in opposition, I must say that this is what I've been fighting for years. It is essentially one part of this whole story in the fight for decentralisation and justice, not really, perhaps never the most righteous, I am sorry for this part of the island, but I hope that special laws will find solutions for the islands. In a number of conversations while I was in the majority with the finance minister and with the people of finance, I warned regional development about the problems that occurred in previous governments, and therefore local self-governments are essentially not able to provide their students with free textbooks, which is why they do not have kindergartens, free transportation. And indeed, here I can say from this position, in my name, I will support this law, of course, what I asked for in the first term, what I did not pass, and in the second one I was in, and most of where we were. However, with this law, these units of local self-government will achieve some kind of justice that has been abolished. The fact is that this is calculated on the basis of the calculation based on 2016. I'm glad he gets a lot of cities. Here's an example of my city Sinj will get huge funds, it's just a correction to the injustice that will be and it's an injustice, I think you should say publicly that the law is the one that is good, that you should support it no matter where you are strangers, so it'll be better for Vrgorec, the whole of Dalmatia, I believe and numerous cities in Slavonia that are forgotten because simply such will be indicators, such are calculations and you probably have these indicators. I believe that the local self-government that gets this money, we're talking about this law now, although I have complaints about thousands of other laws, mainly indexed unfairly by regional development. However, as far as this Law on the financing of units of local self-government is concerned, it has been maximumly done in a way to satisfy, in fact, at least fairly and evenly deploying those funds mainly in the underdeveloped. The fact that they are, but it's a question of what local self-government will do, what their leaders will do in these means. Many local self-governments will be able to reduce or shut down the municipal fee, that is, because these regions are poor, these funds will be able to invest in their investments and run local self-governments are the basic driver of the entire development of society. And that's what's expected. It is expected to provide free textbooks of the local self-government, that there will not only be free textbooks in Zagreb and a few other rich environments. A water supply case in those parts is expected to be resolved, so the young leave. And I believe, personally from this position I am speaking, I will uphold this law. And believing that other ministries will continue to build and work in the interest of local communities, mainly underdeveloped areas. It's Gorski Kotar, Lika, Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia all of it is extinct and I hope that these local self-government leaders, unfortunately, we have too many local self-governments, that's a fact, but I hope that in other reforms, i.e. In other fields in other ministries, even more resources go towards these rural forgotten areas, displaced areas, and will be held essentially by people in this area and by this law I am speaking now for Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar, most of these areas, that conditions will be created, preconditions. I don't know if it's more appropriate for you... I can see that you're smiling, rarely when I'm speaking this way, but the fact of what I've been warning you is that I spoke in numerous meetings and with the minister while we were in position, that I didn't support the budget because of these problems when I was in the ruling majority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that this law will make these local self-governments of these funds they will receive, that they will know how to deploy them, that these local leaders and their councils will know how to manage them, and that it will benefit and survive mainly young people in these areas, this is what I am talking about for my Chetian end because it is my obligation, from there I have denied, this is an individual debate and I am now speaking for myself, meaning in my own name and probably on behalf of my colleagues from the club, I will personally support the law and I hope that this law contributes to a lot of local self-government, but I expect other ministries, mainly from regional development, to follow this example of decentralisation and even development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52527	Thank you. A fellow Milosevic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, the replica, well, then we have to do it in a row. The first came to the replica, the esteemed representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bulj, you mentioned decentralisation and that a large part of the money goes to the city of Zagreb, I would like to break that myth about these money that goes to the city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb has a huge budget of 7 and a half billion kuna, but one example I will show you that this money is actually leaving. Sesvete, the town district of Sesvete has about 80,000 inhabitants and these people in the city of Zagreb pay 18% cut and 18% goes into the city budget and he goes for that money, those citizens of Sesveda don't get adequate care, here I'm going to take you once to Sesvete, there's a lot of fans in that neighborhood, so one traffic lights they're waiting for in the morning about 45 minutes waiting for that traffic lights. For years, they have been begging for the denivelation of this crossroads, nothing is happening and it is actually that the money that the citizens of Zagreb are paying through the cut goes to the wrong projects and that the citizens of the city of Zagreb don't actually live well, that it is a myth that is created in public, here's all I wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52529	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52530	So this law essentially tries to correct these injustices and basically to keep the taxes mostly in local self-government. However, Zagreb is, I don't know now exactly, how Zagreb schedules it but I know that Zagreb is one of the most developed parts and it is natural, it is still a central city but it is not good that only Zagreb is developed and the rest of Croatia is undeveloped, that we have 2/3 of the empty. This law is basically going to get something more but there won't be any big losses to those who have, that's this even development that I've been talking about all along, it's basically the hardest thing for me to do when our young people are moving out. Come on when Zagreb comes, and it is not good, from these parts undeveloped, but when they go to another country because they have no kindergarten, no infrastructure, no free textbooks, no transportation from their place to school or schools are destroyed. Local self-government has problems, too. So I personally bought a petition in 2014, and I organized those petitions when it declared Sinj a developed city, the Gorski Kotar developed... 2014 is a law on regional development where indexation was catastrophic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to no matter what position we're in, what's good for all the anomalies, this is one wheel very important, right, but there are thousands more wheels. This is why I came from my local level into politics because this law is essentially something that is at least partly decentralisation. One of the most decentralized local self-government. Local self-government is the essence of life and especially in areas where people go. So, Marco, I know there's a problem in the Councils, but that's the problem you're going to have to solve with the mayor. It's a pity the Cetina province doesn't have 150 grand... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52531	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52532	Well, it was moving to listen to a fellow Bulja who was satisfied with the funds that would get the city of Sinj with this bill but other underdeveloped areas, I should also be satisfied with what would get my hometown and I think it's an opportunity and that you've well noticed that these cities, means those units of local self-government, and the municipalities come out now because they're going to get that money from the state, of course these are just some calculations that don't have to be like that eventually, but again it's about big funds. They will be able to use that money to make life easier for their citizens, here you have made a good proposal, so they will be able to free their citizens of municipal compensation, they will be able, here we have a promise with us that they will be a free kindergarten for all, so now these money will give the opportunity to go in that direction and that these pre-election promises that were not real at that moment, now with this bill, become real and real, which, of course, will give me, as a man who comes from that city, from these undeveloped environments must rejoice. And the bill itself will see what will be of course in the second reading and what will come from the amendments and perhaps by the government, and also by other clubs, we will see what it will look like then I will decide personally, and I believe fellow MPs, whether to support this proposal. But definitely one good part of the local self-government unit that is underdeveloped, which has a larger population, will receive some funds, and these funds will be decentralised. There is a part of the municipalities and cities that is particularly dissatisfied with those island towns and municipalities and there is a way to see how they can be met because they are in one other way in a more unfavourable position compared to the rest of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52533	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52534	I believe that the local leaders, I believe, will not now be using these funds that both Sinj and Metkovic will receive and I do not know which other environments, Vrgorac, Gorski Kotar, their local self-government, will now be used to continue incarceration and create even greater problems. That it will be an asset that will go into investment and create new employment values, i.e. the creation of good conditions for life, and not, as so far as it was, without criteria they were, were given incentives to mountain mountain mountain resources that had gone, without being intended. And of course, that's where they used the angle. I don't know how to give money, but it wasn't meant to be. That's the problem. It was seen yesterday by populist political to please the voters with this. And I believe that this money and every leader who gets this money can now direct for the survival of these people. Because it's a corner. will be here most than the island, and I hope that for the islands and other laws... The law will find a solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the huge amount is very strong, by its calculation, by 2016 it turns out that my city of Sinj will get 22 million kuna more funds. And of course, that's how they'll get other units of local self-government. So that's a huge amount, if it's 2018, that's a huge amount of money. And if the local self-government leaders are going to point where they need to go. Of course, if they're going to incriminate, if they open up companies... Subsidized companies, i.e. We give them money, as we've done so far, then there'll be nothing out of this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the law did what should be served, decentralisation, mostly very important because... And key to what you said, this is the first reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe it will work for both islands and long reading and other laws and regulations. Because all of us are ultimately interested in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52535	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52536	Dear fellow Bully, I, in my presentation, therefore, was not in my debate, I commended, therefore, the measures of this law, but I was not as clear and loud as you were. I think it's a good idea that you, as an advocate who is actually in opposition but when you were in opposition, did not hesitate to criticise and attack both the Government and all the laws and all the measures, recognized the good solutions in this law that would provide more resources, which would therefore provide funds for poor Dalmatia, for poor Dalmatian Zagora and for the survival of people in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52537	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52538	My colleague, I've been to most... And I know when it was voted in this line, but on the other hand, when it was voted on the budget, this is one of the reasons why I didn't vote for the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is because of the policy that was promised then, so promised personally by Minister Maric, then it will be on that budget in 2017. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. But here, better ever than never. And when I was in power, I didn't support it now, out of opposition, I'm saying that these are good measures. I think such an advocate should also speak, with all the anomalies perhaps someone can notice, and that the secretary or the ministry will respect it. I do not speak, but I am speaking according to the calculation that I have seen in certain cities, according to this formula, essentially the Dalmatian Zagora and Lika, the Gorski Kotar, which is also damaged, Slavonia and other developed areas of this law are essentially this even development being implemented essentially through the legal ones. Which will be in 2018 that in the second reading, I'm sorry, we'll see. I repeat this law once again, and I hope that the other ministries will seek that decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52539	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if someone on the side of Denmark were to observe our system, our society, without directly involving it, could assume that Croatia is a decentralised state by the number of units of local self-government. However, 556 units of local self-government per 4 million inhabitants from 100 to more than 100000 with equal obligations and functions are not stockpiles and is certainly not an indicator of the decentralisation of the state but rather the opposite. It is precisely because this country is highly centralised, so far it has also increased the number of municipalities and cities, because in order for a local community, it would be a city, a town, a town, a village, a village, a village, to reach at least a portion of the financial resources, a portion of the income generated by the inhabitants of a particular community in order to invest in its micro-development, therefore, in order to achieve these funds, therefore, every community must have a legal framework or a city or a municipality, anyway, in fact, quite anyway, to achieve this proposal today. It turns out that everything is in money, and if you ask the leaders of the local self-government units, I believe that they will tell you, that this law, the Law on the financing of local self-government units, is the most crucial thing for survival and for the development of a particular unit of local self-government, so I believe, and this was present from today's debate that the mayors, mayors and mayors are extremely interested in this law, which, however, could not be said for the Association of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia which was not really involved in the drafting of this law. What's good for me in this legislative proposal is that the intensity of this law is really that one law defines more easily and understandablely the distribution of income from taxes to units of local self-government and to simplify the system of fiscal balancing and the financing system of decentralised functions because so far, the legal frameworks that regulated it were like 50 shades of gray, and I mean form rather than content, so I'm only thinking about color. In addition to simplifying the system, the second objective of the promoter is to make the system fairer I think there are more serious smaller ones. This bill leaves itself in relation to the distribution of income tax with an index of development and all those municipalities and cities that were below 75% of the RH's development index remain without 28% of income tax, or 16% of those that were island units of local self-government or mountain-mountan areas. And that would ultimately mean a disaster for those units of local self-government if 17% of income tax were not allocated to the share of fiscal balancing. On the basis of the proposal for this new law, the right to fiscal balancing is subject to those units of local self-government whose capacity of tax revenue achieved is less than the reference value of the capacity of the tax revenue achieved. When I said that the intensity is the objective, the greater fairness of this proposal has more shortcomings, then these shortcomings are contained in Article 7(3) and paragraph 4 which regulate the criteria for calculating the benchmarks and capacity of the tax revenues achieved for both municipalities and cities. As regards the municipality, therefore the proposal for this Law establishes the reference value by the basis of the five-year average of the total income income income income tax achieved in the municipality and by the cuts that the municipality would achieve by introducing the highest percentage per capita rate increased by 50%. This also applies to cities with no increase at the end of 50%. This kind of reading would actually turn out to be that maybe the municipalities because of this 50% increase are in advantage but they're not because the final calculation tells us about this reference value for the municipalities of 1900 kuna and that it is for the cities of 2500 kuna. Legal frameworks governing the powers and public functions of local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia do not recognise any difference between municipalities and cities. Not only do those units of local self-government that bear the city's title have more, different, serious fiscal burdens and powers, but many municipalities are by their size and population far greater than many cities. So I really don't understand the criteria by which the proposer proposes such a discriminatory proposal that makes the people of the municipalities less valuable and that, we also have a concrete calculation, so the population of the municipality is worth 600 kuna less per capita than the one living in the city. So I wonder if the cost of building a road in the municipality by 600 kuna is less, if the price of kindergarten in the municipality is 600 kuna lower, whether therefore the municipal infrastructure, social infrastructure is cheaper in the municipality than it is in the city. Of course, only if the promoter believes that the municipalities are space, rural space without the need for roads in rural space, that they do not need sewers, that kindergartens, homes of health and that civil society is actually a luxury that rural space does not need. According to all relevant methods over 80% of the Republic of Croatia is a rural area, so this country is a rural country. The EU has long recognised the importance of rural development, and therefore the EU spends most of its money on the development of agriculture, i.e. the development of rural space. With the development of agriculture not only in terms of investment as I know it in tractors and plowshares, but in the development of agriculture, the development of rural areas means the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, means the development of social infrastructure, means the development of civil society, in fact means raising the quality of life in rural areas so that rural space is more competitive and so that this area is not demographically impoverished. I'm the last MP to go back to the past, especially not the one after 45 years. But this kind of policy reminds me of that policy that said let's move all the population from the village to the cities, put them in skyscrapers, so they can fill our factories. That may have made sense when our cities had an industry at the time, but today these people from a rural area full of factories somewhere in Ireland, Sweden or what I know is where. The applicant's intensities to make this legislative proposal fairer than the current legal framework relating to the financing of local self-government in many ways distorts the fact that, in order to calculate the reference value other than the cut as a criterion, the income tax was taken exclusively without communal compensation, without ecological rent, without a holiday house tax, without a residence tax. By calculating that unit of local self-government that has developed tourist capacities and these are almost exclusively coastal municipalities and cities, they will be in a much more favourable position than the continental municipalities and cities. Some units of local self-government are making more than 50% of their incomes, and they will actually be beneficiaries of the Balance Fund because of lower incomes from income tax and thus have an even higher GDP per capita. In addition to a simpler, more understandable and fairer way of defining the system of distribution of income from taxes, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government should certainly aim at long-term security and sustainability of local budgets. However, this legislative proposal provides for the distribution of only one tax, which is income tax. The intensity is the same throughout Europe as in Croatia, so the burden of work will fall, so the local budget will also fall. The profit tax becomes the sole income of the central state, which completely demotes the local self-government for the growth of successful companies, and the redistribution of the only safe tax is the value added tax of our country and does not think about it. In the end, I will conclude that just those municipalities that are the poorest and with the lowest financial capacity after 2019 will be even poorer, which are precisely those of the municipalities in Dalmatia, these are the municipalities in the Cetina region, these are just the municipalities in Gorko Kotar. This will remain so if such a legal proposal remains in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52541	Thank you. And on your show, we have a replica, distinguished MPs, Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52542	Thank you, Mr. President. You're talking as fast as I am, but I've managed to catch you all, see that you're the head of the municipality to come from a rural area like me, and I agree with you. At first you started to mention decentralisation and I must say that unfortunately this law, and we expect such laws today's debate tells us that we need them, is not the law that will bring decentralisation. What is adopted by this law is that these municipalities do not lose revenue that would have been lost if the laws had remained the same due to the reduction of the tax burden on labour. So if the market movements are unfavourable, the municipalities will certainly continue to lose and there you are absolutely right. That is why I call you to follow future laws concerning decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia as my most sincere opposition. There was a good law ahead of us, it's a farm law that allows for that decentralisation, but we had a lot of laws that more decentralised obligations like the Animal Protection Act, so we impose on local self-government units new costs, new obligations. The law that will allow us truly one decentralisation that we all need to follow is the Law on State Property and the Function of State Property, both in rural areas and in urban areas, as well as the Law on Maritime concessions on maritime goods and seaports, although it is not for your area from which you come, but for the one from which I come. But definitely as an opposition, I most sincerely urge you to follow these laws that directly concern decentralisation, and also the Ministry of Finance to monitor other resolutions because these laws will be well written and implemented as soon as the state property is put into office will be reflected on the revenue side of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52543	Thank you. The answer to the distinguished representative of Matjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52544	Thank you. Dear colleague, story me fast or story me slowly at the end when we break the law, when we completely strip it if these criteria remain redistribute income tax over 50% of local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia will have fewer incomes in their budget and those in the rural area, and some have the lowest capacity. The areas of special state care so far have had 88% of the share in income tax, now will have 60. There is no compensation that will make it up to them by 2019, those 50% will be too little, after 2019, the revenues of these, laugh at you colleagues as much as you want, after 2019, the revenues of these municipalities will be reduced by between 20 and 50%. I am afraid that all those Commissioners who now praise this law will wake up after 2019 in a nightmare when they see what their projections will be for 2019 and 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52545	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52546	Dear ladies and gentlemen, your Excellency. During the debate, I replicated a gentleman from the SDP, unfortunately I forgot his name, but he told me that local units can't deal with a loss unlike the state, so they don't have any debts, like to God they're raising some loans but they don't live on debt. Its essence of his thesis was that local self-government units don't live on debt. Unfortunately, though, like many others in this House, he does not realize that money is in itself, or that the only way to create money is to issue credits. If I get paid in the House, let's say 15 thousand kuna, I personally didn't get into credit, but someone else had to go into credit so that this salary would be paid to me or paintedly said, if half of our pensioners receive pensions that don't exist in the Peace Fund, the money for them basically exists so that the state owes them. However, when a pensioner receives his pension, he does not realize that the money is a debt, that someone had to take a loan before to pay him a pension. Just because we don't understand this basic fact we're in a situation today that the whole country is on one side in debt, means debt slavery, and on the other hand, without money in cash. And in order to solve the problem of money or let's say it improves state funding or whatever it is, the state went after it to increase tax returns, to put on growing taxes, however, despite growing taxes, tax revenues are falling. One reason for this is that once taxes cross a normal line, their further increase does not lead to an increase in revenue but rather to their decline. The same thing is with local self-government, so the introduction of new duties can only seem to increase the revenues of local self-government. and the logical thing is that the problem of oddity is that everyone sees the problem as personal, but the problem of being single is not a personal problem but a whole society problem, which will say that the problem of insufficient funds in local self-government units is identical and the problem of the state not having enough money and that citizens do not have enough money. So no one has enough money, and it is obvious that the solution to this permanent Kunska mine lasts in Croatia since the introduction of Kuna in '94. No one understands, on the fifth or the conversion of the CNB into a currency exchange office, that this lays down the cause of our lack of money and this law, as well as any other law which will deal with tax changes or tax rates by introducing or abolishing certain taxes, will solve the problem of unemployment in the country. It won't, so you take the general tax code, turn it upside down, and tomorrow there'll be nothing left. Whether VAT is 20% or 25%, it's still gonna be broke. Simply the problems at the level of distribution can no longer be solved, however, they are trying to solve themselves in this way but we can see that they cannot be solved but they have been successfully solved for 20 years. And now what's going on? There are two possibilities. One option is to think outside the box and say if the way we've solved them so far doesn't offer a solution, let's change the way we think about propose another solution and that's a change in monetary policy. It is that the CNB, as I don't know, the European Central Bank, federal reserves and other central banks, simply ceases to be a currency exchange and starts broadcasting money that would be debt-free and that could simply kill two flies with one blow. The problem and the lack of money and overindebtedness could also be resolved, but, of course, the state should first abolish the currency clause. However, since this is the only solution that can get the country out of the game, the apriors 90% of parliamentary deputies say no, cannot change the role of the CNB, the CNB must remain a currency exchange office and for this reason we are returning to today's debate tonight's event with which we are creating an illusion that we are going to solve something. And this law won't solve anything. The situation in the country will simply become more difficult and difficult over time and be careful why. Not because the law may be bad or because the law is guilty of this, of local taxes, or whatever, but the situation will go worse because of so-called. cumulative interest due to complex insertion. Because the debt of the state is growing, the debt of the local self-government unit is growing and the people are also growing, and as they are all in charge, and as interest is accounted for, they are simply sinking and increasing debt. So there's no way out of that debt, ladies and gentlemen. And as it sinks into an ever-increasing debt, as society will be under the growing burden of debt, the state will have to sell out all the property, the units of local self-government will have all the property, the citizens and the companies will have to. And this model that we have accepted leads the entire society to bankruptcy. Some say I'm crazy, some say I'm a clown, some say I'm just a man telling the truth. Which makes me three, it'll show the future. Because one day with a time deviation, 20, 30 or 50 years ago, people will listen to my words and they'll wonder if this man like what he called himself, I think that one young boy in a fairy tale is the new tulip who said that the Emperor is naked and I'm telling you all of you that the Emperor is naked and you're all looking at his great suit and saying how beautiful they are, how beautiful the colors are, how good a tailor etc. But I'm telling you guys, the Emperor is naked. The problem of money and credit crisis will not be resolved by this law, although it is intended to solve the problem of the revenue side of the budget or whatever, but it will not be resolved. Unfortunately, I'm afraid my words fall on, as the people say, fall on closed ears, just my words don't touch you. I can speak here until the day of judgment, you will say, no matter what Pernar tells you, we are not interested in it, but my duty as a citizen of this country, as a citizen of the city where I live, as a member of the people of Croatia to whom I belong, is to show to my compatriots and to all other people living in our country that if this monetary policy does not change, that regardless of the change in tax laws, society will continue to fail. Will you accept as the heart of my word? Will you throw them away? It's just your choice and your decision. My desire is not to destroy you, my desire is not to fight against you, my desire is to beat the monetary system based on a loan with a central bank as a exchange shop along with you. But if you're going to remain loyal to that corrupt financial system that holds us in debt slavery, then I have nothing else to say that tool, but speak against you and fight against you. Although maybe as a person, I love you personally. Here, for example. The HDZ lady who sits there in the second row, I'm personally very fond of her, I just spoke to her and I have absolutely nothing against her and against 90% of the people sitting here in the Parliament, I have absolutely nothing, so I have no personal motives against you. My only desire is for the Croatian people to be free and our country to be a free society where people will not live in economic slavery because what keeps them in economic slavery actually keeps them under constant violence, terror of conduct, terror of unemployment and ultimately poverty. Because poverty is the cause of people being sad and depressed. Poverty is the cause of families falling apart and people fleeing the country. And as long as this financial system is like this, we will live in poverty and sink deeper and deeper. Thank you, folks. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52547	Thank you very much for this debate on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. And now the last, last individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One of the following points is the report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2014/2015. And also the Island Act is in one phase of its advisory, now I don't know what it's like to have these new circumstances with the Family Law changed procedures, where he is now but he'll be somewhere on the way. This report, which will be for 3 points of the agenda, sometime at 2 a.m., is for 2014/2015. but it will probably be something different and worse for 2018. In this law, 16% of income tax has been abolished by municipalities and cities on islands, which has funded capital and development projects on islands for years. These funds have been available to cities and municipalities on the islands since 2002 and have been used to build municipal infrastructure and other capital and development projects. If this law is adopted in this form, therefore the municipalities and cities on the islands will be in a situation where they will no longer have the means to finance important capital and development projects and to those island municipalities and cities that have an index of development greater than 100%, i.e. the 4th and 5th groups of such a bill will drastically cost income from income tax and will not be able to compete with measure 7 from the EU funds. Therefore, the resources available so far will either be gone or will be in compensatory measures much smaller. I also believe that a possible reduction of the inequality between local and regional self-government units should be implemented so that these smaller ones are something that, but not in a way that takes something better than if the state wants to reduce that inequality, some of its assets do so. So the measures I mentioned here will not be affected by units of local self-government that are not on the islands, so in the final draft of the law, given that according to the Rules of Procedure, the proposal also has to be made on the proposed proposals by the representatives, I would suggest leaving these 16% in municipalities and cities on the islands, and I pray that in the explanation of the solution in the final draft of the law in that part of the text, which speaks of the proposals that have been accepted, which I hope or those who are not accepted for not hoping to be answered. And I'd also just like to mention that the redundancy for counties from income tax from 16.5% increases to 17%, I'd say it's actually the 3rd or 4th round of local elections and that that's actually rewarding the counties for the good result of one of the parties participating in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52549	Thank you. If you thought you were going to lose your replica, you were wrong. Dear colleague Dragica Roscic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52550	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, can you tell me, since in part of your debate you have referred to that the implementation of the new law or the adoption of the same islets will be left without being able to use measure 7, which refers to basic services and the restoration of villages in rural areas. Why would they be left without the possibility of implementing measure 7?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52551	The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52552	I may have made a lapus, so islands and municipalities on the islands that have been developed in the beginning are below the line on when they apply for EU funds and even if they met some conditions it would have made them so throw away that they would simply be below. That's it. And I mean, for example, it turns out that the smaller the population, the better the average per capita. So the fewer people on the islands we'll be statistically more developed. I don't think that's the best criterion. But good. I believe that the proposals will be considered since the Commissioners who belong to your island's party also expressed a certain dissatisfaction that will be considered and that a better proposal will come for the second reading. Here's what I sincerely hope for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52553	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the Honorable Secretary of State, Željko Tufekčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs. There I have written a series of notes, however, based on the suggestions and suggestions of others, and I will give myself away from them all, but I will only thank you for this truly exhaustive and comprehensive debate. I'm glad as little there and legs are sick but I'm glad it lasted and we've heard a lot of good and constructive discussions. I thank everyone, and especially I have to admit they've served such direct praises to some who rarely do so. We've heard everything you've been commenting on, and we'll get stenograms, and I believe we'll come to another reading with an even better proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52555	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52556	We move to the second point, this is the Proposal for a Law on the financing of units of local and regional, regional self-government, first reading, P.Z. No. 200, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the draft law on the financing of units of local and regional, regional, self-government and others will be adopted, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most 84 votes in favour, 14 abstentions and 18 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52557	Now we're going to cross over after 7.5 debates at point two. And that's: - Final proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 128; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The amendments were submitted by Ivan Lovrinović, the MOST club, the SDP club, the Live Wall club and the SNAGA. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable parliamentary representatives and MPs. So the final proposal of the Law on the Prevention and Laundering of Money and the Financing of Terrorism is ahead of us. He had fewer adjustments compared to his first reading. I'm going to try with the time this debate is going on so you have more points after all I know. I'll try to be as short as possible. So, at the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament, held on 30.6. this year, a conclusion was reached that adopted the bill on the prevention and laundering of money and the financing of terrorism. During the debate, certain comments and suggestions discussed and here, as compared to first reading, were heard. Therefore, by respecting the observations made during the debate in the Croatian Parliament, Article 46(3), according to the description of the political persons exposed to us from Directive 849 of 2015, which we are essentially harmonising with, a new point 10 has been added, which reads as "Generals, mayors and mayors and their deputies elected under the law governing local elections and in the Republic of Croatia." So, among the politically exposed persons, and precisely on the basis of the proposal that we have heard here in the politically exposed persons, are included the mayors, mayors and mayors and their deputies, as I said. Also, Art. 52. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. opening the account. The Minister of Finance also adopts a regulation laying down minimum technical conditions that must meet the means of video electronic identification, which the bonds, therefore, banks and all those who are bonds of application of the law themselves, will use for the purpose of video electronic identification of the parties. I therefore also consider it necessary to state the reasons for the adoption of this law, which is, above all, a harmonisation with Directive 849 of 2015, and to protect the financial system from money laundering and terrorist financing, which is like legally binding EU acts. This law represents an upgrade to the already established system, preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism in the Republic of Croatia, and further introduces new standards in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, as soon as the applicant wishes to upgrade the already existing system and all to protect the financial interests of the Republic of Croatia. What has awakened the greatest interest and public in the previous days, and as I see it by amendments and clubs, and by your own parliamentary representatives, is the register of real owners. Therefore, the final draft law in Articles 32 to 36 defines the register of real owners as the central electronic database containing data on natural persons, the real owners of legal persons. Therefore, the register of real owners is established to provide accurate information on the real ownership of legal entities established in the Republic of Croatia in order to reduce the possibility of abuse of legal entities to cover the identity of real owners, as potential perpetrators of criminal offences, money laundering, including tax evasion and fraud for terrorist financing. Therefore, the law prescribes that the data from the register of real owners are in the scope and in the manner prescribed by the law available to the following authorising officers. Authorised officials in the Offices for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Authorised Persons of State Authorities and Laws, are the Supervisory Services of the Ministry of Finance, so financial inspectorate, customs administration, tax administration, then DORH, USKOK, PEN USKONK, SOA, HANFA, CNB and others. Banks and other bonds, therefore, themselves, bonds of law enforcement and legal and natural persons proving a legitimate legal interest in obtaining such information. So the data from the register of real owners are not public for the following reasons, namely, we have an opinion, the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency, from 29.8.2016, which states that, in accordance with the provisions of Directive 849 of 2015, the data from the register of real owners are not public data and that the draft law requires only a provision, the data available to persons proving legitimate legal interest. Furthermore, we have the opinion of the legal service of the Council of the EU since 16/12/2016, which states that the link between public access and real property information and the effective enforcement of the fight against money laundering has not been established, and the value, democracy and rule of law on which the EU is based excludes the possibility of leaving the public, to worry about the tasks of law enforcement, including the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, and tax fraud and evasion. Only competent authorities may carry out such activities. Following the above, it was concluded that the general public’s access to information on the real ownership of all business and legal entities and trusts as means of combating money laundering and tax evasion is clearly disproportionate and inappropriate. Therefore, Article 35(1) of the final draft law prescribes the following, justified legal interest of the applicant, legal natural persons shall be deemed to be proven if the following conditions are met at the same time. Data on the real owner of a legal entity established in the Republic of Croatia, for which the application is submitted, are exclusively related to the impact on the legal position of the applicant in court, administrative or other in law-founded proceedings and are required in relation to money laundering, related to predicate criminal acts and terrorist financing. So it's a separate institute, a real-owner institute that is essentially meant to fight against tax fraud, evasion and terrorist financing. And it is that such data will be used precisely by those who, by law, are competent to fight these acts. Therefore, all those who are legally set out will be made available to both the objective and the point of the directive itself and the law itself, and others who are not their own legal interest will have to prove as previously stated. The practice of EU Member States regarding access to the register of real owners is diverse. However, it is necessary to take into account that EU Member States have therefore made different approaches to this problem and that there is no uniform access to the data available from the register of real owners at EU level for the time being. In some Member States, no public access to data from the register of real owners is provided for, for example, by some Member States. in Germany, where only persons proving legitimate legal interest as provided for in this law will be able to access the register of real owners in addition to the competent national authorities and banks and other obligors. So a couple of months ago, Germany accepted a regulation that made it this way and arranged the register of real owners in Germany. Similarly, in France, access to data from the register of real owners in addition to the competent state authorities and banks and other debtors will only be given to persons designated by the competent court. In Austria, in the legislative procedure of the proposed law on the register of real owners, the adoption of the law is foreseen in January 2018, which also proposes that, in addition to the competent state authorities and banks and other mandatory access to the register of real owners, only persons proving legitimate legal interest will be able to obtain access to the register of real owners. In the Czech Republic equally, in Ireland equally, etc. Therefore, the notion of real ownership is not common, nor does it have legal consequences outside professional circles dealing with the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, and the public of this type of register can lead to misunderstanding and legal uncertainty in persons who are not educated in this sense, who are not educated, do not know the problem of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing and thus increase the risks of fraud and other abuses. Therefore, today's final draft law is in line with the 4th Directive on the availability of real ownership data and the same or similar way have been accepted by a number of other relevant Member States. I register for the Ministry of Finance runs the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and will be operated operationally by a actually financial agency. Registration costs are estimated at 3 million and 700 thousand kuna, etc. Regarding the politically exposed persons compared to the first reading, I said local officials, officials of local and regional self-government units were involved. It's a cash business restriction. So the amount, the maximum amount of cash payments defined at 75 thousand kuna level. Infringement provisions and other provisions have not changed significantly or in fact in relation to first reading, so that you would not continue to be burdened with the introduction of this statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52559	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52560	Your Honor, Vice President. My dear secretary, you've listed some of the lands in which it was arranged in this manner. There is probably a much larger number of countries that did not go as restrictively as that of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Finance's proposal. And I think it would be good to think about whether to go this restrictively, whether to call for some legal interest or to go with a formulation of legitimate interest or something like that. So we do not have to refer to examples of countries that are much more orderly than Croatia, much more orderly and we have seen now and this case Agrokor as our institutions have scheduled and why not allow people who for some reason are dealing with a particular problem, why not if there is some kind of legitimate, not just legal interest to give introduction to that base. So I think that we should seriously consider this and we will certainly give an amendment to this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52561	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to representatives' clubs. Before just do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open a debate with the representatives' clubs. The first will be on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative of Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52562	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. We heard the opening argument regarding the final bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. So another one of those European laws, which is about harmonising Croatian legislation with European legislation. In particular, in this case, it is our law that the administrative order of the Republic of Croatia transposes the EU Directive No. 2016/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council on preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. It is a very important regulation, I read it carefully yesterday and the regulation published in the official paper has 45 closely written pages and this final draft of the law we are harmonising our legal order with the legal order of the EU. Since it is a directive and not a regulation, this means that the Republic of Croatia has a certain autonomy to transpose this directive into its legal order and to adapt certain institutes, of course by respecting the key provisions and principles of the European Directive. And what was crucial about the introduction of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, is precisely the register of real owners and who will have the right to see and receive information from that register. In this regard, we have seen in the club MOST independent lists that there are certain differences in us very important between the text of the European Directive and the provision in our final draft law. According to our final proposal for a law under Article 34 which regulates the availability of data on real ownership under paragraph 1 of that Article, these data would only be available to a very narrow circle of authorising officers who would be allowed to have access to that information under the law, and point 4 states that they would also be legal and natural persons who would have to prove justified legal interest. And that very formulation is very specific, and it was just spoken of by a representative of the Ministry of Finance. In fact, the fact is that these formulations are not in the European directive. There's a different formulation, a legitimate interest. It is absolutely certain that there is no similarity even for an ordinary layman who does not have to be a lawyer, it is clear that the expression of legitimate interest could in no way be translated as a legitimate legal interest. Of course, this legitimate interest is not defined, but it is just left to the Member States that when they transpose that directive into their legal order, by passing their law, they are precisely defining this legitimate interest and defining the circle of authorised persons and persons of physical and legal nature who they consider to have this legitimate interest in having access to the register of real owners. However, in the final proposal of our law, it is defined very restrictively. Legal and natural persons proving legitimate legal interest and thereafter in Article 35 shall be defined by that availability of data on the basis of justified legal interest. The applicant will therefore have to demonstrate that he has a legitimate legal interest, meet certain conditions set out in Article 35. Whether there is a legitimate legal interest will be decided by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, so our institution, in the event of refusal of the request of a legal or natural person, is not allowed to appeal, but an administrative dispute can be initiated. We believe that there are very rigorous conditions for a legal or natural person to gain insight into the register of real owners. And as he said very briefly in his replica, my colleague Nikola Grmoja, we believe that our final proposal for the law finds it too rigorous. We believe that even in this matter without preventing the European Directive, we could therefore do less restrictively and that this question of the availability of data from the register of real owners might also allow the use of the existing Law on the right to access information. And this means that whether it is legitimate or justifiable interest of a particular legal and natural person, it would not be decided by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering but would be decided by the Commissioner for Information. The institution established by the Law on the right to access information which determines whether certain information is more important to the public, so that it weighs the legitimate interest of the public to know certain information in relation to the restrictions on the public of certain information because it is classified as secret information, because it is a business secret, because it is a matter of certain personal data or for some other reason defined by the Law on the right to access to information. These days, individual NGOs have responded to this text and to these provisions of the final bill, believing that it would be good and that a better solution would be to include in this final bill the possibility of not defining the legitimate legal interest defined by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering than to implement the whole procedure in accordance with the Law on the right to access to information. Of course, there are number of differences as defined by individual EU Member States, and probably if we were to look at the legislative framework and translate this directive into legislation by the other 27 Member States, we would probably find very different examples. But the fact is that it is incontrovertible, that the directive does not necessarily bring about evidence of legitimate legal interest. Legal interest can be a public interest that will foster its demand by public media, means of public communication, which play a very important role in informing the public or it will be some non-governmental organisation or some third party. That is why, and for this very reason, we at the club have submitted an amendment to the text of the final bill, in a way that in Art. 34. We define differently the availability of information from the register of real owners for legal and natural persons. Therefore, not on the basis of legitimate legal interest, but legal and natural persons would have the right to access such information, i.e. the register in accordance with the law on the right to access information. This means that legal and natural persons could submit a request if the Office’s response to the anti-money laundering would be negative, in which case the legal or natural person would contact the information commissioner, who would then, on the basis of a test of proportionality and public right to know certain information, decide on the issue. Finally, the fact is that the end of this story regarding the availability of information comes down to the launch of a administrative dispute. Therefore, this final bill also provides for a negative response from the Money Prevention Office that a legal or natural person may initiate an administrative dispute. Therefore, in the final administrative court, it would decide whether a legal or natural person has a legitimate legal interest in the provisions of this final draft law. If we were to include here that a legal or natural person may seek access to information in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, in the case of any decision, or a positive or negative Commissioner for Information, the other party which is not satisfied with the solution could also launch an administrative dispute. So again, the Administrative Court would decide on the matter. The difference between our proposal in the amendment and the bill's proposal comes down to the following, the eligibility of the request would not be decided by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, but would be decided by the Commissioner for Information, the institution that we have established and we see no reason why this institution does not bypass the decision-making process, whether legal or natural persons should have insight into certain data in the register of real owners. We just want the existing institutions that we believe are proven, and we can say that now and now after a few years how much the Commissioner for Information works, we can say that this would be a better solution, less restrictive. And finally, we believe that in our legal order, given a number of current situations or similar situations, it is not a waste, this issue is solved in a way that creates better conditions, legal, legislative conditions, that the public may have better quality instruments to learn certain relevant data, and that they are not only available to a very narrow circle of authorised persons. We're not afraid of abuse of information from the register of real owners. We believe that any decision in this regard and the Commissioner for Information would be considered, founded, but rested on the public interest and the test of proportionality. And for this reason, we would not exclude the means of public communication, and certain NGOs interested in the transparency of that type of data, and in this regard we believe that, until the vote of this final bill, the applicant should reconsider and give up a legitimate legal interest which does not rest on the provisions of the directive. And that it should take a broader look at the possibilities of a more transparent legislative provision that would allow a wider circle of legal and natural persons to easily access this data. Of course, given the one hand, the legitimate interest of the public to find out. On the other hand, the possibility that certain data may not be made available to the public for important reasons. But we have full confidence in the institution of the Commissioners for Information, and finally, as I said, the Administrative Court decides on this issue and according to the final draft of the law, and according to the Law on the right to access information. On this point, our decision on this law and the final decision will be important since the legislator will take a position on the amendment that we have already made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52563	Thank you. We have replicas, distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52564	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've got my first question. You'll answer me if I get it right. So, if I'm not mistaken, this is about a directive that requires access to information, so it requires natural and legal persons to have sufficient legitimate interest, while we in the final proposal of the law to formulate that what you said is a proven and justified legal interest. Does this mean that, in fact, but here and more times we have had the opportunity here as Secretary of State of Finance to see, when it comes to certain articles within the law, which suggests calling exactly on the directive and doing so in a way that they cannot be changed, because that is exactly what the directive tells us. And now we actually have a case that is totally opposite of that. So we now have a directive that requires one and then we put in the final proposal for a law a much more restrictive form of what let's say it sets out a directive. Does this mean that the Secretary of State actually uses the directive to, or uses a call to the directive according to what their interests are, or where he wants to call on it and where not, because here is how I see a clear example that the directive actually gives that broad group the right to access information, we actually close it on a tight circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52565	The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52566	Thank you. It is clear and I think that it is unequivocal to all of us here in the assembly that the term contained in the Directive, legitimate interest, has no similarity or touch point with a legitimate, legal interest defined very restrictively in our final draft of the law. In this regard, we believe that the European directive, which leaves a wide range of space for Member States, defines all Member States in their legal order which is legitimate interest. At the end of the line, I personally believe that the legitimate interest of public communications means is that they can obtain certain information that they consider important to the public, regardless of some times being protected by business secrets. Well, look, for example. you now have a series of contracts, you have a series of HBOR loans which, at the request of a particular person, are considered to be a business secret and therefore does not report to the public. But I believe and believe that the public believes that these data should be made available to the public. And the kidnapping will be decided and decided by the Commissioner for Information and decided that this information is relevant to the public and that the public must know it. Therefore, if something is a business secret, it does not mean that it has priority and that it is above the public's right to know certain information. It's just an example of how something that a certain body doesn't think the public doesn't need to know isn't the highest truth. The highest truth is whether it weighs the public's interest. In a specific case, the Commissioner for Information has decided that this is a public interest and that this information should be fully published and that the public has the right to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52567	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52568	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since I also participated in the debate in the first reading, colleague Podolnjak, you said since it was a directive, of course I can adapt to certain institutes in the Republic if I understood you well and that this law, the final bill of law actually very restrictively defines it. The fact is, we've had certain publications of the registry that haven't ended up so famously. But you mention the Commissioner, or the Commissioner for Information, so I'll tell you what she says. It is clear from the provisions of the Directive that such a register is not intended for public publication and public access but is intended to collect and exchange information between competent authorities, therefore the proposal adopted by the Government at its session on 28 September 2017 formally and legally looking at it is not contrary to European law, but in line with the directive and in part of the scope of the parties covering even wider than the Directives require. When talking about practices in other European countries, let's say, Germany, apart from the competent state authorities and banks and other debtors, access to the register of real owners can only be achieved by persons who prove a legitimate public interest. In France, too, only persons approved by the competent court. In Austria, the law is currently in public debate, the adoption should take place in January 2018, where it is said that access to the register of real owners could only be achieved by persons proving their legitimate legal interest again. In the Czech Republic, too, the establishment of a register has been delayed in Ireland due to discussions on amendments to the 4th Directive. According to the latest information, this access to the register would have tax authorities and competent national authorities once it was established. So much so that, of course, is your request for... legitimate but so much for information on the European practice of other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52569	Thank you. The answer to the distinguished representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52570	You are right when you say that the final draft law in these provisions on legitimate legal interest is not contrary to the European Directive. I agree, it is not the opposite and some other European countries have similar formulations. However, I have argued in a speech on behalf of the club that it is much more restrictive than the text of the directive, and there is also a country like Slovenia that is being distracted by the attention that far more liberally regulates this issue. So there are countries that have regulated it as you have listed, as the legislator has said, I do not dispute it. I just said that in Croatia, given the fact that all our institutions, unfortunately in our opinion, are not well enough to monitor the functioning of all entities, you want business and economics, and that we are constantly facing the fact that this surveillance does not work regardless of the institutions that we have created, which should be closely monitored so that we do not experience situations that unfortunately can result in very negative consequences. And that's what we've been very aware of lately. And that is why we believe that in our case we do not need such a restrictive definition and that we must go in accordance with the Law on the Right of Information because we believe that this would make it easier and easier to access certain information. We fear that closing the road exclusively through the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering will in practice prevent all other entities from proving this legitimate legal interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52571	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52572	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome Mr. Tufekčić in front of the promoter, respected colleague and colleague, this is the law on second reading, and what is in it we discussed at the session held on 31 June 2017, and I think it would be good to say what has changed compared to what we discussed. So, two important differences have been introduced, I would point out that we have introduced, or that the applicant introduced point 9 in Article 46, which states that persons who also fall into the definition of politically exposed persons, i.e. PEP, as it is said briefly, are a political exposed person, that the meaning of the municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors and their deputies are elected under the law governing local elections in the Republic of Croatia. That's what was required on the first reading. The second amendment was that Article 52 amended and amended in a way that added new items, 6, 7 and 8 and introduced the possibility of identifying and verifying the identity of the party at a distance on the basis of video-electronic identification for the purpose of establishing a business relationship, e.g. opening an account. In addition, the Minister of Finance shall adopt a regulation laying down minimum technical conditions that must meet the means of video-electronic identification that the bank's bonds will also use for the purpose of video-electronic identification of the parties. What we were still discussing, I can see that in this debate we were headed in the same direction that the data should be as accessible as possible. However, in the past we discussed the protection of personal data and discussed what if, in the case of the collection of these data, banks that were known to occur, they were taking some data for reasons of internal needs, their own needs, not those written by this law, or those that we need to prevent illegally acquired money, that is, to wash the money and to finance terrorism, that is, that is, how we have been clarified by the proposing, that means all criminal rules for that part are prescribed under other laws and that is to be taken into account by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. What you'd like to say is, we mentioned at the beginning of this debate and Mr. Podolnjak, the NGO that advocates that this register of real owners be made available to everyone. In that amendment I've seen, it's from Mr. Lovrinovic, an amendment from his MOST colleagues, we haven't yet accepted that amendment to this law. So no analysis has been carried out regarding this law in order to open this register to the public and the newspapers, or no mention of any data or any fact that, for example, by opening that register, it would reduce terrorist financing, but I say, I have not seen a proposal for an amendment colleague from the Most, perhaps there will be a detailed explanation there, so perhaps that is, at the end and the establishment. Here we have already estimated that even as politically exposed persons should be mayors and mayors, we have extended this on the basis of some of the data that we have received and I agree that all politicians, as politically exposed persons, have a less right to the protection of personal data and privacy, but we still need to have one limit in this. And I would also mention that the Law on the right to access information is very important but we have seen a lot of abuse of that law when it is simply used to prevent the work of certain municipalities, counties and the like. Some simple data are required, and sometimes it turns out that it is not with the aim of informing the public, but of disabling administrative work in units of local self-government, and as far as this public register is concerned, it is very important to stress that in no case has the directive been violated here, on the contrary, this directive is being introduced into our legislation and it cannot be said that this law is much more restrictive than the directive. So this directive gives us the opportunity to determine which legal persons that receive certain data will prevent money laundering or detect it and reduce terrorist financing. In our country it's tax administration, financial inspector, customs administration, police, security intelligence agency. If these amendments prove to be public, that there are journalists, everything is fine, but we still have to suffer when we make amendments that they go towards the law being passed because management with that goal has been carried out certain analyses. If we're going to open individual registers to the purpose of some other potential laws, then we need to process both those positive sides and those negative sides of opening such registers. Well, of course, this is now the final proposal, it's going to go to the amendment, we're going to look at what it says, if it can really be considered justified to enter an open register, and I believe that it will be adopted by both the government and the promoters and us here by the parliamentary representatives. Here and finally, I'd like to say that the HDZ Club will support this law and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52573	Thank you. And we have replicas on your exhibit. The first one is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjca, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52574	Thank you very much. Representative Rosčić, you are therefore talking about preventing money laundering and there are indeed such measures in Croatia that are mostly applied to those poor pensioners and I don't know, people who work for the minimumer. So when he has to open a current account in the bank, he has to fill out 20 pages of forms that he's not a terrorist, he doesn't have five citizenships, which was his war route and what his ancestors did in the 17th century. However, when a man who has money needs to be prevented from being washed, he usually has to open a trust account nicely and you can't trace it because custody accounts are allowed in Croatia. So accounts where you don't know who the real owner is. According to unofficial estimates in Croatia, one quarter of the shares are based on custodial accounts or around 75 billion kuna. I guess those 75 billion kunas don't have ghosts, but they have real people. I don't know, maybe you're the owner of the Tobacco Rovinj Factory, until today we haven't found out who it is. Maybe I don't know her, Mr. Lalovec, the owner of the Zagreb bank because we don't know who owns it either. Maybe Mr. Reiner owns the INA and we can't know that just because custody accounts are so big a state secret. And I believe they're real people. And maybe you wouldn't be surprised if we found out that it's net and among politicians, maybe even someone from this House in that account, so in some kind of property, but here's why this law still doesn't give us the opportunity to find out things like that. And I believe that if you really wanted to do something about preventing money laundering to be the best measure. And as I say, only red tape will accumulate, the citizens will have a lot of discomfort and those who want to steal hundreds of millions of kunas and then move to London afterwards will continue to do so without any major obstacles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52575	Thank you very much. I'd like to be the owner of the INA, but unfortunately I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52576	I thank my colleague Bunjc, instead of telling me maybe I own the Tobacco Factory in Rovinj, some other production, I don't really like tobacco, smoking cigarettes and tobacco. I agree with you in that part, and I don't know if you pointed out in the first reading or by any of your other colleagues, there was a mention of pensioners who were actually doing a small account in which there was no annual traffic being jumped up by all kinds of questions and indeed something like that, and these are the promoters who should not be allowed and will not and will increase the supervision of the Personal Data Protection Agency. And as for custody accounts, and that is, owners of legal and legal persons and everything, that register will be available to those bodies in charge of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52577	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Robert Podlonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52578	Thank you. I don't know why you haven't received our amendment yet, because I know it was arranged and received hours ago. But a very brief review of the part of the exposure. In fact, I am very careful in this law that we transpose the European directive that it is a law that creates a fundamental, legal framework to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. But we need to separately view money laundering as criminal activity from terrorist financing. Fortunately, thank God, Croatia is not as much as we believe and how familiar we are with such criminal activities related to the financing of terrorism. But it is not impossible to have criminal activities related to money laundering and that the law defines exactly in Article 3 what is considered to be money laundering. It is possible that public communication funds and public media in certain situations, on the basis of certain information, would seek to obtain more complete information on the real owners of individual companies,... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that exactly as, on which research journalism rests so that it would be the basis of having access to such information, let's say, in relation to such criminal activities that cannot be excluded from being in every country and possibly also in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52579	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative Rosčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52580	Thank you. I'm really following these amendments, and I'm going to read yours, he arrived after 7:00, not a few hours ago, I guess that's how technically he should have arrived. What I would point out is that I agree with you that there is definitely no need to neglect and launder money in the Republic of Croatia. But I want to add that there is no need to reduce the possibility of terrorist financing by some people who have accounts here, legal persons. So this law has not been passed without meaning and one and the other part of this law should be considered very carefully and I also observe all items of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52581	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. Today we have a second reading, meaning the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, where the Croatian system of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing is harmonising with the European acquis in this area and will therefore be brought into line with the recommendations of the group of countries for the financial action of 2012 and the recommendations of the board of Moneyval from September 2013. The third law in 20 years, which is good, means that however, institutions have to change their working processes less continuously than this morning where we saw that part of the law is about 18, 19 times, so it seems to me in 27 years. So one of the most important issues here was this debate, which means that this proposal to establish this register of real owners as an electronic database of foreign ownership, means from Articles 32 to 36, we're talking about transparency of data that will only be used as much as we've seen institutions here. Now it's debated whether it's given more to the public or whether it's actually left to the institutions. It costs $3.7 million in the register, I believe, from EU funds. The operationality of this is expected in 2018. Maybe another question that we're not here to touch the opening of that register, the issue of the public. Maybe opening that register to entrepreneurs. Because look, somewhere back in 2012, in 2013, when that very large amount of liquidity was in Croatia, it means we're not just talking about terrorist financing, but we're talking about the economic problems that were, so you had about 45 billion kunas of liquidity, or companies that were simply blocked. And then when you tried to determine how it was possible that one large amount of money was found and through various analytical tools actually came up with a dozen companies or a dozen of some directors, we didn't know if they were actually owners or not. The owners actually generated somewhere not to say 70 to 80% of that kind of debt. Now the question is whether it might be good for those entrepreneurs who do business on the market who also don't want to lose money, they don't want to, and they want to work especially with how we are now on the single European market to be able to afford it, because watch when you do major transactions, when you do economic activities, the question is asked, and they want to know not only who is the real owner of the company, not just the Tax Administration whether the tax or the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, to see if there are any criminal activities involved, but believe me, many entrepreneurs want to know, means not only that they are working with some director who comes there, finely present or that a certain card, but they would like to know and protect their specific claims, protect their goods and want to know who they are working with. Perhaps in this context, we should consider allowing entrepreneurs to have those who have, and I hope, I don't know if, how long would it take when they say they want to do, they want to define that they justify their legal interest in that kind of context that they might also be made possible. Because look, they also don't want to lose that money, especially it's not even a problem when you work with someone from Croatia. However, the problem is that now that we are on a single European market, there are a number of entrepreneurs coming in, we know that they come from other countries that are trying to maybe make some money fast, so they do some, start a company for some speculative jobs, etc. Because look, there must be fraud on the single European market today, and not only should we be dealing with state institutions, but we must also protect entrepreneurs so that these entrepreneurs themselves do not come under such a shovel where they could not actually get certain information. And if, in this context, they may also be able to access that register, it might be good in that context and maybe allow them to get that information very quickly, and that they may be technically made available, normally if they are in the making of some kind of contract or want some kind of business cooperation that might allow them to get such information very quickly and that, in fact, they have a certain benefit, which is ultimately to lose, to know which is the real client, who is the real entrepreneur or ultimately the real owner. I believe that these countries, such as Germany, Austria, France, the Czech Republic, Ireland, have many, normally that they, every one of what you and Mrs Roscic have said, mean they have their own, each country has some justification for and against. So that's what it takes when we say we agree that it needs to be made available to the public. However, all of these countries Austria especially, because we know when we talked about, when we were still at the Ministry of Finance, when we discussed the exchange of data with Austria to those who save for example in Austrian banks you couldn't get that information. So even the Ministry of Finance can't get data on people who are saving in the Republic of Austria. Why? Because in this context, they agreed, or protected. Here's how they evaluated their banking system, because you can't get that kind of data, for example, from Switzerland, but you get aggregated data. So probably both these countries and Austria and Germany, etc. It's normal for them to look at their own interests in this context. The Republic of Croatia should also see its interest in this context. And I hope that in that context and those analyses are carried out when it comes to this, when a law like this is here and proposed. We certainly welcome these other things to Article 46. So where the politically exposed persons are added, the individuals who carry out the activity, means the public duties, means the municipal chiefs and the mayors and the mayors, their deputies, because I think it's certainly welcome. As far as transactions are concerned, I can see that there hasn't been much change in that and that you've only explained more in detail than those transactions and that below 200 thousand kunas that banks have to carry out too if they suspect that some kind of criminal action is going to have to report it to the office, so that's where I think the argument is ok. Then we don't have to drop that part. And I'm telling you once again about this question of the register of real owners, that perhaps in this context we should consider both entrepreneurs and their benefits that might, perhaps, I don't know whether the Croatian Employers' Association or the Chamber of Commerce, or whether it might mean it or not in the talks with them, and certainly allow them to access it in one way to ultimately protect their business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52583	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52584	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lalovec, I have now read the proposal for an amendment to the Most. It is also done, so it is also proposed that this register of real owners be opened precisely for the reasons of entrepreneurship, the economy, a global partnership initiative is mentioned in 2016 when this same global partnership initiative stressed the need to make economic and entrepreneurial investments better if such data were opened. Of course, you have pointed out that, not within this law, so that you would like to make one comment, that all those who advocate it can make some kind of communication or implementing acts, can be defined as justifiable interest. And I believe that you and I are both at our disposal to make sure that this is taken into account with the restoring ministries involved. Obviously, the Ministry of Economy, which, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, would define it as a legitimate interest and should probably also be in charge of a person who would decide whether it is a legitimate interest or not. But it wouldn't be like a colleague of Podolnjak, speaking in his debate, a person, a Commissioner for Access to Information, but a person who really deals with economic and entrepreneurship issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52585	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52586	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with you colleagues, if this is what we're discussing here, to see if it's an entrepreneur's interest, which doesn't necessarily have to be a public interest, it's a much wider interest. It's the interest of the media, the interest of government or NGOs. However, here it is specifically done, as I was talking about the case where unfortunately, many of these projects that were done in the Republic of Croatia remained ultimately only firms, remained as a ficus of the firm and were eventually not found. They had appointed some kind of directors, and it was even listed where they registered some not to tell homeless people about such firms, and for real owners they actually even paid them to register for such companies and then they made a quick circular scam. So that's what this is about, if it were for entrepreneurs who wanted to work with them, if they could justify getting such quick information, I think it would be one step to this general opening of this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52587	Thank you very much. We move on to individual debates, distinguished MPs Miro Bulj. You're giving up. Okay. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, he's not here. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52588	So now we're going to vote. The first point of which. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52589	I'm calling at this point because I didn't know where else to go. So, it ends this session running. However, I would just like to ask the Rules of Procedure of Articles 140 to 144, which refer to MPs' questions, do something for the simple reason that the Government of the Republic of Croatia absolutely ignores our parliamentary representatives and does not answer the questions that we ask. It's 30 days, but that doesn't mean you have to wait 31 days. However, we haven't answered any questions at all. Therefore, I ask you, in accordance with Article 144, to do what you have the right to do as President of the Parliament and to warn the Government to suit us on time. Because the purpose of our question is to point to a problem and try to solve it as soon as possible. This way these questions lose their meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52590	Okay. I'll warn the government if he's late and I have good news. Today, I hope we will also vote on the outside members of the Anti-Corruption Council. Okay. We're going to vote now. First we're going to determine the quorum of course, so please sign in. I find that we have a quorum and that we can decide by the rules that exist. So the first thing we're voting on is the final draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 128. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Ivan Lovrinović, the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, SDP Representatives' Club, Live Wall Representatives' Club and SNAGA. I ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. This is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Željko Tufekčić, please. The first amendment is the amendment of the Professor. Lovrinovica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52591	So the amendment is not accepted. All four amendments received relate to the register of real owners, i.e. to the availability of data from the register itself, i.e. Article 34. Final bill. The solution in the final draft of the law is that the data from the register of real owners are available to the competent institutions and other authorising officers prescribed by law, and to legal and natural persons if they prove justified legal interest. Namely, the purpose of the collection and processing of personal data on real owners, legal entities established in the Republic of Croatia is to prevent money laundering and related predicate offences including tax fraud, and to prevent terrorist financing. These activities are just being carried out by the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, such as the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Tax Administration, the DORH, the MUP, the SOA and other competent institutions, which have provided direct access to the data contained in the register by this law. That approach in the final draft law is in line with the opinions of the Data Protection Agency as well as the legal services of the Council of the European Union. In its opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data submitted during the consultation with the interested public, the AZOP stated that, in accordance with the provisions of Directive 849 of 2015, data from the register of real owners are not public data, and the AZOP considers that the law requires that the data from the register be made available to persons proving legitimate legal interest. In addition, in the above opinion of the legal service of the Council of the European Union, the number. From 16 December 2016, the link between the public access to real property information and the effective enforcement of the fight against money laundering has not been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52592	Thank you. Time's up. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52593	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I express my great surprise and dissatisfaction that the government did not have the ear to recognize one of the biggest problems in Croatian society and economy. Well, isn't it precisely this practice of hiding the establishment of a company behind the company that led us to lose track, to darken money, to have so many problems and not to know what's going on? So is this not a sign, is this not a message to all those who have destroyed many suppliers, that they are hiding behind new companies that are opening up? Who's afraid of the information that someone started one, two or five new companies. Only those who have an unclean conscience are afraid of it. I express a great surprise, but this favors hiding money, and this also suits all these actions that you here, Mr. Secretary of State, have listed in your presentation. We've been through conversion and privatisation, there's a lot of things left hidden, we can't get to that data. Here's the best sign of how this government works, how most of it works, doesn't want to be done transparently, so we know that we can find people behind companies that are not solid. I really don't know what to say, let the public judge for themselves, we have put these amendments with the best desire, the will, to increase transparency, to finally discover people who create riots in the Croatian economy, who are unsolicited and lead others to ruin, and here we see what the message is. I'm sorry, I'm expressing a great dissatisfaction... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52594	Are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52595	I absolutely demand a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52596	Then we approach the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We now move on to Amendment number two, the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52597	The amendment is not accepted, the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52598	Would you like to speak more, colleague Lovrinović?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52599	I don't think it makes any sense, but I said, I see what direction it's going in, that transparency here isn't the goal, so I see there's no point in further discussing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52600	So you're pulling back?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52601	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52602	Okay, let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. We now move on to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, it is one amendment, and sorry, two amendments are the same as in this case to Article 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52603	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reason as for the previously reasoned amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52604	Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52605	On behalf of the promoter, to remind ourselves, as a club of representatives, we have submitted an amendment asking that legal and natural persons based on and in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, have access and insight into the Register of Real Owners. We believe that the government's approach is unfortunately extremely restrictive, that it completely misreads the EU directive, which mentions the formulation of access to legitimate interest in such a register. Unfortunately, the government has turned into a legitimate legal interest without any legal justification. It is indeed sad to insist, despite media insistence, not government associations, a series of representatives' clubs, to insist on such a restrictive approach. We believe that it is completely unwarranted, that there is no foothold at the European authorities' point of view, because in a number of European countries that have also implemented this directive, it is clear and complete access to legal and physical persons in this register. We do not have to go further, in neighbouring Slovenia, that register is open to legal and natural persons, so if possible in the neighbouring country, why would any legal interpretation be illegal here? We're asking of course to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52606	Then let's move on to a hunger on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to amendment number two of the same clubs, that's on Article 35. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52607	The amendment is not accepted. The interpretation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52608	Thank you. A fellow Downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52609	Of course, the argument is the same, for formal reasons we are asking for a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52610	Then let's join the vote on this amendment as well. I find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so it is not accepted. Let's move on then, now the Club of Representatives of the SDP, also on Article 34 and Article 35, so all the same as in the cases before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52611	The amendment is not accepted, the justification is the same as in the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52612	I'd like to ask a colleague of the coat of arms on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52613	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to the arguments previously given by my colleagues, I would point to your misreading of EU law. In particular, Directive 2015/849 speaks of legitimate interest. Legitimate interest. You've limited it further in this law. You are talking about legitimate legal interest, which is an additional restriction and makes it difficult for all those who will want to make an insight into this register, access to those data that will be inside. The solution proposed by our amendment somewhat different from those of the previous amendments speaks the following. This register was not published in such a way as, for example, the Court Register, that everyone could freely search it via the Internet, for example, but the provisions of the Access to Information Act would be applied in such a way that, in a specific case, the register holder of the register, in any case, decides whether or not to grant an insight, but after that, if the Agency does not approve an insight, we have the right to contact the information commissioners that we deliberately separated from the Personal Data Protection Agency just in order not to conflict with the interest of protecting or preventing the data and the interest of data being made available and to assess whether any information should be made publicly available or not. More importantly, such a procedure also carries a guarantee of judicial protection, the right to access information that I will remind myself of under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Of course we insist on voting on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52614	Then let's first vote on the 1st amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now, please vote on the 2nd amendment. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now we're going to the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Club. They also made two amendments to Articles 34 and 35. In the name of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA's esteemed colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52615	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I understand, in addition to all that my colleagues have said before me, we are in favour of transparency, we are in favour of all custody accounts and that is one trend as described in the amendment that the developed world is following and following and there is no reason for Croatia to do the opposite, to conceal any interests. [[Adversity President: It's the same explanation, it's all the same, so it's the same text, there's no need.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52616	Then let us join the vote on the 1st Amendment of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club. Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. And right now, I'm asking that we join the vote on the 2nd amendment. I also find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so it is not accepted. So then we move to a vote on the final draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Please, let's vote. ... All right, then let's call off the vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52617	Thank you, Mr. President. In the present case, it is the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Subject law lays down the conduct of state bodies which are intrusive in citizens' rights such as the right to privacy, to keep banking secrets and the like. This means that the law in question restricts the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to human rights and fundamental freedoms, which means that in the case in question it is an organic law. In order to prevent the failure to pass this law from falling in the Constitutional Court, I ask you to vote on this law as an organic law. You and I both know what the content of it is, and you and I know what it means to prevent money laundering and to finance terrorism in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52618	Yeah, but I didn't get a tip from the motion that it was an organic law. Your proposal is here, however, we will hold a vote, if you will consider that the law has not received the required number of votes, you will then address the competent institution. So I'm asking you to join the vote. That law received 79 votes, so most, 9 were abstentions, 1 was against. The law was passed that way. And given the number of votes, nothing will be disputed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52619	We move on to the following proposal, we have four more laws, I'm just paying attention to that attention, to do it today is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 196 The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings by means of an emergency procedure, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HNS Club, the Mosta Club and Representative Ranko Ostojić. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Zarko Kartic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52620	... MPs, I warmly welcome you all. [[Specially enabled.]] And here, let me briefly state the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. First of all, I want to state the reasons why the government is proposing to pass laws in an emergency procedure. In this proposal for legislation, 3 European Directives are transposed into Croatian legislation, namely the Directive on periodic technical checks on motor vehicles and their trailers, the Directive amending the Vehicle Registration Documents and the Directive on road checks on commercial vehicles operating in the Union. The deadline for the transposition of these Directives was 20.5.2017 and the rules should enter into force on 20.5.2018. Because those directives have not been transposed into Croatian national legislation, we received on 19 July of this year 3 official notices from the European Commission on infringement of law, and therefore we propose to adopt the incorporate of these directives by emergency procedure. Similarly, an official notification by the European Commission's Secretary-General on 22 July 2016 was received against the Republic of Croatia for breach of EU law, namely because of the non-compliance of Croatian legislation on the establishment of auto-schools with EU legislation. About that later. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure, in an emergency procedure. In the case of auto-schools, therefore, the establishment of auto-school operations is not in line with the Internal Market Services Directive since 2006 because of the number and network of auto-schools, as regards the status of auto-school professionals and the price to be determined for the passing of the driving test. This law harmonizes our legislation with the Directive in such a way that there will be no longer a obligation to determine the number and network of auto-schools, but gives the Minister responsible for Home Affairs the power to prescribe the minimum standards that auto-schools must comply with. In the case of professional persons, the school head, lecturers and driving instructors must continue to have auto-schools but it is not prescribed that these persons must work full or half-time rather than with as much as there is a need and each of these persons if they meet the conditions can perform more of these tasks, so they can be, for example, a guide and a lecturer. In the Republic of Croatia, about 380 auto schools operate and we estimate that they will continue to be able to operate and that it can potentially open up more competition among them. I would like to highlight a few more important issues that are proposed to regulate this law, for example the definition of a young driver. The young driver is a person who, because of his participation in traffic, according to our records, commits crimes and crimes more frequently than other drivers and therefore remains the definition that it is a motor vehicle driver up to the age of 24 who owns a driving licence issued on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So there remains a age limit, and there are still other restrictions that existed, for example, that young drivers should not consume alcohol and that the limit for it is therefore 0.0 permeated, so not 0.5 as for other drivers. And some of the provisions so far, such as the power of the engine, the vehicle, the engine that could be operated by 85 kilowatts, have been abolished by the Constitutional Court. So the young driver would now be the person who got the driver's license in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the current definition which included these and foreign drivers did not prove effective and did not allow certain measures to be imposed, the system of criminal points could not operate there, etc. When I mentioned negative breaking points, a new, simpler system was introduced. Thus far, after the collection of 12 negative points, a vehicle management ban has been imposed, and only after it has been prescribed is the suspension and withdrawal of the driver's licence. Now we've only defined ourselves for the elimination and withdrawal of the driver's license that will be withdrawn after 9 negative points for the young driver, so we're also making a distinction between the young driver and the other drivers and the 12 points collected for the other drivers. In this respect, the driver will not be able to manage a motor vehicle within a period of 2 years from the execution of the solution and will not be able to access the new driver’s test so as not to gain the right to drive on its own. I would point out that, according to the transitional and final provisions, all the negative points collected would be deleted by the entry into force of this law, so they would all start with, without negative points and the procedures that have started under the provisions of the applicable law, so that they would be completed under the provisions of this law. In order to protect particularly sensitive categories of persons in traffic such as cyclists, the obligation to wear a reflective vest on all public roads is introduced under conditions of reduced visibility or at night. Then, when subjecting to an extraordinary medical examination of the driver, we introduce new news that even drivers who have been found with less than 1.5 alcohol spills in the blood, so from 0.5 to 1.5 will be subjected to an extraordinary supervision health check if they are found within a 3-year rehabilitation period three times with that percentage, i.e. alcohol spills in the blood, from 0.5 to 1.5%. It was noted that there was a significant number of drivers who often found themselves managing a motor vehicle with an illicit amount of alcohol in the blood and wanted to catch them and such persons, to strengthen medical control over such persons. It remains, therefore, that the person caught, found with 1.5 spills of alcohol in the blood, that one such case is sufficient to refer the person to an extraordinary medical examination. In some news, which may be interesting for citizens in terms of lower costs, I set aside the fact that this law will abolish the so-called law. Zeroth Technical Review. So, for a technical examination, citizens will go with a new vehicle, so with a new vehicle only after 2 years and with cargo vehicles after 12 months. Therefore, the greater emphasis is placed on the examinations of commercial vehicles on the road. So this is also introduced through the Technical Surveys Directive on the roadways of commercial vehicles that I mentioned at the outset. And the next thing that would make it easier for citizens is that the registration of a vehicle with the current authority of the technical inspection station, which is to extend the validity of traffic licences, so that the technical inspection stations can now also carry out vehicle registration operations. In doing so, we estimate that it will be cheaper for citizens for 35 kuna and that it will be deprived of walking between the technical inspection station and the police administration and the station when it is necessary to replace, for example, the completed traffic permit. In order to refuse registration in the technical review, it shall be possible to make an appeal to the Ministry of Home Affairs as a second-degree body. Here are the most important changes. We propose that certain provisions concerning auto-schools enter into force on 1 January and provisions concerning the implementation of these Directives to enter into force on 20 May 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52621	Thank you very much. Here's to your exposure despite our late hours of replication, Anka's first distinguished representative, Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52622	Thank you very much, Vice President. No matter how late the clocks are and how many dots, you can see that the only way to go is to grow the night. However, my replica to the gentleman, or question, is better said, to Secretary of State Katic, is related to the school. So you said that there are 380 auto schools, you said that these changes that are just going to liberalize auto schools and that they will allow people to work differently and you said something that's always convenient, and that's the rule that's going to be passed by by a minister who's going to break down the working conditions. You know, when we look at a little bit of our laws or amendments and the law additions, then there's a bunch of rules, so there's some deadlines. These laws speak of certain deadlines in transitional and final provisions. I am interested specifically in this Regulation, because, of course, auto-schools will not be able to comply with the law only but also with the rule, when you think the minister, and the minister, adopts a rule, if that rule is required after this law enters into force, which is the time limit and in which it is prepared, and when it is expected to be that rule, because in order for auto-schools to really be able to agree, the same rule is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52623	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52624	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary, we are all for liberalisation, but in some things we must think, i.e. Think first of all when we talk about auto-schools, about the standard of these auto-schools. the kind of young driver we train and whether these standards in Croatia are good and whether the standards will be reduced. So somewhere we have to think about it, that we can't let worse standards of training and the minister has been given the authority to prescribe his rules. All competencies have absolutely to do with auto school, means minister, and the fact is that Slovenia, I also said on the board that Slovenia took our way of school, you know, that's what I said back then. You said that you were not familiar with this, but the fact is the basic and most important, we must not allow the standard of new drivers in auto-schools to fall in Croatia because it is too great a power for the minister to prescribe which auto-schools, which are minimum conditions, how are the people who are going to train those children, i.e. instructors. So one system that's somewhat arranged certainly needs to be looked after, but that's basically to keep an eye on the standard of new drivers. That's what I asked you then and on the board, how can anyone guarantee a driver's standard if it's a rulebook that anyone can open a car school? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52625	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representatives of Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52626	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Chairman, the esteemed fellow that you are still here. I would also like to point out the provision of Article 233. The road safety law which creates significant problems in the day-to-day work of doctors in particular selected doctors in primary health care, since it imposes on them the obligation to report to the competent authorities on the observed changes in the health status of drivers considered an obstacle to the safety of motor vehicle management, in particular taking into account the number of such conditions prescribed by the Regulation on health checks on drivers and candidates for drivers. In the section of the normative arrangement, we propose a step forward on the matter of reporting in changes to the driver’s health condition in such a way as to no longer prescribe the obligation to report directly to the competent authority by the doctor on all observed diseases and conditions of drivers affecting safe driving management. You yourself know how many attacks on doctors are and how we try to prevent such incidents and this will be just another cause because someone who has a driving license for years after the doctor reports on his health condition, especially a person who may be a longtime alcohol user with changes in certain and psychological especially sometimes reduced inhibitions, control of your reactions, you can expect from such a man to attack a doctor. Therefore, we believe that the future should contain only the obligation of the doctor to warn the patient or the driver of the observed change in health status and that the day of warning should be recorded in his medical records and the patient should primarily take responsibility for his health status, non-recommendation and warnings given and recorded in the medical records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52627	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club and Reformists, the Independent Representative of Rezimir Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52628	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State and Associates, will try to be brief. First of all, I'm a general grader. I am pleased that my discussion and discussion of colleagues in the first reading have also contributed to the fact that you have not entered into the obligation of compulsory medical examination of persons over 65 years of age into amendments and additions to the laws. So that government president's promise to whom I referred a direct question that he would carefully consider the bill has really kept it. However, I am very pleased with the bill's proposal, but I am not pleased that the old practice is repeating that only the European Commission or the European Court of Justice has warned us then we are going to the urgent procedures and procedures for the adoption of the law. I'm not happy with that. I think that kind of practice should be abandoned. The second is in Article 23. The law amending and supplementing the law provides for an extraordinary health review to be referred to by a driver who is at least three times legally punished for driving a vehicle with an illicit amount of alcohol in his blood. And now we come to the next situation. This law whose proposer is the de facto ministry let me tell the police. I am interested in why he is not present and the representative of the Ministry of Health is also here because of this part of the replica that Strenja Linic, a respected colleague, presented. Namely, she made one statement to KHOM that is the Association of Family Medicine Doctors who have problems in situations where, according to certain diagnosiss, it is prescribed in the end line and the directive is obliged to inform the competent authorities of certain health problems relating to minimum standards of psychophysical ability to drive vehicles. So it's not about age, it's not about age, it's about age, it's about age, it's about age, it's about age of driver's life, it's about types of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, militus, malignant hypertension, visual problems, mental disorders, drugs, medicines, neurological diseases, and obstructive apneic syndrome, and other things. And now we're coming to give you the next problem. COHOM warns, and I also talked to several doctors and family medicine doctors about having problems with their patients. Namely, when, and by law, they are required to report. They don't know if he's a driver or not, but when they find out this kind of disease, they're bound to report in the end line and the Ministry of the Interior. And then there's a situation that either after a relationship or whatever he normally says, and the old man, I'm sorry, but your doctor or your doctor sent it to me and you're gonna have to go to a health checkup or we're gonna have to cancel your license. And then we have that problem between the patient and the doctor. I don't know how you're gonna handle this. We're not all in the E-Citizen system. How are you gonna handle this? I don't know, but you need to take care of it. Because what you're actually writing in the bill of law is pure police work by the Traffic Police. When he finds someone under the influence of alcohol, he's known to be going for a blood test, and so on. But this remains as a problem of synergy between health care and competent authorities, in this case, the Ministry of the Interior. However, it remains a provision that has not been amended, so it is not subject to the amendment and addition of this law, which is required by a health examination of drivers over 70 years old. I don't know what the problem is, because I turned 70 in 2014 and got my driver's license for the next 10 years. I ask you what medicine knows about me as a patient? I've been putting some dice in there, doing some tests, getting my blood out, my urine, it's over. So, 10 years, over 70, I drive without a problem and maybe I have a diagnosis here's an apneic what it's called syndrome. So that's the problem. Why am I saying this? Because the directive applies to all countries in the EU, but their practice is different. Let's say an example. In Denmark, the driver’s license is renewed after seventy years with the confirmation of a family doctor. Who has better knowledge of the patient, the driver than the family doctor who's been following him for years. In the Netherlands, after 70 years, it is extended to five years without medical examination. In the UK, it is done after 70 years without medical examination, but every three years with a driver's personal statement. In Finland, too, after the 70th renewals depend on a family doctor, while in Germany, France and Belgium there are no age-limits. So it's not the subject of amending and supplementing the law. You didn't enter what I was afraid of, and what you didn't, and what you did was not necessarily a mandatory review after 65 years, because I fought against the age limit. The age limit is not a limiting factor for driving. We have extended the working age to 67, life span is otherwise extended, and we are limiting, we are taking that age limit criterion, and the directive is something else. However, since you did not come with a proposal to amend and supplement in terms of 65 years of mandatory medical examination, my club will accept this proposal of the Road Safety Act, so the amendment and addition of the Road Safety Act with the final proposal and we will accept the amendment that we have only so far received, which the Club of Representatives of the HNS Liberal Democrats gave in terms of labels that are not necessarily reflecting the vests at the bicycle for certain roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52629	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representatives of Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52630	Well, about what Varda said, what I actually started to say, which is that primarily a patient should take responsibility for his own health, not following the recommendations and warnings given and recorded in the medical records by a doctor, and thus implement the obligation to which Article 196 applies. This law, which prohibits driving a vehicle to a driver who is sick or in such a mental state, is incapacitated for safe driving. Therefore, it was necessary in the legal text to further awareness of the driver's responsibility for his health and the need to report to the competent authority on the change in his health condition. Now, the responsibility is therefore on the informed patient, that I decide whether to follow a given warning and refrain from driving a motor vehicle or not. But it is absolutely unacceptable that the Croatian medical chamber also said in its remarks that it is that the doctor will be punished if he does not report it to the authorities. So, I particularly find it inappropriate to punish only a doctor with a fine, in case of non-recognition of the observed change of health. Col. Vard also mentioned, therefore, we are able to get rid of this via e-Citizens, i.e. each has its own e-Carton, medical records, that it is primarily solved by a real programme between the Ministry of the Interior and HZZ when the doctor types in a certain diagnosis, since it is networked to present it immediately to the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. those who are responsible for issuing his driver's license. And by doing so, the doctor will not be directly punished, he will not be directly subject to, or target to whom the patient will attack. It's known what a health condition is, and if he's getting into a certain drug, an antiepileptic, an antipsychotic, it's also considered something that makes it impossible for him to move on, a driver's license. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52631	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Rechimer Vard.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52632	Yes, colleagues Linic, doctors when punished from 3 to 15 thousand kunas, if they do not comply with this obligation to apply. But when that application comes, like I said, when they fill it out, the doctor doesn't know if someone's the driver. They don't have it on the record. They don't have it in their records, it doesn't say driver's or it's not a driver's license. Anyway, he's got a list of diseases. Which, when establishing them, must be notified to the competent authority. If he reports it, then we come into this situation, that we have an attack and even physical attacks on doctors. Because normally, he says, the doctor turned you in. And that's what needs to be solved. Is that through the system of e-citizens, and we're all in that system. My doctor, for example, is not, either, a doctor of family medicine. And she has no idea who the driver is. She has no idea, because it's not our obligation, and I'm obliged to tell her. Therefore, you need to find a solution, that it is, that doctors can, for the sake of traffic safety, that doctors are able and that they must report it, but to be protected, from harassment and from attacks by such drivers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52633	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52634	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honored colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, dear secretary of state. The proposal to amend and supplement the Road Safety Act agrees with those who do not feel necessary, that in some way, any threats, penalties or, in breach of European law, we should be forced to make certain changes happen. In principle, there are positive things in the draft of changes and additions. First of all, those who increase safety, along with small details, such as the question of reflective vests, or other equipment that would increase the safety of cyclists. I also agree with that part, which has already been presented in the HNS amendment, but I am of the opinion that a lot more could be done. However, first of all, I will focus my discussion on the part that I think is bad, that is, that you did not actually listen to the proposals that relate first of all to the question of education, that is, the education of our drivers. Just the name of the auto school, it speaks of, however, being a public institution, an institution that could be privately owned, but there are standards that were respected and that made a network in the system, complete education of the driver, in a way that we could be sure that the instructor's licenses were equally not an obstacle within the school, i.e. they were some sort of guarantee that we would be able to get a quality, trained driver, whether he was young or in quotes called "young". I also have to mention the part about drivers we treat as young, which is the part where they pass a driving test from 19 to 24, and if you do it behind 24, then you're not a young driver. I think there's a missing part of the provision that would speak to those who are participants and about their additional education, which is primarily the person who should be with them in the car during that period. Therefore, it was necessary to work harder to sanction this part, or if this young driver is missing, I will now tell my companion, the one who helps him with his education. However, I welcome those changes that go towards increasing security, even the question of criminal points, so I think it is also very important to welcome that segment that says that after 24 months or for new cars that there is no need to go to technical inspection, these are positive segments. But to go back to auto-schools and the very process of training candidates for drivers, other than health institutions, companies engaged in medical work, medical specialists, HAK, auto-school medical institutions were one of the most important segments within which they had a teaching subject to traffic, safety rules, driving management. And when we go to watch all they actually have their price, they have their own compensation, service and fees. In this way, by justifying liberalisation and the alleged competition, I'm sure we're actually reducing quality within the auto-school situation and I think it's wrong. The question of the minimum price that even the Republic of Slovenia is introducing at the moment after the bad experiences they have had precisely because of what those who have long been in line with EU regulations and with the situation that happened to them next to our entire network of schools that we have they have actually returned to the model that we are currently terminating at this time. The situation is going in that direction and that means that car schools that lose actually the kind of quality, the minimum price in which the question is whether existing car schools that have had to meet the high criteria of driving education, will no longer be. And that is why I am expressing my skepticism and it is my opinion that this is not a good solution, especially as speedy as this is, that since January 1st, changes that would lead to alleged liberalisation and, in my view, lead to the danger that we are actually going to have to change this law very soon because we are going to face what is contrary to exactly the EU's efforts and it is a white book that we have less fatalities on the highways. I would also like to point out one more thing and this is that so far the units of local and regional (regional) self-government have been the ones that, with the previous agreement of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, have regulated traffic in their area. This stems from, among other things, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the law and the current practice in me was better than the solution offered, because I will try to illustrate it through a very plastic picture. Now that the city of Split or the County of Split-Dalmatia or any unit of local self-government wants to set up a traffic sign of the speed limit of movement give a warrant for setting that sign, they get consent in an irregular procedure and the point is that it is a relatively simple situation in which they are exactly sticking to what the Constitution says and that is that, among other things, transport and transport infrastructure and planning are exactly in the units of the regional (regional) self-government, Article 135, paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The question now raises why the Ministry of Interior is taking it upon itself and will issue a solution. This particular example, meaning the specific police administration of Split-Dalmatia, is the situation where we have four employees working on these jobs. It does not matter their personnel structure, which is that it is only 1 traffic direction, but they will have to issue a solution to the setting of any sign. For 55 units of local self-government only in the Split-Dalmatia county will cause serious problems and practices that will in fact make it impossible for all those who need to regulate traffic safety on the roads lead to this solution not even having the right to appeal but can only go to an administrative dispute. It is contrary to the Constitution, it is contrary to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and I do not see in fact why the Ministry of Interior takes itself and makes an additional problem. For this reason, it has not yet come to your table, but in any case you will receive an amendment to this Final Proposal of the Road Safety Act, which I do not think has any need to change, which is when traffic is arranged on the part of the public road within the administrative borders of the unit of local and regional self-government needs the consent of a legal person who manages the public road. And that's something that I think is a much better solution than what's being offered right now. I'll mention one more thing, and that's when we talked about road safety, of course it's not possible in changes and supplements to cover everything but the truth is the next, and that's that other than car school, education and everything else has to be done on the issue of the National Road Safety Programme, to regulate the issue of other institutions working with public authorities, in terms of road safety. And in that part, I'm sure more could be done if we were going that way. This way, I think that the cover is in some way in the directives that come from the EU, and in some ways it's all about a few changes that only apply to the question of auto school, and I'm going to say some cosmetic details that I don't think it's going to help to the end just from road safety, but we're going to be in a situation where there's got to be more surveillance, repression and the like, and it's not done in the best possible way by these amendments and additions to the laws. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52635	Thank you, too. And that replica, the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52636	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, that question I asked the esteemed secretary of state, so he did not answer now about the school's car and opened his colleague Ostojic in his debate. So, when the bill was made some time ago, the media brought a lot of attention to the topic of auto school. She challenged two basics. One basis was the price of auto school, and the other was professional teamwork. I usually think it's a good idea to liberalize the market a little bit and maybe in terms of prices, but I can agree that it was some kind of minimum standard, maybe some kind of minimum price that should be. However, we did not have the opportunity to see from this bill what professional teamwork means, or guarantee that these auto-schools work professionally, but it was said that this would be defined by a subsequent regulation which would be specified in detail, and the Regulation would be passed by a minister. So in fact, in that sense, and I'm interested, you've shown one fear, and you've shown one to say so to the skeptic why that is. And if I understand correctly, you somehow have the view that this bill is a step back, not an improvement of the existing one, or there is a problem with the directive because you always have a regulated area that you have to take over certain directives. But you also have an area where every country can adapt to its existing practice, to existing situations. I guess that's when there was one problem in wanting us to be very ideal and to adapt to EU directives. Obviously, we may take a step back, or we will not offer the best possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52637	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52638	Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, I am indeed skeptical first of all for the reasons that every school, which I insisted on in my debate, implies that there are certain criteria that must be met by those who educate in this particular case young drivers. The downturn of these criteria cannot be, or cannot, any directive has the justification to bring these criteria down. I'll try to illustrate it in a very simple way. Try to imagine that in the situation of liberalization of private schools we come to the fact that you can also take people from the student service or that you can work according to the contract of action. The situation in Slovenia, which I briefly tried to present, has shown that this is exactly the kind of situation that led to the fiction of teaching, the situation that contracts were used for fictitious education. And the final story in the end that they went back to a solution that provided minimum standards, which is that we have a quality car school. And for that reason, not to share concerns, but I don't see why liberalization, of course, and as it is said by competition, but competition must be within those criteria, which is that we have quality schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52639	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the time will be shared by the distinguished representative Orepic and the representative of Strenja Linic. Here's First Honored Representative Vlaho Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52640	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues. Well, at first I'll say, I'm sad that we're leaving something that works in one segment in particular. So we're leaving the model that others are going back to. Here is where Mr Ostojić pointed out this problem and on this law, the rest of his parts more or less changes are we can even freely say cosmetics, so I will hardly give my review just as far as auto school is concerned. So the law is completely incomplete, completely incomplete about it. And be careful now he does not respect the rights acquired and no negative consequences are considered absolutely. The law is very limited in comparison to the standards achieved and the existing entrepreneurs of the sector lead to an unequal working-law, socio-economic and final tax situation in relation to the benefits that new entrepreneurs can now benefit from under the proposal, so those who fall within the profit of up to 300,000 kuna. It is not at all a redundancy of the economy which is not in line with the action plan of this Government which is in force and gives the negative financial effect of this law only in the first, so the assessment is, so only in the first 12 to 18 months after the application, the negative effect will be at the level of 70 million kuna. This law also one part chokes the existing developed economic relations in activities in the Republic of Croatia and opens up the possibility of speculative treatment for active and future entrepreneurs using higher legal forms of establishment. It will not receive the expected effect of a realistic new car school at all, but exclusively restructuring, reorganisation and dispersion of existing entrepreneurs or existing professional employees. So we'll get a further departure of expert personnel from one activity to another or even leaving the Republic of Croatia which I hope is not our goal. This law really does, when we talk about this aspect of the view, in relation to auto-schools, undermines the work so far and licenses of professional leaders and lecturers completely. It is also illogical to develop and strengthen the system of repression, the power of administrative and inspection supervision by the Ministry of the Interior. I don't think we really need a law that provides the possibility of a permanent, watch out for this, permanent closure of auto school as an economic subject and example of micro-entrepreneurship or crafts, on the part of a single police officer, an individual police officer, and without the right to appeal in a second-degree procedure. The provisions of the existing law, which has been in force since 2005, have closed car schools, sequestered licences, long-term experienced employees are forced to additional education in higher schools and colleges, are obliged and to perfecte and have mandatory knowledge checks every 4 years, thus placing them in a higher level of job responsibilities. This law, if an act contract is allowed which does not fall within the scope of labour law or has the form of outsourcing, allows itself to place those same professional staff in an unfavourable position with regard to the car-schooler who for this reason punished or closed legally. Indeed, instead of liberalisation, marginalisation and demeaning of the responsible work they are doing will be carried out. We should be aware of these facts, the consequences. And let us not forget what is most important to me that driving instructors and lecturers work first of all with our children and mostly older minors and younger minors, therefore sensitive groups. We leave the model that works, which works well, gives good quality to which others return who have left it and return, I stress it again. In that spirit, I will be specific with a few clear proposals. So under number 1 training candidates for drivers should be an activity of general social interest because social reasons are prevailing over economic reasons. It means supplementing Article 200, page 1 of the Road Safety Act NN 67/08. 2. The proposal, the professional activities of the car school that possess the work license, which are driving instructors, lecturers and car school leaders, to have regulated working relations exclusively in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act. Amendment to Article 15(1), point (b) Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. 3. Proposal, auto school must have the prescribed business simply in the possession of leases, ownership or leases, to supplement Article 15, paragraph 1, point 2, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. The cost of training means proposal 4, the cost of training of auto-schools freely determines from the basic calculation elements which represent the lowest economic justified protection value of the teaching clock prescribed by the regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the calculation of the economically justified price, the teaching hour in auto-school, which produces the HGK once a year since 30 November of the current year. The relevant article, as well as the relevant law, shall be amended, means Article 15(1), point (a) as a new point. The 5th proposal should allow auto-schools the right to appeal to the competent criminal court, so the infringement order is whether it is to amend Article 20(5). Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Safety Act. Proposal for 6th control of the work of auto school should be in the jurisdiction of the state inspection. Proposed 7th, the measure prohibiting the work of auto school shall be adopted by a judge, not by a police officer, and by the driver of the adoption of measures shall be the body of the state administration or ministry, Article 213. If I were not to burden myself more, these are fundamental changes which, or proposals, should be accepted. I just want to point out that we really need to think very carefully about leaving the model that works, to which they return, and to which it really gives one exceptional good quality, and we can even compare with the most advanced countries in the EU like this. And I'm asking you to think this through and respect all these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52641	A respected representative of Strenja-Linic will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52642	Dear Chairman, legislators and respected colleagues and colleagues who are here at this hour. I would explain the proposal for our amendment to this law, which is to reconsider the safety on our roads and to amend Article 222. paragraph 2 and to read: The driving licence for the management of vehicles AM, A1, A2, AB and B of the category shall be issued with a period of validity of 10 years. During the extension of the driving licence, the driver shall be obliged to undergo a medical examination for the driver if the medical examination obligation is established by a health certificate on the basis of which the driver’s licence is issued, that is realistic. And after 65 years of age, every five years. Why? The last amendments to the 2015 Security Act amended this Article 220, paragraph 2 in such a way as to exclude the provision of mandatory medical examinations for the extension of driving licences for persons over 65 years of age from the same date. But I will present a few data related to the systematic monitoring of road safety on the roads of the MUP analyzes data, issues a public-access security bulletin, which provides basic data and trends in traffic accidents and their consequences over the past 50 years. The most common cause of the car accident was found to be a driver’s error in 94.8%, an unexpected occurrence on the 1.4 road, and a sudden failure of the vehicle is only 0.5%. Every year we check our vehicle's condition and we don't think it's necessary to examine whoever's driving. So it is clear that the human factor is the most significant cause of traffic accidents. Thus, the analysis of traffic accidents caused by drivers by age structures from 2007 to 2016 suggests an increase in the number of accidents in age structure 65 and over and that trend is clear. So it goes from 2014 to 2786, 2015. 3074 and 2016 3127. On the impact of years on the physical and mental abilities of drivers over 65 years of age, there is a really relevant number of surgical and scientific works, which clearly explain changes in the ability to perform a number of jobs of older people. But also about their ability to drive motor vehicles. A major European study in 2013 ... in more than 300 pages, it shows that there is clear evidence that there is an increase in the risk of traffic accidents in an old age and in which some are exclusively related to the elderly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also clear to health laymen that there are numerous physical and mental changes that result in a reduction in the speed of reaction, vision, resourcefulness, coordination. Data from the second-degree medical examination committee for drivers and candidates for drivers suggest that the most complaints about the assessment, on the assessment of the first-degree commission, have drivers who did not have a profession, so amateurs, 86% and the older population, therefore drivers who were assessed unable to drive, who were unsatisfactory, i.e. they are also uncritical of the first-degree complaint in 86% of the cases. So, even the Croatian Medical Chamber and the Professional Society, the Croatian Society of Medicine organised a large set of 30.9.2017 on the topic "Healthy ability to manage motor vehicles and comply with EU requirements and directives". And it's quite clear that what's evident from this, it's completely impossible, so if a person at 18 gets a driver's license, and at that point she hasn't had any major health problems, she can extend every 10 years, but if she didn't have any health problems at the start, she's not required every 10 years, except for the extension to go to some kind of health check. And that's the problem. So, we're going to have people over 65, 70 years who are going to have a succesive extension of the driver's license, but they won't need to go to any examinations. This is not an attack on the older population, this is actually a request to those who need to determine it, to strengthen the safety of our roads, because we missed it in 2015. I note that all EU members are left with the possibility of self-editing the legislative frameworks related to the application of health checks for people aged 65 or 70 years. A bridge of independent lists is investing this amendment and we propose to amend in this section the text of this article of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52643	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's the first to represent the God of Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52644	My colleagues, Strenja Linic, I can only tell you that you are absolutely right about this. And that has nothing to do with what, in front of our club, we're going to propose an amendment, but I can really say as a doctor that you're right. I also know that the chairman is also a prominent doctor who is respected by the academic community. I think he'll know what this is about. On the side, which is such a bill, this is the way that it came into our parliamentary procedure to play democratic procedures, because we have come up with a bill that was not on e-consultation, that is, it has been changed in relation to e-consultation, but on the side of that. Meritum is what you said. I should really ask all MPs who, if they support such a bill, and do not adopt the amendment, will feel responsible, for all that and for all the consequences that will happen after this, if you do not have the opportunity to control a group of people, who, because of their age, become risky, then you are actually bearing the risk of bringing all other groups of people. Now imagine the consequences when it comes to road safety. And then we can't talk about a law called security anymore, because then security is gone. Is it a problem for these groups of people to be released from payments? If there's a problem with paying, free them from paying. The Ministry has the right to adopt another regulation, to set other prices. Well, let the state, when it's giving municipalities additional funds, take over local self-government. Let all these people and that age group get rid of it that way, because you're putting all the citizens into security problems, to get a populist part of the points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52645	Thank you. Reply to the distinguished representative Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52646	Dear fellow Petrov, what you are saying is clear to all doctors, the question is how many doctors in this esteemed House are subject to a party's path or thinking about what is their sacred duty, which is primarily to care about the health of those who are actually invited and why they have decided as their profession, and these are citizens of this country. I think in 2015 with this law, with this article, a serious failure has been made, and now we are left with the possibility of correcting it. In the e-consultation, this article was amended as I propose, but afterwards, it disappeared and virtually did not change at all and remained as it was in the 2015 law. And there's an opportunity to correct this failure, maybe it wasn't a failure, because it was a decision under pressure from certain groups, but I wonder, any pensioner who sits behind the wheel, would he want, he feels good and he's good at health conditions, if he's sure, that he won't be the one who's going to be for this bill, if the other pensioner, who has some initial memory disturbances, less concentration, less orientation in space, less reactions, since he has more factors in terms of pressure, sugar, which will make it impossible for his rapid reaction, due to changes that occur as a result of it, on the nerves and blood vessels, would he guarantee for that other pensioner. He wouldn't run him over, for example. his grandson or someone of his. So we primarily need to think about the safety, not the comfort of the pensioners who don't want to go every 10 years for a review or not wanting to allocate a certain amount. This money can be resolved differently, and these medical examinations need to be carefully tested in a way that works. But I think when it comes to their safety being questioned by this article and those pensioners we're talking about here would be for such a change.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52647	Thank you. The next replica to be presented to the esteemed representative, Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52648	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't have time to repeat the debate I actually had about the directive, but I would warn of the Law on Discussing Discrimination. Every position of any person based on age, or year of life, represents a period of discrimination. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52649	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club,
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52650	.../Intruder Linic: I had an answer./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52651	Oh, excuse me. Here's my colleague, Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52652	Comrade Varda, you were ten minutes ago that you and you were on this review in 2014 and that you got a 10-year extension of the driver's license,... for 10 years. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What can happen, not in 10, not in 5, but in a year? We're aware of that by looking around us even a person much younger. But it is known exactly in which age group there are a number of traffic accidents, where certain diseases occur more often than strokes, heart attacks, and how it goes with age. That's perfectly logical, and we all need to be aware of that if we know what an age means. Someone can be more vital in some way, someone can hold out until the '90s, and someone at 60 is already in no condition. What today's medicine can say is that after 65 years of retirement, a certain range of activities a person can carry out is reduced, and in some ways a man goes into retirement where he should be mobile, he should definitely drive a car, the more he moves and maintains his vitality. But given what today's scientific data shows, it's that in those years it's slowly losing and, therefore, it's reducing vision, it's reducing concentration, there's some atherosclerotic changes in most people, most people. So sometimes it reduces the possibility of orientation in space, sometimes concentration and insight into the environment. You need to know that such persons, you have no idea how much we actually have today a person with a certain cognitive disturbance, mildness that doesn't show up to those who have dementia. I had a patient who came in for a checkup, who came in with his wife, and I looked at him, and then I said you were going to go home and she said he was driving me. He drives her, she drives him for a checkup because he doesn't know how to guess in my office which is the door and which is the door of the closet, he grabs the doorknob from the closet but he'll take her home. I'm not sure, there aren't many patients like that, but why would it be a problem to do a checkup once in five years? I don't think that's the problem, it's not the cost, it's the safety of all of us, for all of our children and everyone who's actually moving in traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52653	A colleague of Vard's has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the injured Rules of Procedure? What's the article?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52654	Article 238, Vice President, dear colleague of Strenja-Linić, in some ways insults, says I have no idea. I have a very good idea because I've seen all the analyses issued by the Department of Public Health on traffic users that cause car accidents and with fatal consequences. And it's not true, it's not true that I have no idea because, in my knowledge, they're not people over 65 years of life. So if we're talking about it, then let's say that every extension of the driver's license goes to a doctor's appointment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52655	Comrade Vard, please, it wasn't, of course, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, let's not abuse that institution. You're actually replicating your colleague. Please, let's not use the wrong way of a certain institute that we have in this House. The next club of MPs is the HDZ Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52656	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act is certainly an interesting law because it concerns the safety of all of us because we are all road users and we are all potentially in danger daily and we are too concerned about what drivers are and how vehicles are and how regulated safety is overall in our daily traffic life. But here is the law, as has been said by my predecessors, it is first about harmonising with the EU's acquis. And surely this law has brought a lot of good things and every law that deals with this problem certainly brings a number of important things to safety, so is this. But here he has also caused interest, or caused reactions to those to whom this law applies, which could potentially be damaged by this law. So here, looking at, discussing this law is certainly good things that good attention is given to certain categories of drivers even though here you should think and that first, little do I think and unwarrantedly here goes to the bottom of the young. Not all young people are silly, not all young people are wild, not all young people are drunk and drugged. We have a beautiful generation of young people. And particularly important, however, we must be aware that it is not the same to take the driving test today in 2017 and take the exam 50 years ago. 50 years ago, 60 cars were a miracle and everyone was surprised and driving a car. There's been stress and some special and nervous and experience, and today young people are born after a year, two, as soon as they see through, they're already on the computer. And when he's on the computer, he's already driving the vehicle. He already drives, controls, and already acquires skills on these video games, such that he can drive a vehicle when he's 10 years old as far as he's concerned. That simulator that I took 40 years ago, that young man today, he's taking that simulator at 10 and he's already successful, he's already getting a routine driving. So I wouldn't agree in general with this statistical follow-up of young drivers. Because let's think about seeing a statistical follow-up of a businessman that other people don't drive. An entrepreneur whose head is in stress and who drives, who knows how to think, talks on his cell phone. We've regulated it well. You can't use your cell phone. Let's analyze these car accidents with politicians. When you look at our Parliament, you look at the debate, and you see what kind of nonsense they're talking about here, so how they are in your traffic. What do you think we're doing here? How would that be? How much would you increase these? Second. Here I understand doctors who are daily with patients, seeing patients' problems, and now as a firefighter, I should say you know what bombs we all drive in. You know what's the danger in every vehicle, that every vehicle has gas, that every vehicle has electricity, that every vehicle can be set on fire. And what is the average age of our vehicles on the road? That's definitely not what we're thinking. And I'm sure if I were to speak as a fireman now, then I should say, you know, every driver should pass a fire test, a fire protection test, because his vehicle's about to start. See how many fire extinguishers there are in the vehicles, no one is thinking about it, or perhaps some are thinking about it. And if the statistics were to work the same here, then they could see how much they suffered in the vehicle fires, how much that driver was willing to do. So they would come into the same category as these medically, or old, young ones. So I get it. Everyone looks from their perspective and surely sees in their perspective and sees in their everyday professional work dangers that others we don't see. So the debate on this law can also be seen in this regard. But here we all got these remarks from the Chamber of Commerce, and we got the comments from the auto school, and I think the lawmaker, or you, the competent ministry that did that, had an understanding of that. It would be bad for this law to close down some auto-schools tomorrow, to keep people out of work, to get into those positions. But we need to be aware that we need to liberalize some things. For example, in America there are no car schools as far as I know, in America when a man is ready to take his time he comes to the competent commission, pays the exam and he goes to take the lay. While young people are what I was talking about today, ready and handy, because from the earliest youth on video games, they drive cars, and they're those simulators I say that we used to pass and they were a miracle to us, and they're simple things. So maybe you should think that this is the subject of a general driving culture, that it should be every high school should have maybe this knowledge of traffic regulations and passing exams, that it should be a practice. I wouldn't want this to leave anyone out of a job, but you shouldn't represent that car school as some kind of academy. We're turning everyone into an academy. My firefighters in Austria, Germany, he comes to work for a fireman and they teach him. But you have to finish high school in Croatia. Are we overwhelmed by some of our activities? Because we make philosophy of everything, we make great science of everything. My fellow firemen in Austria say they don't go to firemen's school at all, but they come to a unit, they have to have a technical school, a technical school. He comes into the unit, and these guys at the task force, they're putting him in training, specific knowledge for that place. Wouldn't it make sense for us to introduce a transport culture in high schools and take a driving test there? Because I think driving exams aren't my people's bauk anymore. So any young, healthy man with those skills he has nowadays can take a test. We, of all things in Croatia, love to create a great philosophy. I do not want to say this way, please, and I appeal to you to accept any amendments that would help people not to lose their jobs, because today is a battle for every job. So if that's what the social services are all about, and we're all paying for someone to work or have, let's just let it be that people don't lose their jobs, and let's just ask that you have understanding and that you accept the amendments in that sense that would help them not come into danger, because we've all got an appeal and a warning from a car school, and none of us sure would want that to happen if people were out of a job. Well, in that sense, now and all the amendments that my predecessors have made, which you must have received in the procedure to make it quality. Okay, well, a series of good solutions, so here's what might be more to say, means that the technical inspection station now has to extend the registration, that you don't have to go to the police station, that you don't wait there. Because these really technical inspection stations are pleasant today. Come, have a cup of coffee there while someone registers your vehicle. Much simpler than going to the police, and there are fewer employees and employees and problems and waiting and certainly need to make sure that citizens do not come into a position that they have to wait and waste time. Mostly here I can commend all these measures that you have introduced that improve and allow people simplicity and this 24-month registration because logically new vehicle it is again a stupid invention. You get a new vehicle from the factory, it gives you a five-year guarantee, and you have to take it to technical school. If you need to pay technically, let's help out there technically, or I don't know what the center is. Or what Mr. Petrov noticed nicely. No pensioner will mind if he goes to a doctor's appointment, because we'll give it to him for free. Let's do this, why don't we get the primary protection doctor there to take a little account and let him go to that doctor and get it into this health insurance office of ours, so let him go through it to the medical work expert and everyone will be happy, every pensioner will be kicked out of here. But I'm saying here these people over the age of blood vessels are narrowing down, heart, problems, and look, there's no Varda, I'm sorry now, now Mr. Varda, our colleague, is making decisions about the state, voting about the laws, so we want to send him to the test every time, because as far as the man said he was, 70 and a few years old. He raises his hand here and decides the fate of the state, and we put something else in danger there. So, we still have to be a little tolerant of these older people of ours, but this is a firm proposal and we put it as an amendment, we can't go through this law, but through some other laws. And every pensioner will be happy to leave every year for a medical examination just so that we can pay him as a state and that's good for our safety. Next, this 9 negative points, I think that's okay, let's keep it tight and let's take care of this and this alcohol, and all those who get caught being drunk a few times, it should be rigorous and, according to those, it should certainly have the strictest measures so that it's certainly good for traffic safety. Here, mostly I think it's a complete bill of law, to improve security with this, and to just respect what's been said, which we've got all the MPs, which you've got from these auto schools. I appeal once again that we don't bring in anyone to lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52657	Thank you very much. Although it is 10 hours behind and there are a number of replicas on your display, let's start in order, he is the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52658	Dear fellow Sanader, you said 50 years ago the car was amazing, at the time... I think it's just what I've collected, taken away, maybe even multiplied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The technique has gone so far forward that it is easy and cheap and convenient to ensure the safety of traffic in the areas of local self-government units in populated areas in a very simple way but should install certain things in this law. Namely, a camera that practically measures the speed of a vehicle that extracts plates, which gives so much data to the vehicle itself and the perpetrator of the offence, costs about 450 thousand kuna. I'm witnessing it because we're just in the process of getting one such camera. However, what the 2008 law provided and was abolished by the 2004 law when it first started to discuss it, made it possible or limited to local self-government units in the sense of traffic in a quieting manner, but I would, in some way, have discussed it on the board, suggested that it try to install something new in this law that would enable local self-government units and in any case ensure the safety of traffic in populated places, to expand to detect violations that are largely at risk of traffic safety, such as irregular speed, passing to red light at a traffic light, taking away the advantages of passing as well as traffic lanes intended for the movement of public transport to which we are all witnesses. I'm saying this for a reason because we've been in the area of our industrial zone, we've had a few deaths, exactly the way the vehicle behaves, and that's what forced us to get a camera like this, but we don't have the legal opportunity to punish the offender, and I think it would be a good idea to install something like that into this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52659	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed President Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52660	Thank you. Well, here's the thing, dear fellow, I would agree with this, which I've been talking about, and I'm sure everything you've said here that you've been doing as mayor and all the innovations are good and help traffic safety. And it's the right way and thinking that we can only improve that security through these series of measures and activities that we can do each and every one of our local self-government units. ... Well, I know, you've had a lot more. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52661	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52662	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Sanader, you have so, through a rather interesting debate on behalf of the club, mentioned young drivers. And then on the subject of young drivers, you said that today really kids have different simulators, they also have some video games and they're extremely good at reading. What the experience says is that you really need to be careful about young drivers and there I can agree and these are young drivers from 18 to 24 so it's a big question of what's behind and what's a young driver, but let me, I've had opportunities somewhere in the Baltic, it was tied to another topic, nature protection, it was a simulator that showed how you drive a big ship for container transport. On these big ships you have 10 to 12 employees, I was there playing with it, and after one 2, 3 attempts, I've been great at driving it, I'm afraid no one would let me drive that boat because, really, we need to be careful with the young drivers and leave these proposals that are in the law, so eventually see about some little improvements, but experience really tells us that they are suffering especially in the late evening hours. What we were talking about in the big cities, I'm talking about the city of Zagreb, it was a real improvement that the introduction of taxi lines that are financially acceptable decreased this significantly and each of them used more taxis than driving but also the bill that they had after midnight, in the first proposal and later still, they couldn't drive cars was good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52663	The answer to the replica of the esteemed Representative Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52664	Dear colleagues, I have absolutely mentioned young people in a positive context like you, but look at these young people, here we have these here at the age of 25, lead the state, pass laws, like Varda, representative of the old, and here young. I mean, we young people can't look at everything in a negative context, they have a lot of power. But surely they're more skilled than I am, more capable than I am, and the fact that there are some wild ones, you have old wild ones. Or the middle-aged ones. Drunk, like young people. I don't think it should go to young people in such a negative context. And now we've done an analysis here of young people, but I'm saying, if we've done a political analysis, you know what this plate would look like here' or a businessman? We took the youth category because the young are normal, strong, full of energy, and now we think the young are a danger. But these young people are too smart today and these are great generations of young people and it is not good for young people to be put in a negative context and put in them especially increased as young people are dangerous. Young people created this country, it wasn't much old. But those young people of 19 years, they've been going and creating a country, young people are carrying all segments of life, and I think it's negative and discriminatory for young people that we put them in such a negative context and let's say here, young people are a danger in driving, I can't agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52665	The next replica is the respected representative Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52666	Thank you. My fellow Sanader, I am really glad that you have even praised the amendment, I hope that it will not remain on mere desires, words unlike Mr Varga, who spoke about discrimination, age discrimination. Today we can talk about a number of types of discrimination, age sex, positive, here is not a question of discrimination, it's a matter of responsibility, and that's why I'm glad you supported it. On the other hand, don't get angry if I tell you that I've seen part of your exposure as a relativization. For the reason that, in my opinion, when compared to that of a person driving a car or any other motor vehicle, this is why, because of being insane, you have to pass a fire test, it's like saying that every person who lives should actually control their breathing. It's not something to control or think about, it's unconscious. So that part of relativization I just couldn't accept. But I suppose you've been saying that to insight and some other things that appear in this bill. And that's why I don't think this is a matter of liberalisation. At one point you mentioned liberalisation, this might be a culture test. No, I think this is a matter of responsibility because we will all be responsible for what we eventually vote in the Croatian Parliament and I really don't want to experience anything on my shoulders and on my cheek, what appears in the meantime and as a consequence may appear, I agree with you, in different age groups, but we know which are risky. And besides, as you have finally underlined, older age groups, even though they are risky, in this way, can have a free and quality review, so where they will have a better service, this should eventually be made possible, and in the end they will all be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52667	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed President Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52668	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Petrov, I just wanted to say, we are all professionally deformed in some profession. As a fireman, I'm professionally deformed because I see fire hazards everywhere. You don't see it. Or other colleagues. That's how doctors see danger because they know what they're dealing with and so on. And if you knew what danger you had when driving a car from a fire, you'd be scared, I don't know, maybe you know but some of us don't know that. And I see these dangers. You ride on a can of gasoline, you ride in a car that has a battery power source where after a certain number of years you suffer isolation on all the guides. So even a little short-circuit in your vehicle is causing a fire. And many aren't prepared for a sudden incident to make his smoke, he'd get lost, he'd die. You know, in that sense, I said in terms of how different they are, that's the first thing culture is what you said, but fire culture is culture. First aid, fire protection, medical care, they're all your problems, but everyone in their work sees the danger of that problem. I see a fire hazard all over the place. I'd like to list you now with us in the Parliament how many problems we have and potential fire hazards. And people don't give it any importance, and in that context, I said that maybe we should do that. So it's not exactly an unconscious shop. The fire is very much-looking and not as unconscious as breathing. But I supported you for what you said because I think it's right because we can't impose some obligations on our citizens because they are capable of... Let's see if they can do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's going to pay for this because the problem is 500 kuna costs a medical examination when you go to a doctor's appointment for a driver and it's for a pensioner a lot of money and then they're struggling through their associations not to, and we as a society have to find the strength to provide it for them because it's free. Here in that sense I supported you and that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52669	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52670	A fellow Sanader, each year, will take the pensioner to a technical examination of a car that he probably had already driven for some years, so he bought it in some earlier years when he might have worked, but every year he will take it for a technical examination and pay a thousand, two kunas for that technical review. Every year. And we suggest that every five years over 70 years when it's objective, scientific and professionally clear that certain abilities are somehow weakened because it's a normal lifespan. Someone can feel better or worse, someone can be more vital, I say, by the time they're 90, but what's the problem every 5 years with a 400 or 500 kuna checkup? But we can also arrange that this part does not go to the burden of it, but let's not make traffic safety conditional on whether it spends 500 kuna every five years every year if in those five years it will give 2 thousand kunas for technical correctness. So we're thinking about the technical regularity of the vehicle, we're thinking about the safety of the roads, about signalling, about everything we're actually spending on that car going and whoever's running it, we're just looking for this one option, let's look at the man who's going to drive that car. We're talking about continuity, if you're 18 years old, and if you haven't had a medical condition by then, it means some epilepsy or something like that, so you have to be 2 years old without an epileptic attack, so you have to have your driver's license extended because epileptics can also drive, so you didn't have health problems at the start, and every 10 years your driver's license is extended to 100. Does a 100-year-old need a doctor's appointment? Yeah. Is the one with the 95 supposed to be? Yeah. The one with the 90? Yeah. How do we know what the limit is? We know based on today's relevant scientific literature, which has clearly shown, over 65 years of age, the largest number of people who will cause a car accident over 65 years old. And that's what today's fact, it says in... I'm sorry your colleague Varda is here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After 2 years of being a member of my board, he still hasn't remembered my name, I'm not Slinic, I'm Strenja Linic, but it's very important, that it's very important that Bilten says, says what the percentage of those over 65 is. It's the largest number of traffic accidents, and that's what it says every year, what our country issues, means the Bilten that shows the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52671	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Sanader's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52672	Madam dear colleague, you don't need to convince me, I accept what you're saying, but I stand for what Petrov says. Yeah, you, you should've suggested that, let's see if those people of ours are over 65 years old, pay for it, and they're going. And not to say you have an obligation you have to in five years. Well, it's good to go to the 30-year-old doctor's appointment, not the 70-year-old. But let's give them, let's pay for it and make sure they can go to that doctor's appointment. And then we did something. But we have no right just to give them new obligations, they... registers a car, every year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we took an average of how old their vehicle really is, these pensioners, then they'd see it's a 15.20-year-old vehicle. That's a special problem. Then we should make sure they don't drive a car over the age of five, those pensioners of ours, so help them. Because when it's a new car, it's still less dangerous. But when it's an old car and an old man it's a bomb on the road. And if we weren't talking about these problems of fire, I'd be introducing everyone right now. The average vehicle's been in our car for 20 years. I'd like to have over 10 years of fire-examination of the vehicle, but the poor people, who's gonna pay for it. So let's do it to help the citizens, we want to live in a good country, the social one where people want to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52673	Thank you very much. I see you're all in a very good mood in these late hours. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52674	We now move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 196. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of HNS Representatives Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Representative Ranko Ostojic. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments submitted. With us here is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior, Honorable Zarko Katic. We are starting with the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, there are 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52675	The amendment of the Legislative Committee is accepted, it is nomotechnical in nature, it does not seriously enter into the text but only nomotechnically edits it, it is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52676	All three of us?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52677	All three of them, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52678	Thank you. Then they become an integral part of the law. We are now moving on to the amendment sent by HNS Representatives' Club Liberal Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52679	Thank you very much. In accordance with the previous consent of the Government of the Amendment Club of HNS Representatives, the Liberal Democrats are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52680	And he becomes an integral part of the law. We now move on to Amendment 1 also to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52681	Thank you. The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is not accepted. Namely, the issue of health checks on drivers is regulated by the applicable Articles 230 to 235. Road safety laws. For example, as referred to in Article 231(4), an emergency medical examination shall be carried out by a driver who was found to have operated a vehicle with a blood alcohol content of more than 1,5 promil. The amendments we are proposing now and which, if adopted, will become an integral part of the law that is extended to persons who are generally found with an illicit share of alcohol in the blood that amounts to more than 0.5 prominences for amateurs or professional drivers, of course any amount. If such a person is found at least 3 times, they will also be referred to an extraordinary review, as well as those found to have managed a vehicle under the influence of drugs or drugs, and then persons who refuse to submit a study on alcohol drugs or drugs. The requirement to refer the driver to an emergency inspection other than the police may, therefore, direct a body that controls traffic on the road, such as inspections. He can be referred to by a state attorney, a court or a legal or physical person with whom the driver is employed. Finally, a doctor who finds that the driver is suffering from a disease or has a disability, who is no longer able to manage the vehicle safely, the doctor who has completed the examination, is also at the end of the medical examination.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52682	Thanks. Time's up. I ask you to respond within 2 minutes Time's up, you can't talk anymore. [[Intruder: So you can guide, with a warning.]] Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52683	Here I am truly sorry that you haven't studied the amendment that we have submitted, you've talked about extraordinary reviews, but colleague Reiner, you can get involved, colleague Steele up there, and all the other colleagues can get involved from your party. You've been talking about extraordinary examinations. We've invested the amendment on regular checks after 65 years that's the first thing. The other thing is, with this, you said you weren't listening to the profession at all, because your waist was always sending instructions and praying. And besides, you've been playing tricks. You eventually left an article of the law, as well as a law that is in force today, Article 222 at the time when it was in your e-consultation, on the proposal of the profession you put it, in order for you to put, for absolutely no reason whatsoever, or any indication on the government, an unchanged article. In other words, you have deceived the profession that you will change it on their request, on their proposal, to simply remove it from them without any readings, and today you have made it possible for this article to not be amended at all because it has not been changed. You've crossed the line. The same tricks you're using for the Agreocor Investigation Commission, I mean in the same way, the same pattern you're doing. But I'll only ask you one thing. If that's what the profession deserves, could it even be called the Road Safety Act, that's all. And I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52684	Let's take a good approach then to the vote on the amendment, which the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Well, then let's move on to the amendment of the esteemed colleague, Ranka Ostojic. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52685	The amendment of the respected representative, Ostojic, is not accepted. We believe that the previous consent of the ministry is in charge of internal affairs that units of local self-government should take place before making a decision on the regulation of traffic in their areas. It is the institute that has existed for a long time in the Croatian legal order and its application has never produced negative consequences before, whether by police work or by the work and functioning of local self-government units. Given the fact that professional services, police have qualified staff and police officers in the field of regulation and traffic regulation, we believe that their disposal from this process would be harmful and could lead to worse regulation of traffic in our cities and municipalities. So the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52686	Comrade Ostojić, reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52687	Dear Secretary of State, you're wrong. This Regulation shall enter The constitution states that this particular thing, in the hands of local self-government units, has so far been a practice that the police have given consent, that what the local self-government unit determines. I have set an example for you in the Split Dalmatian County. Four police officers will now have to give anything but a solution for every traffic sign. And when they give a solution, there's no appeal. There is no appeal and this is no longer being resolved by an irregular procedure. You touch what is regulated by the Constitution, that it should be done by the local self-government unit, you take the burden on the police, that is, on those who are currently doing inspection surveillance of the car schools, the technical inspection stations, everything else. So they should actually be given away for it, because it's really going to be those heroes. Four of them are also involved in inspection and, at the same time, people will have to solve such a problem. I think it's completely wrong and that at the same time you can't be an inspection and at the same time make a solution. Kadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you, so I don't understand why you rejected it and imposed a new obligation without new employment on people who simply won't be able to do it and don't do it for the benefit of the citizens. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52688	So let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I also find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, and then we move to a vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. Please, let's vote. I find the proposal won 77 votes for, 6 abstentions and 39 against. So, most of the votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act was passed, together with amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52689	And I'd draw everyone's attention if we still had three points to do today. Therefore, it follows us: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law, emergency procedure, first and second question, P.Z. No. 197 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the proposing representatives like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Justice, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52690	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Law, and what I want to say about the argument, the bankruptcy law has been in force for 2 years now, 2 years in application, and now we have come to a reference period when we can little and analyze and come to some knowledge where we will present proposals that we believe would need to be changed in this law. The amendment of this law is, in fact, mainly about pre-fashion proceedings. The bankruptcy procedure is the procedure when we have already a creditor, who is unable to pay or is over-indebted. And the bankruptcy process is then primarily the goal of charging the creditors on the stake very often also ends with liquidation. Unlike bankruptcy, a pre-departure procedure, it is a procedure in which the debtor himself, when he considers that he will be in difficulty, when these difficulties are likely, can submit a proposal to the competent court to open up a pre-departure procedure in which he might actually be in a position to get out of such a difficult situation and to preserve that legal entity and that, after a certain period and certain measures that are taken, he may actually come out of such a difficult situation. And given the aspect of the need for society, it is much more interesting for us and important for us to have these pre-warrant proceedings functionally and through these procedures as many economic operators as possible, it means that there is no situation for them to go into bankruptcy. And so, here, when we've been doing these two years, after two years of analysis and looking at these figures, we see that a little bit of pre-departure is open, that few of these procedures are ongoing, and therefore we wanted these changes, and they aim to encourage economic operators that have some difficulties, to apply such a measure, and to open up pre-warrant procedures in which they could, under certain circumstances, come out of this difficult situation, step on their feet and not end up in bankruptcy tomorrow. Which, of course, means preserving jobs, which means, of course, a more stable economy. Here, therefore, we want to encourage economic operators by this law in a way that facilitates this pre-departure process itself, and one of the more important measures is to facilitate the process of submitting proposals for opening the procedure, reducing the number of documents needed or simplifying those documents that the debtor is obliged to submit in a proposal for opening the pre-departure procedure. Also, deadlines that are relatively short, we are significantly extending these amendments to the law, so we will extend the deadline within which the creditors are obliged to report the claims we extend the deadline within which the Commissioner and the debtor are obliged to manifest themselves about the declared claims. We also extend the term for which the believers can, so that they challenge the demands of other believers. We are also extending the deadline within which the debtor must draw up the final restructuring plan. And what is important is that we extend the deadline of the pre-trial procedure, which is 120 days under the current law, with the possibility of adding more than 90 days. Now that would be 300 days, with the possibility of an extension for another 60 days. So we also reduce the number of reasons why the procedure is suspended. And when all these measures are summed up, we see that the pre-banking process is significantly simplified, relaxed, the deadlines are extended. And yet I return to the goal is to preserve as many economic operators as possible and in this way to prevent them from coming into a position at all that they have to open up bankruptcy, because bankruptcy has different goals and very often ends differently. One of the important measures on this is that we allow a debtor to take on certain financial responsibilities for himself in the pre-determined procedure. So, to raise a certain loan based on which he could do business. And in the very process of predicating the statue on its feet, get out of that predicate without meaning of these consequences that can lead to bankruptcy. It is clear that a qualified majority is also needed, and thus the creditors themselves, within the Committee of Prophets, when they decide to be aware that they are also entering a certain risk, because such claims, which then arise, have an advantage over possible open bankruptcy in relation to other claims, except for those claims of the first payment order. So here I have briefly presented the most important reasons why we came up with amendments to this bankruptcy law. We propose that this be an emergency procedure, precisely because we can intervene with such measures in the existing pre-banking procedures specifically related to the possibility of financial commitment. Here's what we're proposing is that after the debate, changes to the bankruptcy law are accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52691	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas on your exhibit. Here's all the representatives of the Most came forward, so let's take it in a row. First respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52692	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Bošnjaković, you yourself have said one of the major changes, i.e. the addition of the bankruptcy law is currently in the section where the article is added, in fact taking on a new debt in money for temporary financing. It means during the pre-fashion procedure that temporary financing can be provided precisely to ensure the continuity of business in that negotiating area before the settlement is reached. If we compare the Interim Administration Act applicable in Lex Agrokor, it means where the provisions are very similar, then we could conclude that they, in fact, lenders, financiers, creditors of the new ones that come into existence, who secure the funds have the right to championship and charge if there is a bankruptcy procedure. What is really a key question that I would ask here, given that Lex Agrocorom, his application, saw that it had turned into a roll-up, a model where they interpreted that same article, actually the same application that could be on the means that even from the old duties that were before that they could get a kuna or some such relationship that was. So I'd like to ask a question here about what directly actually happened. Will new funding also be interpreted as roll-up or is it not roll-up? So we know the answer to whether in all future bankruptcy procedures this kind of funding can become roll-up, because it's very important that our creditors who will give new funds know whether they're pulling both old funds or whether this was in Lex Agrokor one exception to interpretation without perhaps remaining an open question in the future. I think it's okay now to answer whether this is roll up or not roll up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52693	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52694	Minister Bosnjakovic to me, I'm really surprised. I don't see that it's such a big problem to answer a simple question. So here I am really asking you to answer my colleague Panenic's insurance for temporary funding in this bill roll up model or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52695	Thank you very much. The next one is counterpart Ninčević-Lesandric withdraws. Dear Representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52696	Well, here I expect actually Mr. Bosnjakovic to answer this question specifically. So, will all future creditors be allowed to roll up, because you mean this term means temporary financing insurance and you actually transfer that term from what Lex Agrokor already had in his statement. So, all future believers are curious whether this will be applied to them too, so answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52697	Thank you. We still have one replica. It is a respected representative of Domagoj Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52698	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. I would agree with you. Two years have passed since the application of this bankruptcy law. The data are accurate, 273 pre-banking procedures of which 589 procedures are accepted by the restructuring plan. It is also simple to conclude that the provisions so far have been insufficiently encouraging to initiate these procedures. I welcome the efforts to also encourage debtors in these early stages to avoid the inability to comply with their obligations and enable them to continue their business. What I would particularly point out is this possibility and a proposal for the possibility for the debtor to come up with new financial resources which, in the vast majority of cases, are necessary precisely for continuing business and avoiding liquidation. I believe that together we will all support these newspapers that have one clear goal, and that is exactly the second opportunity for the debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52699	Thank you. He will answer the questions asked, respected Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52700	Actually, the question was, were the distinguished MPs all three were asking if it was roll-up? I'll be very explicit here. It's not roll up. In fact, Article 62a. It says very clearly. If a insolvency procedure is opened against the debtor, the creditor's interest shall be settled until the amount of the new debt before the other creditors except those of the first higher payment order. So that's what I said in the introduction. This will be a claim that takes precedence over all others, but only in the amount given and only if the decision has been made, therefore qualified by the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52701	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first to appear on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52702	Dear Minister, I must again, it's always kind of that feeling when we arrive at this late hour, we're actually discussing important laws. I think it's important for you in the ministry because of all the circumstances we are in, we consider it important for all of Croatia and really in law we have the intensities that, to say, are related to the practice that I think needs to be improved. And that's why we need to discuss it, and here we are going to say a dozen things that we should discuss. But I'd like to mention here first very practically, given that we have a late date and we're not going to discuss it now, but that some of the practical things that are happening to us are happening to us. In preparation when I'm a little bit around this law itself, I went to look at companies that were kind of like that to say media-exposed where some of the procedures were being conducted, so let me see actually some money-cutting thing that happened. You know what I found? I found a whole series of newly established simple d.o.o., j.d.o. or even d.o.o. which they had through one or two years of huge payment. They did fictitious services, we can, so I can't prove it, but it's visible that you have such companies doing someone's rent or something in that domain. They have within one or two years of huge incomes and then nothing. They just disappear. What's going on? Then you see there's a bankruptcy procedure over them, and it's a shortened bankruptcy procedure, and they're being liquidated. Actually, what's going on? Is that what the trade court calls a bankruptcy manager, but he never sees their papers because it's a shortened procedure and they're even gone. So the disappearance of companies that I'm going to say manipulated actually by their own existence. I'd just ask the question okay. We know that it was twenty-seven thousand companies that hadn't made their payments in a long time, so there were priorities that, there were those who were longer than a while, because there was a huge job. But it's frantic when we find that there are companies involved, reasonable doubt exists that they are involved in certain criminal acts, that they then very elegantly execute the establishment of a company, deliver some fictitious service, charge and disappear by law. They're opening up another company like that, so they're opening a third, a fourth. Who has access and can look into... I can also give you the information that so you can look at a little bit of how individual owners actually go from one to the other to the company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you see what their connection is? The link is always some entity that deals with jobs that are actually related to the budgets of the Republic of Croatia or some more generous contribution. So they're being assigned a job. They rent machines, services, whatever it is. They charge dearly, they get the money out of those companies, and then they disappear. And then you get a call that you see the company at my place. I followed in my county because what you say is taken by a man and eventually became a forensic what. Well, now that I'm talking about Agrokor, actually, we're all slowly dealing with it, and then you could do a string like that and say there's a reasonable doubt here. And so I would say you should and you see from your domain that these events are not random, that they are intended, they are organized and belong to a safe organised crime that uses the bankruptcy law as such to quickly wash away all responsibility. And then it's really hard to prove exactly what was going on, what were the papers. The bankruptcy actually the manager he didn't see it, he was appointed. He's never touched. It's all done in a shortened bankruptcy procedure, so I would just point out something that positive is actually a legal provision that, of course, our groups use in quality. The second thing I'd like to warn you about is your desire to extend certain deadlines. But what is it? Is it in our interest that the deadlines extend or that these deadlines be as short as possible, that we be as effective as possible, that these bankruptcy proceedings don't become eternal. I've recently been talking about a procedure in Djakov where alcohol has been on the lager for three years. So the bankruptcy claimer didn't market alcohol. So I consider alcohol a product that is relatively fast-solved. It's not some real estate that's difficult to sell, it's simply a marketable commodity that's being sold. Because of this little bit of intensity, I hope you have good reasons, a good explanation, what is going on and what is going to protect the believer or any other party in the process, if in the end we are not going to have a reduction in the process, if we are not going to be quick, efficient and constantly encourage me, in fact that developed economies have very fast bankruptcy procedures, where if a bankruptcy manager finds that there is no basis for continuing production or some other activity going on quick liquidation, cashing in, because whatever is a commodity or anything, while there is still a certain value and that a new cycle is being launched. This is how we have a bankruptcy that lasts for years, endlessly, irrevocably. Now you have a whole series of problematic situations, I don't know, with dairy farms, we've been complaining about operational programs that failed, prices are low, people are stabbing and standing forever. They're real estate, they don't function, they don't know how to take over, and neither does HBOR himself, they don't know what to do with it. But here's to going back to this question, because I've asked him directly, what you've stated, actually I can read from lex Agrokor, meaning their article 93 means if it's a settlement of the demand from the administration, which will take precedence over the settlement over other investigations of creditors other than search, workers and former workers, it means the proper application of the provision of bankruptcy law related. So everything you mentioned, it's not lex Agrokor, it's not roll up I read in lex Agrokor, it's the same thing. And then one interpretation was that roll up was according to the law, according to lex Agrokor acceptable, I'm asking you about the change, the new law now which is... You say it isn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So something doesn't work, some interpretation isn't right. And I mean, we've been going to that question on purpose, just to ask, let's figure out who's interpreting the law. Who's the one who's going to explain, because I didn't hear an interpretation from your ministry. We heard from Deputy Prime Minister Dalic, we heard from Mr Ramljak, that roll up as such is acceptable, but I can't read it here. It doesn't say that such a model is acceptable. So you can collect an old claim for giving it new funding. It just says here, if you've given new funds, you have the right priority, of course, you're not in the top priority line right now, but you're very high. And basically this is, this conversation is late in the evening, but I hope it stays recorded, that in future time, there will be no interpretation of any bankruptcy manager or some minister or minister of the economy, which will say, yes, but when you adopt this amendment, you have made it possible to re-roll the bankruptcy law. I wouldn't want to be the one to say that with my voice I made it possible again, and I asked and got the answer that it wasn't. How we're actually going to be more specific about how you're going to act, how you're going to give an interpretation as a ministry, that no one in this country can appear, who's going to say, that out of your intentions, the good intentions of this law, a new possibility arises, that someone through the roll-up model buys out old claims. That then he comes as a believer, as some venture capital fund, enters this whole process, discountally buys it, earns it, collects it through the insurance of new funding, because it's charged everything, and then we say it's all fair to all the other believers. The key issue and our support in fact in this law depends on how much you will convince us that such a situation will never happen again, and if you think it should be repeated, then we ask you to install it as an article, in fact within this interpretation, to make it clear that this is a possible scenario to be expected in any new bankruptcy process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52703	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the God of Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52704	Perhaps my question would be most appropriate to refer to Minister Bošnjakovic, but since I cannot direct him, and my colleague Panenić has presented the same things and touched the same thing, I will ask my colleague Panenić, how is it possible that in the Law on Systemically Important Companies and this bill now stands the same thing, Minister Bosnjakovic says that it is not a roll up model, on the other hand, the Deputy Prime Minister and all those involved in this problem, after the vote, Lex Agrokor, say that the roll up under this law is possible. It's just not clear to me, it's actually almost the same articles, and this is almost the same, and that actually just means that you've explained in more detail in this law the spirit of the law of truth. So now really this, I have to underline it again and ask you. I'm not going to talk the way that he's telling the truth. All I'm interested in is an exact explanation? Is roll up a model or isn't roll up a model? If this isn't a roll-up model, then neither is that in that Law on Systemically Important Companies, it's not a roll-up model. If it's not a roll up model, then you'll have to explain to the Croatian public how you're in charge of all those funds you're talking about. I begged you to be very specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52705	Here will be the precise answer of the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52706	Dear and esteemed counterpart Petrov, the minister himself has read the specifics, so the article is a new one that has been introduced into this law. I read it as the minister interpreted it, meaning that simply an old claim cannot be refinanced to say put into some priority at payoffs or even in temporary financing. So until the creditors reach a settlement, there can be new funding, but not in a way that will speculatively buy out old claims and charge at 1:1. So I buy on 20 kunas, 10 kunas of debt, I invest another 100 kunas in new funding, and I get not 120 as much as I've invested but 200. Now that's actually when you get such a venture capital fund they go to charge maximum. So they don't come to Croatia to take 5, 7, 9%. They're coming to take 30%, maybe 40%. We now need to be wise enough not to actually allow. And this law as the change goes, I'm reading it so we won't let it. But I can't help but wonder that someone is reading from Lex Agrokor and saying the same thing can happen. Because when we voted this law, I raised my hand to him. We all supported it, but it didn't say it. And that interpretation someone created artificially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52707	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52708	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Panenić, I agree with you in fact that it is in this article 62a. The changes and additions of the bankruptcy law are visible model roll hopes in the same way as in that law to systemically important companies, i.e. Lex Agrokor. Well, I'd actually call the minister this way to take advantage of these five minutes he's entitled to on behalf of the proposer, so that right here on Article 62a. The law on bankruptcy law and the article in Lex Agrokor which I will personally bring to him, so that he can explain to us what the differences between those two articles are that is not the case, since here we are not clear. Or this is very simply another one of those situations as laws are passed in Croatia ambiguously, so we will use it in accordance with the situation in which we meet and how we need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52709	My colleagues Ninčević-Lesandric you referred this question to colleagues Panenic obviously, so here he will answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52710	Here's colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, now imagine that we have a situation that anyone can interpret and such a positive law in a way that it can be roll up. So we would be, say, an oasis where such speculative funds would enjoy. We'd be in heaven. You simply know that in every bankruptcy procedure you can agree to go buy the claims quickly, raise that couple and then say it but that's what we get the interpretation. If someone in Lex Agrokor interpreted it that way, and it's also transmitted in this, really come to some arbitration they'll go and say hello to that, but it's the same state in one law and it's written in the same way, and in the other law it's not. I mean who's going to explain it to someone... The fund is basically that what he could use in Lex Agrokor so he couldn't take advantage of the bankruptcy law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, they're really going to sue us, and they're going to rightly sue us to make it possible for us to, in fact, make it impossible to follow the same rules. I think that's why we're asking this question, and we're looking for an answer, and it's actually a shame that Minister Dalic isn't here, so maybe she can explain how it was possible to interpret it in Lex Agrokor. And here we have Minister Bosnjakovic who says it's not that and I trust him and that's for sure, that's what it says. And your statement is precisely in the spirit of what we've interpreted, and everything else remains actually something that is imposed and something that creates fear and fear of what will happen in future times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52711	Thank you very much. The next one should speak on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac. He's not here. He's losing his right to speak. And now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52712	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable Minister Bošnjakovic and his associate. So we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law. This law provides, i.e. it proposes to encourage debtors to launch pre-banking procedures and to facilitate the implementation of pre-fashion procedures through the regulation of real deadlines. On 12 March 2014, the European Commission adopted recommendations on a new approach to bankruptcy, the insolvency of entrepreneurs can be accessed in another way, i.e. to enable entrepreneurs to restructure their operations at an early stage and to enable them to continue their business. Therefore, as the minister has said, this bankruptcy law is a pre-determined and regulated pre-departure procedure as a special procedure which is not mandatory, but aims to regulate the legal position of the debtors and its relations with the creditors in order to maintain its activity, and the possibility of carrying out the bankruptcy plan is also further elaborated. A pre-departure procedure may be carried out before bankruptcy is brought on and only if the debtor is in agreement with this as opposed to the bankruptcy plan when it is implemented after the bankruptcy reasons have taken place and if the creditors are in agreement with it. In the pre-demand procedure, the debtor continues to run his business of society while the bankruptcy plan is run by the bankruptcy manager. So, here it is obvious that the whole process is being accelerated and what the minister has pointed out, so the goal is to facilitate and encourage the debtors to initiate the proceedings, facilitate the submission, shorten certain deadlines or extend the deadlines where the creditors are obliged to report the claims in order to speed up the whole process. It is also intended to reduce the number of reasons why the process is suspended and to extend the deadline within which the Commissioner and the debtor are obliged to manifest themselves on declared claims and to extend the deadline within which creditors can challenge the claims of other creditors. It shall also extend the deadline within which the debtor must draw up a final restructuring plan. Therefore, these amendments, as already mentioned, approve and encourage the granting and taking over of new duties so that the procedure can continue or to avoid bankruptcy with liquidation. This is good if these bankruptcys will actually be carried out as quickly as possible, since we are aware that some bankruptcy proceedings take up to 10 and 15 years. What was interesting to me in the law itself, and this would be asked by the Minister to explain to me, here in Article 138 or Article 25 of the amendments, which amends Article 138 of the Law, that the requirements of the first and higher payment order of entry, except for the demand of workers and former debtors, were the result of the opening of the bankruptcy procedure from the working relationship, entry and demand of the budget of the institutions or funds, this is new, in line with the specific regulations in the amount of the total cost of the salary or remuneration, and the compensation to the amount of the prescribed law or collective contract and demand, on the basis of the compensation suffered from injuries at work or professional illness, this was in the preceding Article 138, but were not these claims of institutions, budgets and funds. I didn't get that. Well, here's what I'd like to ask you to explain. Otherwise, I say, if the whole process will speed up that procedures could actually take place as soon as possible and as best as possible, in any case, the HDZ Club will support this proposal to amend the Banking Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52713	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate, the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, he's gone, he's losing his right. Then, for an individual debate, Honorable representative Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. Now, on behalf of Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, he will answer the questions asked in the debate and comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a thank you to all of you who've been discussing and asking questions, there weren't many of them, but this came out as a key question whether there's a roll-up or no roll-up. I made it very clear because it is a clear provision of this law. So those of the believers who are crediting in the pre-determined procedure, they will have the advantage but only at the height of what they have credited with. Therefore, no old claim or new if bankruptcy occurs, only in relation to what they have credited in the pre-demand proceedings. And I think it's very clear in the law and I have nothing more to add or take away and I think we understand that. As far as these issues are concerned about shortening or prolonging procedures, why don't we cut short, but we'll extend. This is about pre-fashion proceedings. So I have a completely different purpose than the bankruptcy process. The objective of the pre-trial procedure is to bring the economic operator on his feet, so that he can continue his business and get out of the problems in which we also relax the procedure and extend his deadlines. The bankruptcy law that is in force, which is the new law, is as far as bankruptcy itself is concerned, it has cut deadlines. Today we have short deadlines for bankruptcy proceedings entirely compared to what was before. That's not what we're touching. We just want to encourage economic operators, use this possibility that the law allows you to get out of the problems in which you are. As for these abuses you've been talking about, I can tell you, there are very likely such things in practice, but these are things for some other bodies, which believers who are damaged, will probably report to the MUP, and the State Attorney's Office that have a certain legal framework and in the Penal Code that provides for the criminal act of abuse of bankruptcy if it comes to being able to react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52715	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52716	Mr. Minister, I've been a little intrigued by this verbal fire that you've been exposed to by your colleagues from MOST, is this roll up, isn't roll up and their replicas, so I've been informed a little bit, by a colleague at the Club who's a little bit more addressed to this law, who told me, something that's integrated me, which is that on the Justice Committee, your co-workers who represent themselves, this law called it a roll up. If I'm mistranslated you don't have to answer me, if it's not mistranslated then talk to them a little bit so they don't create delusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52717	The answer will be by the honourable justice minister, Bosnjakvic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52718	They didn't misinformed you, and it's not like that on the Justice Committee, I don't know, I don't think I can be more clear because I've actually read this provision the way it says, and I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52719	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52720	Thank you Minister for the clarification you've given, here I can agree and hope that those words and what we've all heard here will remain that we won't get into a situation to break the hard words again. I would just be replicating to that last part of yours, that creditors should run procedures with these companies, in fact the only damaged side that is actually some state-owned body or some of the obligations that come from these companies is very small amounts but that never settles. What's coming? So these are companies that turn a few hundred thousand kunas, which they raise, pay the orderly obligations they have as such cash, so there's no criminal part there, no tax evasion, and then there's the company that's going to be taking over. And it doesn't carry out some of its obligations, I don't pay, I don't know, HGK's membership fees or so, and it collects some amount and then goes 120 days and so on. And they, by law enforcement, actually go bankrupt. But after that actually disappears the subject who actually disappears the documentation, actually goes away with it, closes, moves aside the documentation that would actually be compromising. Because they're in a direct relationship with the one that was actually the one that the initiative started about... So here, practically apart from the state in some small amount, there are no damages, there will be no proceedings, but I assure you, that's actually how we legitimize such companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A fine mechanism should be found there so that the accelerated procedure cannot be misused in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52721	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52722	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 197, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, please vote. I find that most of the 103 votes for, 13 abstentions and 3 against the passed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52723	We move to the next point, which is: - Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2014 and 2015. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not pursuant to Article 38 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The island law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Fund. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State, Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union Fund, Ms Nikola Klaic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Law on Islands The Government of the Republic of Croatia submits a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2014 and 2015. The 2014 and 2015 reports were united and submitted jointly, as the 2014 report was stopped in the middle, first regular and then early parliamentary sources, after which the whole procedure had to be renewed for procedural reasons. This report shows the way in which the Island Act is implemented, and the investment in the islands and engagement of public sector bodies in the development of the island and Peljesac peninsula in 2014 and 2015. In the first part, the report handles the effects of the implementation of the Island Act, according to certain institutions, of 60 of them, and in the second part in individual areas such as transport, transport and municipal infrastructure, environmental protection, energy efficiency, economy, tourism, culture, education, health care, social care, and a number of long categories, i.e. areas. Public sector bodies made investments in islands, from budgets, own resources, grants from EU funds, and from loans, or credit lines, in particular... And HBOR. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2014, a total of €1.79 billion was invested, of which €391.57 million was invested from the loan, and €1.4 billion was invested in own and budget assets and from EU funds. In 2015, the public sector in the development of the island invested €1.48 billion of which is €23.49 million from the loan and € 1.25 billion from its own, budget and grants from EU funds. In total, 3,27 billion kuna were invested in the islands in 2014 and 2015. The report shows that public sector investment was primarily focused on improving the transport connection between the island and the mainland, and on the construction of transport infrastructure on islands. For this purpose in these two reporting years, more than 1.5 billion kuna was invested, nearly half of the total funds invested. The amount of investment by the public sector in improving the transport link between the island and the mainland is €665.6 million in 2014 and €345.2 million in 2015. That amount in 2014 is significantly higher than in 2015 because it includes the investment of Jadrolinija 4 new ferry with a total value of 32 million euros, which runs between the Croatian islands and the coast. In the construction and construction of transport infrastructure on islands in these two reporting years, a total of 507.1 million kuna was allocated for the development of municipal infrastructure, 313.7 million kuna were allocated in the development of the economy in 2014 and 15.5 million kuna were invested. It is important to note here that the most funds in both years were invested by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 804,4 million kunas, most of which were allocated to the area of natural transport connection, i.e. to encourage regular maritime passenger and high-speed lines in public coastal maritime transport. ... A total of 611.3 million kuna was allocated by the Coastal Line Maritime Transport Agency as a regulatory body to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in 2014 and 2015. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second major item of investment by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in the Islands is co-financing of the bridge to Krk for which 61.9 million kuna was paid in 2014 including the payment of back claims to the concessionary of Autocesta Rijeka – Zagreb d.d. the future funds have not been paid from the beginning of 2012 to the end of 2014. In 2015, 22.4 million kunas were paid for the bridge for Krk, allowing natural and legal persons who have their place of residence on a bridged island, i.e. on an island connected with the bridge and ferry, and when crossing the bridge, they do not pay for the bridge by means of their own vehicle of all categories. This refers in fact to the islands of Krk, Cres, Mali Losinj and islands in their composition. In 2014, a system of electronic island IDs for preferential transport of islanders and their vehicles was introduced. 17.3 million kuna has been allocated for the measure of subsidising the price of water on islands. This measure refers specifically to the equating of the price of water to island households supplied by water, by a water carrier ship or by a road vehicle with a price of water charged on land in a coastal island county. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Water Subsidisation shall also carry out a measure of compensation for part of the unrealized income to carriers for carrying out free island public road transport using certain categories of island population, i.e. pupils, students, pensioners and persons over 65 years of age as disabled persons residing on islands. For this measure, 69.8 million kuna was allocated during this two-year period. The measure aimed at affecting the development of the island economy has, among other things, given the support of small value to island employers to preserve jobs for which nearly 16 million kuna has been allocated during the reporting period. Finally, I would like to emphasise that improving living and operating conditions on islands through strengthening the transport link between the economy, agriculture, fisheries and through building infrastructure is one of the strategic objectives of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds recently established the Department of Islands, which shows the importance of this government attaching to the islands and their development. The creation of a new Law on Islands and Sublaws is under way. One of the priorities of the Department of Islands is the creation of a mini operational programme for islands that would allow them to use more significantly European funds for projects implemented on Croatian islands in a new financial perspective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52725	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52726	Thank you, Your Honor, for the Secretary of State. About two and a half hours ago, we discussed the Law on the financing of a local self-government unit that predicts that 16% of income tax is abolished by municipalities and cities on the islands as it coincides with this government's policy and the establishment of an island administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52727	The next club of representatives, we move to clubs is that of HDZ respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52728	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, State Secretary, Assistant. The report on the implementation of the Law on Islands for 2014 and 2015 is a good basis for us to discuss the islands a little bit, and if perhaps the best term is not like this in the late hour, given that it is two years, we have practically not discussed any policy towards the islands for three years. And these reports are always good reports that I always think are more or less unanimous and supported in the Assembly because one good overview of everything that's happened by all the ministries, all the state organisations, bodies and funds and agencies, means according to the islands, according to the island population. When we look at these two reports, it is evident that a trend continues that this country's policy towards islands is already higher there somewhere since 2002, the third year has one meaning, there are programs that are permanent, which in some ways allow the island's population to live even cheaper, but also more quality with many other project aids, that these islands are simply developing in the right direction. And we can't say that the state here was stingy or that she didn't do what she said or promised. So we have a relationship that goes over a billion kuna in 2002, third year when we talk about what we saw in these tables. There are subsidies, support, capital investments. Simple and supportive. So simply with HBOR credit funds at very favourable interest that are never better, i.e. somewhere around 2% when we're talking about island enterprises or island firms. It's something that guarantees, meaning that the island's 50 local self-government has a special status that gives them the island law itself. This was the case in 2014. Here we heard 1.7 billion kuna. 2015 1.5 billion kuna. The amount that is respectable, although when we see this report on over 600 pages, which may not be necessary, I think that the Croatian Assembly may not need us to know just about every kuna invested by the County Road Administration, some county in a small particle or so on. From the report to the report I think that maybe we should turn more to get through these reports a review not only of the financial work that is so widely explained, with a lot of contributions than to see a concrete impact in every area of life on the islands, from health care, social care, education, investment in infrastructure, water supply development, draining, etc., to see what is happening on our islands, how it goes on the bridged islands, how it works on large and developed islands, how it works on small, less populated islands, and what our policy means overall towards the island space. When we extract from these 3.2 billion loans in 2 years from HBOR 670 million kuna subsidies mostly the largest part in the maritime part plus aid somewhere 50 million kuna, we are talking about pure 1.8 to 1.9 billion kuna investment in capital projects, mainly in the infrastructure of social and municipal purposes. Which is good, I already told you, I knew that for 10 and more years, since 2003, we have programmes. The road transport programme in which all on islands, students, students, pensioners have free transport by islands and to the first station on land, so we have assistance in the part of the water supply, municipal enterprises, so that all islanders who are not connected to the water supply system, which are supplied by water carriers or road vehicles mainly, fire or some other private vehicles that can deliver it, pay the same price of water as if they are connected to the water supply system and there are no small amounts, ten million kuna per year is spent on it. We have a very successful project of Croatian island product that has been helping for years, one segment of small, let's call it so, craftsmanship or small OPG on islands that have started to produce more and more products and lines of original real island raw materials i.e. island products that guarantee their quality and are slightly created, we can say it by a cluster of island products that increasingly gathers people and every year a large number of people get that label, one program that is not financially demanding but has enabled the gathering and a large number of employees who are now very well organized but could obviously and better in view of some of the intentions that have not been realised in terms of island shops, markets in large cities, and in frequency areas. During 2014, an island card was introduced as a continuation of the island vignette around which there was a lack of story, but after a few years of experience, we can say that it made a certain step in the sense that regardless of a little more waiting until the map was issued, it still allows for more to be done. to keep a quality record of the island passengers, given that they are driving on a preferential tariff. The new 4 Adriatic ferry, which is the continuation of the programme we had in the period 2004-2011, is certainly something to welcome. This year there will be a ferry of Rape sailing, a new one built in the Kraljevica shipyard, we have new catamarans on fast boat lines, and it makes me happy because it is still a quality for the islanders. It should continue to build ports and conditions so that these ports can accept such larger and better ships. The island roads are also restored by Croatian roads, support of small value commendable, also, program that lasts already, I think for ten years where you have the right as an island entrepreneur to get one or half gross paid wages over the year which many entrepreneurs take advantage of. It's about 20 million kunas a year available. Now we come to what we do next. So we had four years without an island administration, it was one wrong move I think, but well, she's back and I think now we have final management where every mayor and mayor can come and ask to get rid of certain questions. We have good communication with the administration, and we have a man in charge of it with experience, i.e. Ma'am, and I'm glad she's here, she's been in that administration for a long time, from the very beginning, since '95. year, and certainly a person who can do much for the development of Croatian islands along with the secretary of state, along with the minister, where the conditions for us to do so have appeared European funds, it is time to think about how, through the new amendments to the Island Act, all of this can be combined into one meaningful policy for a future time for ten years. The Law on Islands and public debate will come very soon. I think on Friday she gave these tags to the island council on Saturday to say something about it. I think he has good intentions, and the public debate and we in the Parliament will finally say what this law should offer in the next period. As for the financing of local self-government units, i.e. I think it's a very clear law that we've read to the end. Once again, I don't know what time I'm repeating today, nobody on the islands is going to lose anything, there's a 102 million kuna compensation fund, for those who are going to go, let's say, through a reckoning, just a reckoning, in some way a virtual minus, the state will make up for it from state budget funds like this year, all the local self-government has compensated everything that lost the last changes in 2016 when we talk about the amended Income Tax Act. So these changes should be welcomed. The island local self-government, 50 of them, will not lose money, however, 20 of them will gain more than they have ever had before, and for these 30 is secured 22 million in this compensation and it will certainly last for a long time. So we will still be able to count on state aid, in all these segments, and these billions of kunas clearly show that the state, beyond these measures it has now made, has released the entire income tax to local self-government, certainly and more than we want to admit ourselves, and that the figures themselves speak very much of concern, thus to the local self-government on the islands have the opportunity to realise their projects and develop as the islanders think, through their representatives, the mayors, mayors and their representative bodies. Here in the end, I can say that we will support the report for 2014 and 2015. We want the 2016 report as soon as possible. The island law, let's discuss it, I hope not this late in the hour and make it one more meaningful policy for a future period, for one specific area which is geographically little specific to many others and which simply needs the help of the state to survive this life on the islands. And looking at the effects of this tourist season, we can say that it is the islands of a large part of the money that is being invested in and returned to the state budget, counting that only 220,000 units located on the Croatian islands, that it is certainly a good resource in which the state can find its own interest, with the fact that the municipal and social infrastructure, the facilities that we lack, have to find the support of the state, although sometimes it is not easy, but I think with the administration now and which we have, this government has shown that it has very good intentions for the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52729	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am very glad that you as a man from the island have praised this report and praised that it has been done on the islands for many years, and this is the kind of report that actually shows how much investment is made over a year. But you can see one more thing. Yes, the problem of the island has already been seen there, already by forming a Croatian state and we knew what the problem was, that the problem had been solved for many years, it was said of 99 when there was one law and when we knew behind that what we wanted to invest in the islands. And that it now has one continuity and can be monitored year after year. However, I think the time has come and it is good that the representatives of the ministry are here, we also have one part of Croatia, where we have been talking for years about people leaving, the part that was Croatia's cereal, which fed Croatia, which is Slavonia. So it would be very interesting, and the government, if I remember correctly, had a cabinet session in Vukovar and then actually talked about the subject of Slavonia, about preparing a special law and about really doing something. So if the Croatian state, the government doesn't do something fast for Slavonia, there won't be people in Slavonia. So it seems to me that the time has come to trace the Island Law, to trace the fact that the obligation to report what has been made in the islands is conscious of what should be done on the islands, the time has come to really shed light on the problem of Slavonia and we are urgently trying to resolve it legislatively and in all other ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52731	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52732	My colleague Mrak Tritash, I think that through today's Law on the financing of units of local self-government has shown that right in Slavonia there will be one big step in terms of the fiscal capacity of these local self-governments, because almost all of what they have so far will almost double through income tax. Since they have the fact that Slavonia has a much larger population in both municipalities and cities than some island local self-government or Dalmatia or Istria, it has had very low incomes. So one part of this policy or project Slavonia is certainly an amendment to this Law on the financing of units of local self-government. If we could combine the data in one place, as we have united for the ransom, you would see how much we are investing in Slavonia as well. All these local self-governments in several of these counties, and that's not the only reason for me, building railway roads, infrastructure and everything we lack, the only reason people are leaving us is certainly not. But there is a measure, for example, from this law, such as these support, small values for entrepreneurs who are given half or one whole gross monthly salary per employee as one help to work or to keep their jobs or their activity on these islands, maybe it would be something that could change there, but we know what our limits are in some way through support of small values. Do we have any other options, that'll tell the government, but I think we're... Slavonia happens a little bit after all, regardless of how we don't have a feeling yet, like the people we're sitting here, that he's whole and that he's designed in a whole sense that every law just affects that area and that he's heading for that area alone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we'll see it after two, three years when more of these things happen, and when the benefits of these funds are greater maybe than they are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52733	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52734	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, Boric, you spoke about this report and I would say that this, like all other reports, is not only about reading numbers, but also about learning something, to see what is good that should continue in the next period, which is not good or bad and bad that needs to be fixed. You mentioned health care, I can't help but look back that... In 2014, only 346 000 spent on health care on islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you talked about county local roads then we see that it was invested far more, but yet unfortunately in Sibenik Knin County, my county only 14000 kn, unlike Primorje Goranska, where 10 million kuna was invested. It's a shame that we have this debate at such a late hour, that we don't bother reading and reading and data and making some quality conclusions to make the islanders better. Although statistics say that 51 units of local self-government live on islands, where slightly less than 3% of the population, we have the budget and resources of the total income of the Republic of Croatia, which crosses 5%, which could be read that this is a better situation than in the rest of Croatia. I would say that the islanders need far, far more, and that here, the legislators and the government would be advised, suggested, that in a different way they refer to those islands where and to basic health care is impossible to come by boat and for hours compared to those units of local self-government that we also find in these reports where they come in normal vehicles, so they have a bridge and that's quite another way and conditions are living.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52735	Thank you. A colleague, Boric, will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52736	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Branka, but I just wanted to, I touched it a little bit in my debate, but here's my advice, we don't need 600 pages of data, contributions, etc. That's what management has on it, let's put them on the outside, on the web, so they can be publicly available, let everyone watch them because they're good data, and the state certainly doesn't have to be ashamed because the amounts are really respectable when we talk about 50 local self-government. But I think we should take 10 basic areas of life on the islands and give a brief review of these reports in which the Island Law affects these areas. Because let's say here we're about to have a problem dealing with large-scale waste or dumps, communal waste where the islands are simply in a specific problem. To drive it to me I don't know, I from my Rab in Rijeka, in Marinscina, or another island in another central dump, it costs something. And we must allow these islands in their entirety to have a policy so that the more they meet their needs on their island. I was recently talking about the fact that, say, quarrys are forbidden and that we have to drive, I don't know, on the islands of a rock from the mainland. And every island is practically made of stone, we have it as much as we want. So the state needs to listen and the Department of the Islands and you at the Ministry of Regional Development to get involved in a job that's done by another ministry, to make it clear to them we think we have to do it that way. To help local self-government because the initiative of a local self-government leader is not the same as the ministry's initiative towards the ministry if we want to do something. So here's a perfectly good suggestion that you're thinking about how to treat islands and help them without having to cost the country a lot but to give us certain opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52737	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52738	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, here I think we'll go another day and there are some traditions for you in the House. You obviously fell into the tradition of late night hours, so not so long ago we had a strategy that was a minister, so it was also around 10, 11 p.m., and here you are late at night. Well, when it comes to you like that, you can expect it to be so. It's equally interesting that on behalf of the club I speak between two colleagues, one from HDZ, the other from the SDP, they're both from the island. And in Croatia we have no more than 1244 islands, islets and rocks, and of which there are 48 inhabited and islands according to the last reports live somewhere around 130 thousand inhabitants and I always like to compare something when compared, it is about something more to you than living in the city of Rijeka. So we just get a picture of what we're talking about and what we're talking about. Likewise, throughout the report and this report for 2014 and 2015, we are actually talking about that when you look at the investment that is on the islands, we talk about about a billion and a half a year on average. And we're not just saying that for 2, 3, 4 or 5 years, but we've been talking for a long time. When investment is for one longer series of years, then you can see some results and you can see some effects. With these results you can be dissatisfied, you can say they should be better. However, this report as usual reports coming to the Assembly should be viewed with several aspects. One aspect is that this report offers you, the way it was made and there absolutely we at the club GLAS and HSU have no problem, even moreover, made according to the usual methodology. The other thing is that you see a little bit of what really are problems. The same way I'm gonna say it right now, we're gonna back this report. Here you can see the problems, a little bit of what's going on and a little bit of this report when you compare in 2014, 2015, see some shifts and see some themes that are more highlighted. The report always, and this report talks a lot about infrastructure, talks a lot about traffic connection, and then a little emphasis should be placed on this reading for the future and that is the problem of draining. So, the problem is electricity, problem and roads that are regularly maintained but that remains a problem of draining, port of nautical tourism, and a little problem of fishing ports. Here's whatever I'm talking about from the continent between two islanders, I have to say I've been looking at the situation on the islands for the past 30 years. So as a boatman there in '85, '86. I started going around the islands, and now over the 30 years that I've been sailing, or as a boatman, I'm going down the islands, you see the shifts that happened. Something that was 30, 20 years ago on the islands unusual, and now it's a normal thing compared to some basic infrastructure that islands offer. Of course, those who live there can show some dissatisfaction and it is logical to show some dissatisfaction, but progress can be seen, which does not mean that they should not be better and should be better. Equally little when you look at and compare reports for 2014, 2015, I think the two topics in the 2015 report are significantly enhanced and this shows a new type of problem, i.e. a problem to be addressed. One topic is waste, the other topic is energy efficiency. So the theme of the waste is all of us who speak in the Parliament whether we speak on behalf of the club or we speak in individual discussions we always have some topics that intrigue us a little bit more. I use every opportunity to talk about sustainable development and to talk about climate change. And I'm absolutely convinced and I'm sure that this century, the century in which even what man created, hit him on the head, which we have an example of already directly seeing these... but also where we will have to give an answer and we will have to deal seriously with the problem of wastewater, the problem of waste. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem of waste is large on land but on islands it's extremely large and then we look at the waste structured into several groups, so the problem of the recovery of wild waste dumps. But what our experience has taught us is this, you have to solve the way waste is being taken care of because then it makes sense to take care of a wild dump. Experiences that have taught us that we have used large funds, EU funds, have remedied wild dumps, but until we have resolved the right to dump, we have created new wild dumps. Then the topic is the separation of waste. For waste separation there is also the role of units of local self-government, the role of the state is to encourage waste separation and you can encourage education and by providing even opportunity and, of course, waste should be seen not as waste that is now seen but as added value. And then we find in this report for 2015 that out of 50 units of local self-government that are on islands 20 units of local self-government actually have conditions for waste disposal. The conditions for waste disposal are different containers where you can come or separate on the doorstep and other things that are. It is equally important to have recycling courtyards and sortery and loading stations on the islands. These are the conditions that on the islands should be that we can even take care of quality waste. So the waste should be either separated on the home threshold which is a little harder on the islands than elsewhere, but therefore you have the possibility to separate waste and containers but it should really be kept in mind that absolutely additional funds are tied to the recycling yards of sorting plants and loading stations and data which is on page 392 that two units of local self-government in 2015 have built a recycling yard. And waste is certainly a special topic, which the topic is related to all of Croatia. I, of course, can't be a single debate without mentioning the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb has not solved it. We can manipulate ourselves under quotes, I mean positive not negative, really and education and everything else to solve in all of Croatia, but while the city of Zagreb has not solved this percentage is much more problematic and significantly smaller. But certainly extra effort, additional energy, additional resources that are not only a unit of local self-government but also central government and, of course, the use of EU funds. We come up with another topic, a topic that is related to the right to energy efficiency. And when you look at the 2014 report, then it was all very modest about energy efficiency. However, when you look at the 2015 report, you see that energy efficiency is particularly in the building industry that funds have been used, that there have therefore been energy efficiency projects in the building industry, not only in public-purpose buildings, and I mean kindergartens and schools that were a special programme and that programme should continue and these are the possibility of really using EU funds. This energy efficiency has several elements through which we must recognize it. So energy efficiency has the first element to immediately see that something is restored so it looks better, but it's just this look. The second element is in terms of environmental protection and CO2 and other. The third element is actually to invest certain funds. The fourth element to activate the existing workforce that you have and which is already becoming a problem, so in terms of operationals, in terms of the production of construction products, if I am not mistaken tomorrow is in the debate and the Construction Products Act. And the fifth element is actually quite important because as soon as something is done you and actually you do, you have the opportunity to hire people but you have the possibility in a certain way and to fill the budget of the units of local self-government because everyone who does it is registered, paying taxes and other things that absolutely fill the budgets. And it's equally convenient to see through this report that it was also related to energy efficiency and housing buildings. I remember not so long ago when Croatia entered the EU, when we had an obligation to certification houses then, of course, there was a big problem as we always had the topic of certification, apartments and other things, then at that point someone who had a lot of apartments said I would make a certificate because he had relatively little cost compared to what they were to benefiti. Because it's my interest to have an energy-efficient suite. And the interest is felt right away because as part of the climate change that I said I would talk about and I always say that summers are really very hot and we've all learned about one committee that wasn't before and that means that we like to be in pleasant air-conditioned places. In order for the topic to come to us now, in fact, the importance of energy efficiency on the islands as well. When you have your own apartment that you rent and which in terms of energy efficiency or the whole house is energy-renovated, you have several benefits. First of all, it's a really nice space. Secondly, you spend a lot less energy or electricity if this facility is energy efficiency and you are actually talking about your attitude and your attitude towards environmental protection because in this way you really have less impact on climate change. I remember not so long ago there was a story actually about the construction of wind power plants on the islands about the use of solar on the islands, so that some other species in the production of electricity were used. It's really a little bit stalled at one point, because that's where the theme of the islands comes in. They are and the problem is, there is always this problem especially of the coastal and remote islands of traffic connection, and all together in principle at a time when all of our islands are in the energy system and it is no longer a problem that when it disappears and there's a lot of chaos that we don't have electricity on the islands, the production of energy is actually more expensive and it's always a matter of maintenance, and when it comes to solarists, then it's big surfaces. And I'm kind of thinking Croatian tourism, and especially our islands can really boast of nature. Once you disrupt nature, you break it forever and then on one side of nature is the element through which you actually develop tourism potential, and then if you disrupt it more in that sense you do not develop tourism potential. Let me sort of conclude and bring this debate to an end at this late hour. The report as a report has been properly made. It is convenient always, it is convenient when we have for 2014 and 2015 so you can compare it. I could agree with my colleague, Boric, to maybe change the methodology a little bit, not to repeat some things, but to base on some of the things that are, which show the marked changes that are. This report, I'm also looking at it the next way. You can see here the changes that are happening in space, the changes that are happening in the economy, the importance that is where on the islands are, too, without big, with a good idea, developing this island product, actually this small production that can be. And that report should be looked at in that context, which is actually, what this country has done for the islands, and here I have to say that regardless of what investment it is. And what I said in the replica of my colleague, Boris, is the time to deal with some other parts of Croatia for a simple reason should be kept in mind sustainable development all the time. There is not a single document from the Regional Development Ministry level, therefore, which deals with development, that one of the first sentences or first words is not sustainable development. And simplistically, what would be the definition of sustainable development at all. Sustainable development means that no matter where you live you have about the same conditions no matter where you live in Croatia, you have about the same conditions. We know that in Croatia it is not a fact. These reports show that the islands are constantly invested, that islands are dealt with, that they can do better always better. However, the time has come to deal with some other parts of Croatia. In spatial planning it's called the otherwise skipped parts when you don't know what to do with one part of the city then skip it and leave it for some future time. For some parts of Croatia, these future times are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52739	Thank you. We also have a few replicas on your display. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52740	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here I fully agree with your debate. I just wanted to add to one part about you talking about green islands, talking about renewable energy sources, mentioning waste. For green islands, I think all of our islands have very good conditions except for that small segment of building devastation that is somehow being solved again through the legalization of objects, all the problems we're going through. I think they're all other segments, i.e. natural resources of the sun, wind, natural beauty, the wealth of mineral raw materials simply available so that these islands can really be green and that they can benefit from much for renewable energy sources. However, we simply need to determine that our system is clearly not ready after 27 years, it is not ready because every investor who wants to deal with this type of investment when it comes to Croatia encounters misunderstandings and when it talks about water turbines, when it talks about the not knowing the garbage burner through some modern combustion plants that produce electricity, when it talks about mini wind power plants. When you come to an island or a solar plant that could be on public facilities, at every house mini solar power plants don't, you simply meet or you can't get a license or you can't get a license or we're not ready in some segments or we don't have enough waste and we have too much for us so it won't be enough for some longer production. It means one system that changes from every government to every government. And every government thinks something else, and that's our story and with the waste, let's say where we made the least of the islands. We've got islands that have been taking garbage off their island for a long time, we've got those that select, and we've got those that haven't done anything. We'll just come at a time when it'll all close down, there'll be a problem. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52741	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Jova... and I'm sorry. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52742	Yes, it is. Thank you very much. So, fellow Boric, since the debate is this late, you always have to say something in the debate a little provocative, because otherwise everyone falls asleep. So when I thought about it and when the islands were supposed to be in another term, I certainly wouldn't have talked as much about energy efficiency and energy and waste as I was saying right now, because maybe that's why we all wake up a little bit because they're topics that are current. What we need to know is not everything for everyone. So you should if you have some comparative advantage towards other EU countries, and we have this comparative advantage especially when it comes to islands, we need to develop this comparative advantage. On the islands are natural beauty, no matter how many people live on islands, it doesn't seem to be an advantage, but it should be sensitive to any construction, devastation or anything else, but it should also be used by some potentials that islands have. The islands developed one great thing here, and this is the product of Croatian islands that is well-made, which is well defined and which actually shows about this advantage. And it's good that every time we don't go to the strawberries, but really, when any investor comes, then we should tell him right away to leave every hope because as long as we can and lead the wrong investor, and to doubt everything, it's rare to see, but I guess that's our destiny.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52743	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52744	Thank you. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you inspired me to the part that you spoke of energy, so let me say a few sentences, and that even the citizens of few of us who look at us, see that we benefit from our European representatives after Biljana Borzana who has ensured that we have healthier food in the future. We also have one project here called Tonina Picule, which is thanks to which it is secured from Horizon 2020, 10 million euros for islands right for islands, right for the production of clean energy. The tender will be launched in November of this year, the applications will continue until January 2018 and the contracts will be signed by April 2018 and will need to be implemented by 2020. So let's say it's an activity that will certainly be our islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52745	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52746	Well, that's right. You know, it's a lot simpler when it comes to energy, it solves it on land. When it comes to islands and here, that's why I was deliberately in the opening work and talking about those 48 inhabited islands of those 1200 and some islands, islets and rocks that we have. The current situation is much different than it was 10 or 20 years ago. But it still needs to actually invest in different kinds of energy and indeed an island that will also be energy independent, of course that green energy will have an absolute advantage. However, this and all together when you give your picture anywhere in Europe looks good and shows that Croatia is taking care of it. I kind of stress the energy-efficient renovated houses show that not only are we taking care of our wallet, which is actually quite convenient, but that we also take care of the general well-being and it is really important and it is important that we also provide the funds but it is important that we be prepared and spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52747	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52748	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, you've talked a lot about the need to build recycling yards, loading stations, and then it's really sad to see, for example. in the report, which tens of thousands of kunas were spent on building project documentation for the construction of mini cargo stations and recycling yards. At the same time for the transport of municipal waste from the island we have millions of amounts because indeed from a small island like Prvic and small distances to Vodice, transportation is paid a few hundred thousand kuna a year. The Environment Fund is co-financed every year but does not fully finance and the question is the moment when it will run out of funds. And there would point out the need to treat those islands differently where there is no ferry port at all, where driving and traffic by cars are prohibited compared to those connected to the bridge. So here's an appeal to all of us to invest as much as possible in the construction of project documentation for recycling yards and loading stations so that in due course, as little resources as possible should be allocated to transport from the island to the mainland.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52749	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52750	Well, that's right. So the topic of waste is the topic that we in Croatia really have to deal with in the most serious way and the islands are in one specific situation. And indeed, I agree with you and should make sure that in the future these funds are as little for transport as possible and as much as possible to actually get rid of some of that waste there and where it is made if possible. And it's not possible everywhere. So other than education, other than those green islands where you solve waste classification, the general awareness of waste should be different. I don't hear the word trash once. in the serious state, in the serious units of local self-government, waste is not garbage, but waste is added value and is earned. On the islands it's in one other condition. But it doesn't mean that even on the islands it can't be solved. I had a real chance to see the containers already placed on certain islands, and I had the opportunity to see from another context because it was a question of whether or not they needed a building permit, so then we made a lot of effort to show that he could go by the rule of simple works, that they didn't need a building permit. So, it's the effort that certain islands do, but as it's not all the same, some are doing a great deal of work and they've gone one step further, some are doing it by driving to the mainland, so it's going to be what it's going to be, and some of them haven't dealt with it yet, but they're going to have to deal with it all. Like waste is a problem on land, the island is still a problem and indeed everyone has to deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52751	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52752	Thank you. Here's the last ferry at 23.59, I just thought I'd catch it. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is a report for 2014 and 2015. First of all, colleagues and especially colleagues, Boric said something in the debate. I have to admit that this is in a normal time of debate because the debate would be in the morning, and we would actually listen to the Lamentation of the Living Wall and the team about how to live on the islands, it's not very interesting to me. Only if it's possible that it's not exactly 11:00, but somewhere around 7:00, that would be more polite. Yeah. The second is the report. So this is the 2014 report. There's seven of us in the hall, so let's see some actuality. In 2014, it was the World Cup in football. You remember who Croatia was in the group with. It should take a little bit more time to remember. So it's been a long way from us for almost three years. And the time when there was recession, the time when there was a recession. In 2015 we then exited the recession and the report that actually tells us about the time when the law was implemented by the government whose member I was and Mrs. Mr. Mr. Taritash and Mr. Jovanovic, who in fact now is the third government after the second government or the third government then referred again to the Croatian Parliament twice again. So she before this Oreshkovic, then Plenkovic. But I don't think the text of the report itself except for the procedure that's usually going on isn't much of a change, so then, before me, the representatives of the HDZ Club said to praise the report. Club Glass, too. Therefore, I remember my first debate in the Croatian Assembly on the Report of the Law on Islands. I was a new and young representative back then, and that was the first topic I spoke about on behalf of the club, I think. Mr. Bacic is I think he was a reporter as in the Ministry of the Sea. There was Mr. Boric as an assistant at the time, or he was a state secretary, I don't remember anymore. And he was, and then even the minister came, so it was one topic that, so it was morning all day, and Friday was like this for, like, ten months, I just remember that. Now let's get to the report. So we have one paradox. counterpart Jovanovic mentioned the euro of MP Piculu, who in one project provided 10m euros for the islands. On the other hand, we have remarks from mayors and mayors from various parties on the island that this Law on the financing of units of local self-government is stripping them of 16% of income tax. And it wouldn't be bad, so the Department of the Islands that's formed, which should actually work, imposes that observation by the Ministry of Regional Development as an interested ministry towards the Ministry of Finance in the second reading. I'd like to see that opinion if it isn't. I think even as a government, we've made sure that they're inaccessible under the law on access to information, so we can write it freely so that it doesn't come out to you in the paper. But on the other hand, we'd like to see, we'd like to hear your attitude about it. The second thing I want to say in 2014 or 2015 is island IDs have also been introduced. I have to admit that I was opposed to that idea at the time, because I thought that we already had all the information we need on the island card on our ID card and that we didn't need another document. But after I got my island ID, she actually became more important to me than my I.D. It says "OIB," so when they're looking for me, then it's easier for me to take it, and even with it, I can identify myself. So I don't need a ID anymore, that's how it is. The issue of traffic connection during this time period has acquired 4 new ferrys. It is at this point I could say for most of the islands at a satisfactory level, but this year, although it is probably happening every year that the winter timetable began in 1.10 and that because of the good tourist season we still have tourists on our islands. So, if winter this year or next could start and a little later, it wouldn't last us like in Siberia for 8.9 months, it would also adapt to what's now reality. She mentioned a colleague of the Dark-Taritash population. It really is 120,000, but for example, the island of Krk has 3 million more and 800 thousand overnight stays. The infrastructure and all investments made cannot be worked on the number indicated, which is so-called The winter number, rather than the number of people who use this infrastructure when it's mostly on an island that's one isolated whole again, so that we don't lose water, without electricity or without something like that in the middle of the tourist season. From the problems we are still facing, I would therefore single out the question of competing on EU funds because of the unrealistic calculation of the development coefficients that clearly do not respect island specificities. However, the 2014 table shows that, in fact, the number of inhabitants has grown in the islands. So while the rest of the country had a population drop, the islands were slightly larger. It is, of course, that by improving, or progressing the tourist season, islands become something more attractive for people to live there. The improvement of transport connectivity is an increasingly minor difference between this one handicap in terms of transport connectivity and the possibility of free movement. So, at the end of the hour by ferry to Split or from Korčula to here 20, 15 minutes is used to drink coffee in the morning and all that together, so it's not some big problem anymore. But, of course, you should always be alerted to specificities because people who are from the mainland don't always, not their own fault, feel enough for what makes life different on the island from life on land, and that's why we're from the island or someone from the island, etc., we're here to warn. The SDP Club will vote in favour of this report on the implementation of the Island Act for 2014 and 2015. I think that traditionally for 15 years, 20 years, actually 15 years, 20 not yet adopted, that such reports are adopted unanimously or almost unanimously, and I hope that the 2018 report that we're going to discuss in the late night hours, somewhere there in 2019, 10 months, will not have this part of the cancellation of 16% of the income tax for consumer municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52753	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52754	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, I also said in the presentation that each of us has such topics that are interesting to them. My theme is that I've always found climate change interesting, so I haven't resisted giving up a replica about your findings and your timetable, which is from 1. The 10th, regardless of the fact of the time and changes that occurred, was different. For years, we've been hearing about the desire to extend the tourist season. And for years, we have been hearing about the need to extend the tourist season not only from the 7th, 8th, but from the 9th and 10th, and what is absolutely possible on the southern islands of the Dalmatian islands. There can indeed be some kind of tourism in the 10th month, so this change, i.e. returning to the winter order of the ferry, is absolutely inappropriate, and in this sense it would really be very convenient for our shipowners to take account of it and be a little more flexible than they are, because in the context of that, really, if we want to have the development of tourism and the possibility of access to islands in as large a number as possible, then we must first and fundamentally make sure that the timetable still needs to be adapted to new climate change or to that date, regardless of how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52755	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52756	Well, I totally agree with you, of course the name winter train has been usually for a long time for a period of 1.10 there until 30.4. or 31.3. so maybe you should call it a little different. Of course, it would be easier to explain if we had the data in a difference in the number of passengers in October last year and this year, if it were a more sensitive difference, then perhaps the shipowner could predict that from the following year its winter starts on 1.11. and not 1.10, so 7 days after the end of the calendar summer, but well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52757	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras, he's not here, he's losing his right to debate. And then we get to colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52758	Thank you very much, Vice President. I thought that the debate would end much earlier, though, so it is essential now to get into some broader elaborates, I wanted to say more about the importance of education and health services on our islands, given that it is certainly one of the reasons that will allow people to stay on islands if they can educate their children and if they can have an adequate health care service. I think my colleague Juričev-Martinchev made a mistake, that she saw only one item, so she said that in 2014 346 172 kuna was allocated to health care, it was only in one segment that concerned e-instruction in telemedicine, so the amount is much higher, it's also millions, not in thousands of kunas. What many have said, we need these reports to help us see where the problem is. We are already in 2017 to solve these problems more successfully, so one of the problems I want to highlight here, although it is more focused towards the Ministry of Agriculture. Krcki fishermen and North Adriatic fishermen are bitter with rules that are brought to the detriment of karst and North Adriatic fishermen so that practically there are almost no more fishing vessels, as regards, of course, the rules on fishing for blue fish, so here, I appeal to the State Secretary today to finally help organise a meeting of Krk fishermen with the Minister of Agriculture to address the problem. I hope that we will be successful in withdrawing European funds because obviously we will need these funds because the proposal we heard today despite Mr. Boris's conviction is not a good proposal and will go to the harm of island municipalities and cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52759	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, he will finally say something to the esteemed State Secretary, Ms. Nikola Klajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52760	I thank all of you for your constructive discussion and for your suggestions. It would say only for the start of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds plans through a mini operational programme in the next financial perspective to provide grants from European funds precisely for projects on islands mainly related to the use of renewable energy sources, waste management, environmental protection and disposal. That's something you're all talking about. We believe that it is not possible to implement all these major projects from the Croatian budget and we will ensure that European funds are available to our islands or islanders. As for the first issue that we have been asked, so the Ministry of Regional Development in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and other ministries is taking care of the even regional development of all Croatian regions and we believe that precisely the fiscal balance proposed through the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government and regional units, that this is one way to achieve even regional development, and that this is one way that we think in Croatia, that through this financial balancing, it will achieve a level playing field for living in most Croatian areas, which is not the case today. 16% of the income tax you've actually been talking about today, that is, about that law, which according to the current law belongs to local self-government units on the islands is a means for capital projects. And annually they come true somewhere in the height of 45 million kuna. I would like to point out that I have data that in fact the 10 most fiscally strong municipalities and cities on the islands 50 uses 51% of that amount. I therefore believe, so I would like to say that through the fiscal balance proposed in the new bill, funds are provided to cities and municipalities on islands that are less fiscal capacity. The compensation measures are also envisaged in 2018 and 2019 which will be available to them, so I believe that the proposed fiscal, fiscal balancing model is actually favourable to cities and municipalities that are less fiscal capacity. Here's so much from me. I thank you again for your constructive discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52761	Thank you very much. But we still have two more replicas. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't want this debate to go away without me as an islander, so I just wanted to tell Mrs. Secretary of State, the assistant minister that this law we've been following since 2004 has been consummated for us islanders. He no longer represents the step he had in 1999 when he was adopted on the basis of the National Programme of the Island. What the law predicted was all done, all obligations, programmes, incentives, subsidies under the law were made, and now it needs to move on. It is good that the Department of Islands prepares together with other ministries a new law that should make this step, because it is still time since 1997 when the National Development Programme of the Croatian Islands has been adopted and today a completely different situation. The islands used this law and we islanders had significant subsidies when it comes to transport integration and water supply, and when it comes to fostering the economy. But today, when Croatia is an EU member, the law must be laid down by valorising in a different way access to islands. In fact, I don't think two categories of Croatian islands are enough to make the difference between life, standards, the economy on Croatian islands. And what is important, I think, is that it is important to define certain economic activities that have been achieved in accordance with European legislation to be transposed into our legislation and that we can help today those islands that really require such assistance. Some islands may not require the Law of the Islands, but some islands need much more than the present - day law does. And I think that should be your ministry's job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52763	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52764	As one great scientist said, everything is relative. So that equalization of inequality is a relative term. It would be good, of course, if you could bring the worse ones closer to the better ones, so you don't bring these down any better than you just lift them up. But if you're going to even it out so that those of you who are better off taking something from them so you can give them something to the bad guys so that you can even them up, then of course you're not right about those who are better. So the reduction of differences should go to the state to help these bad guys get closer to the better ones, not to help them get closer to the bad ones and help them get a little closer again, because then these good ones will get worse. I think there's enough verbal dribbling for midnight and fifteen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52765	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52766	The report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2014 and 2015 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2014 and 2015 is hereby adopted, please vote. I find that with 103 votes for, 16 abstentions, the majority of votes have reached the conclusion that it was transferred by the National Assembly Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52767	Now we move on to the next point. This is - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on areas of special state care, first reading, P.Z. No. 38. The applicant shall be a representative of Darinko Dumbovic on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. The government delivered the opinion you received. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Darinko Dumbovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52768	... But here I come from the proud Sisak-Moslavina County, and I'm sure all we have to do together is make decisions in the interest and citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County, but also this law that we will do together. [[Specially enabled.]] What I can say is that in the amendments and additions to the Law on the Fields of Special State Care, I was primarily encouraged by the fact that I am meeting in the area from which I come. It is Petrinja, it is Sisak-Moslavina County, but also other areas of the Republic of Croatia in order to change the situation which is primarily exposed to citizens and citizens in these areas who are placed simply in a discriminatory position. It is about Croats who have moved from BiH, Kosovo, Vojvodina and other parts of the world and today live in an area of special state concern where they have been moved not by their own free will but by war and conquerive policy that has forced them to do so. It is Benkovac, Drniš, Glina, Gospić, Knin, Karin, Lipik, Novska, Obrovac, Otočac, Pakrac, Petrinja. In these areas they are populated for what we like to say, the even development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia, demographic and economic progress. The amendments and additions to the 2011 specific state care law have overlooked the possibility of the donation of houses or dwellings owned by state in these areas, until there were restrictions on other areas on the donation of houses to those areas which put the settlers in an unequal position. Today, 20 years after the house they live in, they have so-called. There is still an open issue of their permanent housing. Only in Sisak-Moslavina County over 480 families are in this difficult and unequal position and it is certain that in that part of the house in which they live the Croatian state has already bought for them and those in them alive, some 20 years later, and it has been said that after 10 years they will pass into their property, and that has not happened, unfortunately. But they're not at the end of their... all this real uncertainty, uncertainty, concern and for all families living in these areas and these facilities are not acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croats who moved from BiH in the most part, but also Kosovo and Vojvodina today are discriminated against, live in conditions of uncertainty, inability to continue to rebuild and edit houses and their facilities, and we know very well that we are also talking about energy recovery and many possibilities for improving the quality of life in this area. With this I want all of you, regardless of the parties, ideologies, what's most important is to sensitize, the entire Parliament, not you tonight, but maybe some of you who listen to us coming from the area where we are and we're tortured, and we can do what's most important to ask ourselves the question of where is the solution to this problem? These people prayed, visited different institutions but without results, kumilas, prayed, came from areas that have definitely been abandoned for 20 years, today we work on many projects to have a better life and I think in this life they deserve the safety of their family and a safe home. I appeal to all of you to help because the fate of entire families depends on us, it's about the great financial means but the resolution of the fate of these people is no longer that price. What I have to say for sure is what's very important, and that's through a few historical data in this matter. Law on the field of special state care from '96. for years, the possibility of acquiring ownership of the house or apartment for the past 10 years of continuous residence in the facility has been prescribed. That means giving. And at the same time, this category of users as exiles, refugees and immigrants moved to our areas in '95. and in 2000. Secondly, the subsequent legislative changes of 2000 were given the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the conditions of acquisition of ownership on its own, so the new provision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2003 completely abolished the right to donate facilities in the past 10 years of continuous residence in a family home or apartment. Here, thirdly, in 2008, a new Law on the area of special state care has been adopted which introduced the possibility of donations except for the numbered settlements of the units of the regional self-government and so the legal solution is still in force today. The fourth, disputed legislative provision of 2001 is the result of the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the need to settle out-of-town settlements in areas of special state care. ... certain specific criteria, rural and not rural areas within the specific area of national concern, have not been defined but have been collected areas of special state concern formed by other assumptions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In view of all of this, the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia living in these areas, whom the legal solution exempts from the way of remembering ownership by giving as possible to housing users in other areas of the Republic of Croatia, consider that they are discriminated in the area of housing and the basis of their social status or social origin. According to the views of associations that represent the emigrated Croats from BiH but also in the opinion of many, we can simply say that if you are the user of a state facility for over 20 years in Petrinja, you cannot get a donation, but if you are a user of a state facility in a neighbouring village in Petrinja that can be physically and 100 meters from the border line of the Catastrian municipality, then a state facility can be donated to you if you may be in that facility much shorter. Here, I think through this everything I said that we could one clear message that people in this area are looking for a definitely way out. An exit in which we could first of all have what is most important, a good future, security and all that through what we should get through this law. I know that this law that has been proposed is not the most ideal, we know that no law can satisfy everything and I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must do exactly what is most important and that this is to help and that what we in the field of special state care have experienced from one of the greatest injustices, and believe me, it is a return. Returning to an area that had been destroyed by war, an area that had traditionally lagged behind in development and an area that was simply needed to enter the economic facilities, then entered the houses. People have a place to live but they have nowhere to work. It's one of the biggest mistakes that we should have been able to solve as a Republic of Croatia for all those economics that belonged to that moment at that time we can say, in one of the most independent layers of society to start an economy, it's past us, but now that we're moving as far away as possible, the question is what is now a safe home for these same people and how can these same people have their own future? We need to make sure, we need to take off their fillings, I need to see what's most important, let's say one financial projection so we can have it in the budget and we can vote the budget in the interest of all those who live there. Here, I think that all you can say, I think you, Mr. Mazhar, is that in that part I will accept and see which we can make adjustments and come together to vote and to the result of the mood of all those who live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52769	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Affairs, Mr. Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52770	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the draft law amending the Law on the Fields of Special State Care submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Darinko Dumbovic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament not for the reason of substance of the proposal, but for the fact that the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is preparing a new draft of a law that will, in a unique and comprehensive way, address the issue of housing rights in areas of special state care including the issue proposed by this proposal for a law relating to the amendment of Article 10(2). Law on areas of special state concern. The new draft bill will primarily address housing users in areas of special state concern but will primarily go to the future of these areas. Namely, the Law on the areas of special state care has been amended six times so far, it has lost its purpose, it has been adopted primarily for the purpose of returning, in order to restore these areas and what we must look at is the staying of people in these areas and therefore, first of all, the new draft law will go towards demographic renewal of these areas, even development of the Republic of Croatia and certainly this proposal will be considered and put into a new draft of the law that we expect in the next few months. I must point out that by coming to this government we have already taken concrete measures, or the Government of the Republic for this year has increased the budget of the Central State Office for renovation and housing by 35 million kuna and the limit that will be for next year will also be increased, so I expect that we will also go through new laws and budgets in this direction that you have asked for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52771	Thank you. It's a replica of a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52772	Yeah, well, it's not a replica, but here I am thanking you for articulating a great deal of what I said, and I think you're going to do a job in the interest of all those who are going to get at the end of that house, and if there are any problems, we have a model of the amendment and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52773	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first reported on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, not here, is losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, MP Kreso Beljak, is not here, losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, MP Miro Bulj reported, is missing, losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52774	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Kologa Dumbović, a colleague of Rosčić, a colleague of Bačić and a colleague of Arsen, is in front of us of the proposal for a law amending the Law on areas of special state care, indeed the real demand and the need to solve the problem of the BiH settlers i.e. Their housing. In fact, they are placed in an unequal position compared to others if they are assigned real estate in areas of special state care by the first and second group but outside urban areas. The applicant therefore requests that, in Article 10, paragraph 1, point 4, a portion of the text other than the property located in Benkovac, Drniš, Glina, Gospić, Croatia Kostanica, Knin, Karin Gornji, Lipik, Novska, Obrovac, Otocac, Pakrac, Slunj and in the counties of Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja. As it is in preparation for a law that will fully address the issues of housing rights in areas of special state care, including this problem proposed by MP Dumbovic, the government is of the opinion not to support this bill. Therefore, the HDZ club will not support it either. Namely, also in the plan for the normal activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under point 56, the adoption of housing law in assisted areas is planned, the holder of the construction of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing. At the same time, the Minister of Regional Development established a working group for the creation of the Law on Supported Areas, so here we are not going to support this law now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52775	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Miro Bulj has come forward. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Then a colleague of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll keep working tomorrow in, i.e. Today on 12 October at 9.30 p.m. Final draft law on regulation of the rail market and protection of passenger rights in rail transport, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 153. I wish you the rest of the night! Session interrupted at 12:21 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-11-0.u52776	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fields of Specific State Care, first reading, P.Z. No.38, the applicant is a representative of Darinko Dumbovic. The debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law amending the Law on areas of special state concern is not accepted, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 81 for, 35 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. But I saw a few hands in the air. First call from my colleague Lovrinović, here you go.
