ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47392	And now we're gonna put that aside and Mr. Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47393	Dear Mr. Vice President, I demand a break on behalf of the club Let's change Croatia to report to the public about the harmful initiative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the CNB for the rapid introduction of the euro as an official currency in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47394	You have permission. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSS Club, I request a break concerning the declared state of the natural disaster of drought in most counties and compensation for the damages that farmers expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47396	Also approved break. Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47397	Thank you, Vice President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA club to discuss problems and prospects in Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47398	Agriculture?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47400	Also approved. Thank you very much. Ten minutes, now it's 9.33, at 9:00 and 50, we'll meet. It's 9:00.33. Next time we meet at 9.50pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47402	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable MPs and MPs, respected citizens who follow us. There seems to be no end to the bad proposals that have recently come from the government but also from the CNB. For certain circles in Croatia, Kuna has since its introduction, it is May 30, 1994, to remind, until today it was actually an unwanted currency. As you know, money is one of the fundamental features of statehood, the sovereignty of a country next to a flag, borders, constitution, anthem and an army and money is an integral part and a sign of the statehood of sovereignty. However, our kuna has never been used for development, for the encouraging development of the Croatian economy. What happened on the other side? It happened that the euroisation of the economy was strongly forced, and in particular the monetary system, and the use of other currencies and bindings for other currencies, above all for the euro, has today reached about 70% of the total monetary system, i.e. the total amount of money in Croatia. Now I'm asking you, let's run a monetary policy if your money, our money, swears, only has 30% in the monetary system. Well, gentlemen, that's impossible. No one has ever spoken of it to the Croatian people. So whose interest is now the quick introduction of the euro? Whose interest is that? First of all, banks and importers. Why the bank? So they take and owe their banks abroad, and they have to return to that currency, too, in euro. Therefore, it is simpler for them to have the euro in the whole area. The EU is not a Union of citizens, it is a Union of capital. The capital doesn't like borders, national and any other. So it's clear what's going on. Who else does the quick introduction of the euro suit? Importers. Why? Because they can calculate so in their domestic currency, they practically have no currency risk and there are no other problems. So, it encourages citizens and the economy to become even more in debt abroad, to increase imports, and in the meantime, our economy stagnates and slowly collapses, and more and more declines. So now you're asking each other a question. Okay, maybe we're smart, but why else, say, Denmark, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, why didn't they, especially these highly developed, introduce the euro? Well, they're obviously smarter. Denmark, Sweden, highly developed countries, and they are not and do not want to introduce the euro. Now, how are the experiences? I don't have a chance, of course, because this is a short time to talk, this is a very important issue that I would have to discuss at a special thematic session. When the financial crisis began, in 2008 and to date, the highest rates of economic growth in the EU proved to be those countries that did not introduce the euro. It is Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania. So, and it's very important to say. In this context, they can say that the request for quick introduction of the euro into Croatia is a requirement for us to sit on a fast train towards Greece, which is the best example of the country which has become a difficult EU patient and which, by losing their drachma, monetary and exchange rate policies, remains tied up and the country will not be able to get out of the problem, it needs to write off the entire debt. In this context, what is particularly important becomes a political issue but also professional. Why now's initiative to introduce the euro by the CNB? It is a desire to draw attention from responsibility for the failures made and the case of the Swiss franc, Austrian savings-credit cooperatives, consumer protection, high interest rates that destroy the economy, etc., as well as preparations for the election of the new leadership of the CNB. Why does the government want a quick introduction of the euro? Well, she listens to Brussels anyway, and she doesn't have a national interest in the first plan. And that's why gentlemen, let's be smart, we use our kuna but with a new CNB that will really take care of the national economy. The introduction of the euro has yet to begin thinking in 10 years and therefore, let's be smart, let's not crash because we already have a lot of problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47403	Thank you, Professor, thank you. Mr. Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, I asked for a break to discuss the problem of agricultural producers related to the declared natural disasters during this year and the major damage caused by the elementary disasters in Croatian agriculture and the deception of agricultural producers that this would also be compensated through the insurance policy if they provided their crops and crops or through a tender measure 521 to compensate through rural development measures, measure 521. Namely, a month ago, two of us had a full cover of droughts destroyed farmers in Slavonia and Dalmatia, and they were all like that with these agricultural producers, we suddenly shut up. At the moment, damages are being collected by the county, the county commissions have not yet processed everything but in those preliminary reports, the first damage reports, the damages are only in the Slavonian five counties, over 500 million kunas reported and also in other continental continental counties of Bjelovar-Bilogor County are expected over 100 million, Koprivnica-Cryzevac County, as well. And farmers rightly expect a government reaction, because if the drought has destroyed farmers, then the government and the minister must find a way to help them. Did agricultural producers deserve to worry, I'm sure these figures speak for themselves. Because if the yield of corn is reduced to over 60% in the fields in Slavonia, if soy and sugar beet failed by over 50%, lucerna over 80%, and in seed cultures, especially seed corn, the yields were reduced by up to 90%. And it's not just the damage to warfare because of the reduced crop, and then the income of the family farms, it's also the damage in livestock. Because first of all, there's less food. So the cattlemen will have to buy more food on the market. Secondly, the milkiness of cattle has been reduced, the amount of protein in milk has been reduced, and this is also reflected in the income of the reduced family farms. The minister has repeatedly said nothing to worry about, we have through a tender of 52 150 million kuna, all sign up. And the second thing he told them is to make sure you're safe. I've contacted several insurance companies. Rarely, it provided crops and drought plantations. Even those involved in the sale of insurance policies were reluctant to sign, i.e. they corresponded to the agricultural producer from an additional one, because it is an additional one, insurance, extra cost. And the point is that between 15.5 and 15.8 is the period followed by the long-term downturn average. And if it happens to you as it happened in 2014 that at the end of May big rains and even it was a flood in Brod-Posavina County, you will not have the right to compensation from drought and if a drought is declared, because it is not just the amount of rain, but also high temperatures, and they have also had temperatures of over 35 and 40 degrees in the plantation itself, the crop of corn. It just doesn't get fertilized, and that's why there's such huge disproportionateness in the yield last year and this year. Therefore, agricultural producers expect that once reports are now delivered countyally, the State Commission for Fundamental Accidents, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance, will increase the amount in the state budget for compensation for damages. We from the Croatian Peasants' Party have also said that there are too little 20 million kuna in the state budget to compensate for the damages of natural disasters. We suggest that this increase to 50 million kuna, that each ministry saves a million kunas at the national team, lunches and expenses, here's the money. I think that's what our agricultural producers deserve, because to a extent of 521, to which the minister directs agricultural producers reduced income and yield is not an acceptable cost. Are agricultural producers an acceptable cost to this government? I think we should, because if we don't do something now and help them, they're gonna run out of agricultural production. 65% of cattlemen, dairy producers, have already disappeared. There are 20,000 families missing in the register, over 100,000 young people from Slavonia and Baranja disappeared. This will be another trigger to stop the development of agriculture. Then we won't need either the Ministry of Agriculture or the Minister and the minister will be an unacceptable cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vlaovic. Mr. Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47406	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am also going to take part in the presentation of my colleagues on the situation in Croatian agriculture. I'm going to add that according to statistics, according to the State Statistics Office, we lost 22% of the production of corn compared to last year, compared to 16.4% of soy compared to last year. Also, ten times the production of seed potatoes has decreased in the last 20 years. There are also some positive figures, but they are very small and they are one-digit percentages. The general trend is catastrophic, so I think we need to think deeply about agriculture in Croatia. Where we see perspective, that's why we've proposed changes and additions to this law that I have in my hand, which is given in procedure. The drug abuse laws are right in new exotic cultures. In particular, these changes concern the cultivation of hemp into three segments – medical purposes, agricultural purposes and recreational purposes. Of course hemp is not an exotic species, it's always been there, it's been used for tens of thousands of years. In the 1960s, it was banned and became one of the most vicious plants in the judiciary and in criminal law. However, world trends, scientific research, give a completely new light to the possibilities of these plants. It is known that more than 25,000 different products of course can be produced from textiles, ropes, with huge potential in energy where they can be used as fuel. Of course, in the automotive industry, biodegradable plastics can be produced because of hardness and degradation. In Croatia, as we know, hemp can be grown on at least 1 hectare of surface, and the share of THC in dry matter must not exceed 02% or such hemp is called industrial. However, the biggest problem in this segment is the fact that plants cannot be used whole. So it can only be used for food, for humans and animals, while on the European market there is, therefore, permission to use a whole plant, so our proposal is going in this direction. So, for industrial production, this law proposes to use the entire plant and there are no restrictions. In another chapter, use for medical purposes. I'll just remind you that the use of hemp for medical purposes in the last few years across Europe and the world has been given a new swing. Many countries such as Austria, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Slovenia, the United Kingdom, etc. They legalized the use of hemp for medical purposes. Some of the latest scientific studies talk about the enormous potential of this treatment plant, watch out for AIDS, PTSD, allergies, asthma, Crohn’s disease, diabetes, glaucoma, various types of infections, eczema, and according to articles published in the prominent journal Nature, also in the control of cancer. That is why, we have made this legislative proposal, which in medical use touches that regulation that was adopted in 2015. However, these changes are not allowed for patients to grow hemp for themselves. Our amendment of laws allows patients with medical problems whose hemp can facilitate or save lives to grow indefinitely as much as they need. Also, the last legislation only allowed imports of finished products, which we consider harmful to the development of Croatian agriculture. Why, for example. It would not give the Immunological Institute, the Croatian firm as one of the perspectives for the future, which I have put forward in the conclusions of our commission, that it is the one that deals with manufacturing for medical purposes. The third head is about the use of recreation, it's known that it used to be a crime scene, now it's a violation. The decriminalisation of small quantities of Indian hemp for personal purposes is also in line with the requirement for the proportionality of the sanctions required by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. Our proposal is aimed at legalising the cultivation, processing and use of hemp for recreation up to 6 stems for personal use, without being able to hold the same. So a natural person should not put on the market hemp from his own breeding unless there is a registered activity for it. These measures will contribute significantly to the development of Croatian agriculture, a new and yet old culture with huge potential is being introduced. We follow the world's trends, watch the future and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47459	The word came from the esteemed representative Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47460	Dear Chairman, I would like to talk about the situation in the Croatian judiciary and therefore take a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47461	Of course, I'll give you a break and then we'll meet here at 3:00. ... No, he asked for three, we'll meet at three and seven minutes here. ... [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] No, I always stick to the Rules of Procedure as you know, both positive and negative. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] MEETING AT 14.49 A.M. After the meeting at 15.00 colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. The time for a break is up and will now speak on behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall and Power Club, the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47463	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian public has greatly shaken the situation in the Croatian judiciary because, as we all know, the judiciary is unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47464	Comrades and colleagues, a little peace I ask that my colleague Pernar may say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47465	Unfortunately, the judiciary is corrupt, the judiciary itself is a purpose and the judiciary protects certain people. Today, two rulings shocked the Croatian public. One is the liberating Tomislav Horvatinčić, and the other is the parents of small Nora Šitum whose parents must pay 200 thousand kuna for the cost of the trial which reminds me of a case not given to that firefighter who survived the tragedy on Kornati who had to pay also 200 thousand kuna court costs. Such cases do not instill trust in the judiciary, especially for one reason. Namely, the index.hr wrote the following thought today, he says: “The Horvatinčić was released for fainting. See what he was saying in 2011." So in 2011, Horvatincic explained that in fact he was aware of everything that was going on, that he tried to warn persons from sailing that he was not in control of the ship and there was no way to prevent the danger that was created. He says, in that press release, there is no "said-said" here, the man made a public statement. He says: “Unfortunately, my attempts did not help prevent this tragic collision.” But then and now Horvatincic does not have the same story. So, he later on on trial changed her testimony and now he claims that she fell unconscious at the moment in question which is total absurd because it's amazing that someone right after the events and years after him claims one thing, and then eventually during the trial changes the testimony and starts to claim something else. And Horvatinčić, even after four dead people behind him, freed the judiciary once more and it can be said that Tomislav Horvatinčić is the only person in Croatia with permission to kill. As for the Nora Shitum case, so it's the same legal circus for reasons which means an association that should've told the brave child should've helped their child, that money their child never even got their family, then they asked for that money and they lost the dispute and now the Association, watch out for that absurd association that helped their child now asks them to settle 200 thousand kuna costs. The rulings in Croatia are disastrous. But there's another case, another legal absurd, because unlike those two, three cases, they don't concern me personally. However, one of my concerns is the Stankovic case where journalist Stankovic sues me for doing him no harm because I said he was a bad journalist, incompetent, party colored, etc. Why am I having trouble with his Excellency Stankovic? The reason is that I asked for a public trial and that is, my colleague Ana Tomic wrote the following, she wrote to the Municipal Court in Zagreb asking to allow the recording of the hearing in the case of me and Stankovic. However, what did the court say to her? The court said: "The judge said that he did not agree with the request to record the hearing for reasons that would interfere with the normal course." But be careful with what explanation. The explanation is that it's enough for a guy to come to trial I don't know, two, three people who are public, so it's like a trial public. So, the fact that 4 million people will not be able to see him is obviously the Municipal Court in Zagreb or Judge Nikola Raguz anyway. I ask you, do we in Croatia have the right to a public trial or not in the case of Pernar v. Stankovic or Stankovic v. Pernar? The public trial, unfortunately at the Zagreb Municipal Court, is not allowed to question the actual integrity of the trial itself, because one of the basic preconditions that the trial could be considered fair and fair is that the public may have insight into it. And from this case, or by the decision of this judge, that will be impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47466	Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47468	The Honorable Chairman is asking for a break because of the terrible situation in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47469	Comrade Pernar, you haven't unfortunately been here all day, I am, there were numerous breaks in the morning. One party even asked twice, and then I said we wouldn't have any more breaks because everyone could say it, and then I invited all the clubs to say whatever they wanted. And I'm sorry, your club was here, your colleagues were present here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47470	But my dear colleague, it is now afternoon and we have the right to rest and afternoon, we have no right to rest only in the morning. I don't know, maybe you have some other Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47471	No, but I'm then calling everyone to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47472	So people won't ask for a break when you invite them, but they'll ask for a break when they need it, and they'll take a break, because they're looking for a break, not a chairman, unless they give it away. I'm asking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47473	... No, no, he can't, he can't, is he gonna stick to the Rules of Procedure or we're not gonna stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If someone calls on the Rules of Procedure then we have to, then we will, I'll give you a break. But I repeat, your club members were here, they could have called, they wouldn't have called. [[Intruder Pernar: Thank you.]] I've been calling everyone to get back to you to sort it out. [[Intruder Pernar: But for another reason.]] And not spend all morning on breaks. [[But I shouldn't have then, now I need it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47474	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47475	Ten minutes. It's 15.40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.50 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47477	Dear ladies and gentlemen, our people have less and less confidence in the Croatian judiciary every day. Recently, in recent times, the Croatian public shook the verdict of Tomislav Horvatinčić, who was naturally liberating. It can be said freely that all political criminals, or crime politicians, have been freed from Croatian courts so far. I will dare to mention only examples of some, Milan Bandic, free, says he paid 15 million kn to the bailiffs. Ivo Sanader, free, all judgments against him are on fire. Zdravko and Zoran Mamić are free, released with bail out. Horvatinčić has been released, Bozidar Kalmeta, the process has just begun. Nadan Vidosevic, free, Branimir You are free, God knows which way to judge him. Petar Cobankovic, for the punishment of a Guli potato. Ratko Cat, free, says he got a warning. Mladen Barisic as a penitent changed his testimony, awaiting a new trial, free of charge. Marina Lovric Merzel also free, Tomislav Saucha colleague of ours, free as a bird. Damir Polancec, free, Robert Jezic, pledged to pay back 5m euros, never returned them, free as a bird. Ivan Čehok, free, Free Ljubičić Kikaš, free, 5 million kn bail he gave. However, this could be added by Mr Ferencak of the HNS, he is also free. It could, it could be said, that other people who as politicians were put into some kind of crime were all set free. And then, obviously, people see that they can't be convicted, and let's say, that's that classic example, the Bear Dog is convicted, Grandma Minka, 3 days or 6 in prison for some small debt, etc. What I'm saying here is, I'm the prime minister, and to see that the situation in the judiciary is a disaster, to see that the police, the DORH and the courts aren't doing their job as they should. So, let's say HDZ is free, too, the verdict against them is broken. If I were any kind of a diameter, I wouldn't say I wasn't doing any influence on the DORH, the police and the courts, because they're boasting about it, like we don't. So if I saw the disastrous results, so I would influence, I would say, so you judges, so you have to judge fairly, I would tell the courts, so what are these judgments, what are these judgments, ladies and gentlemen? But instead of dealing with justice, he simply says so, so I have nothing to do with it. Now, that's the trio of the government that actually, and I remember here, you know who's the only convicted, recently, the judge who said the court was corrupt. He said the court he was working on, he says, there are judges who are corrupt, they punished him because he said so. So, there's one law of silence, the government is actually a mob, with the support of a political summit that's not at all interested in it. And as I said, our citizens are unfortunately hostages of this kind of justice and there is no mercy for them. For them for a single kn, their heads will be taken off and those who have blacked out billions ate a wolf donkey, nothing. Until when and why God knows. We can only assume, but what is certain, that while HDZ, Bandic and the team around them in power have no shift for the better, there is no brighter future and Ivica Todorovic was actually right when he said that what is happening now is a big play, a big farce and circus, because he also knows that it will end in fiasco. The only difference between him and the others I've listed as the liberator is that he doesn't want to participate voluntarily in the farce, and these others were involved in the circus, which ended up in a fiasco for the rule of law. Or, for what we call a state of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u47478	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53121	All right, good afternoon, everybody, I've seen your hands in the air already, but sooner we'll just read the point we'll have after the probable request for a break. It means point: - Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2016. The applicant is the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities under Article 13 of the Electronic Communications Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, and the Government delivered an opinion. And now we're gonna put that aside and Mr. Lovrinović, here you go. Thank you, too. So we're going back to the item on the agenda Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2016. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Mr. Tomislav is with us... No, no, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me Drazen Lučić, President of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. Here you go, Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies of Parliament MPs, distinguished gentlemen of Parliament, good afternoon. The annual report of HACOM shall contain a report on activities in the markets of electronic communications, postal rail services, or on the activities of the markets that HACOM regulates, and on the financial operations of HACOM in 2016. HAKOM is not a beneficiary of the state budget, but is financed from the regulated market and accounting is managed in accordance with the law on financial operations and accounting of non-profit organisations, the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on Postal Services and the Law on the Regulation of the Railway Markets. HAKOM was very conscientious and responsible in 2016. ... HACOM expenditures are fully covered through regular revenues that HACOM, in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, collects on markets for which it is relevant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the previous years, HAKOM raised funds that remained neutral, and the surplus of financial resources came from the very responsible operations of HACOM, among other things, because the public procurement and implementation of the projects spent less money than planned for certain activities. HAKOM’s surplus resources were generated over the previous years and, in accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications, returned the market through socially responsible regulation, thus helping to develop both the electronic communications market and the entire national economy. In 2016, HAKOM returned part of the neutral financial resources among other investments in software support, as well as assembly and computer equipment, to the socially responsible market regulation. Investments are part of their own HACOM programme of Internet development and broadband Internet access, in areas of special held care, mountainous mountain areas and islands. Unique projects from the programme except for the spread of fast internet availability in Croatia, in an area where there has not been a case, as an additional value, have had a positive impact on the development of the economy in Croatia and on the area of electronic communication. Croatian companies that received a job competition under the implementation of the programme hired new workers and received references to the work done in the EU Member State. The planned amount of capital donations for 2016 is unfortunately not fully realised, first of all, because I, HACOM, in preparation for the procedure, have been assigned dependent on the prior delivery of the necessary documentation by selected target users, ministries and state institutions. In the absence of any formal legal conditions for all targeted users, as the documentation is quite necessary, there were no formal allocations. The total personal income of HACOM in 2016 is around 77 million kuna, and by about 1% are less than planned and, respectively, less than 3% compared to the previous year. The total expenditure of HACOM in 2016 amounted to something over... Millions of kunas and lower than planned for around 205, i.e. by about 28% compared to expenditure in 2015. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The expenditure for HACOM workers in 2016 was about 6% lower than planned. The rest of the savings achieved by the good management of HACOM,... The negative result of the business is due to the financial plan for 2016 of the capital donations, and the part of the investments and expenditure of HACOM is financed from the funds collected from previous years which are in accordance with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, around 12 million kuna amortisation was included in the expenditure, and in fact the money flow in HACOM in 2016 was positive and HACOM increased its surplus revenue by an additional amount of around 7 million kuna. Total... for 2016 is almost 15 million kuna, which is about 80% higher in 2015. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, due to the completion of the construction of the new... Centres in Split, and obtain control of measuring equipment for the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The surplus revenue is available in the next period, which is transferred in 2017 to nearly 53 million kuna. The surplus of these revenues will primarily be used to invest in the development of the market that HACOM regulates, i.e. for the development of the digital economy of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the applicable legal provisions, around 730 million kuna was paid in 2016 for the benefit of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of compensation for the right to use radio spectrum is the address of the numbers and the fee of powers and licences. This amount is less than in 2015 for around 19% because the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2016 abolished the network of mobile communications that have a contractual obligation with an operator a monthly fee of 5 kuna for the use of radio frequency spectrum. The collection process has been difficult due to numerous pre-banking agreements by market communication stakeholders, and yet the amount of outstanding claims for the state budget has been significantly reduced from around 11 million kuna to something over 7 million kuna in 2016. In 2016, HACOM continued to work towards regulatory objectives and principles in the markets of electronic communications, postal services and rail services. The objectives and principles include the protection of competition, the protection of users of services and the effective management of limited national natural resources such as the radio frequency spectrum and... the number space, which has been established by HACOM's annual programme for 2016. HACOM's emphasis is placed on promoting effective investment, innovation with the insurance of competition and respect for the principle of discrimination, promoting regulatory predictability, preventing discrimination against operators, ensuring a high level of consumer protection and effectively managing limited national natural resources. A particular emphasis has been placed on new technologies in the electronic communications market and on the consistent application of the Law on Postal Services and the Law on Regulation of the Railway Market for the purpose of the rapid full urbanisation of these markets as part of the EU Single Market. All electronic communications market operators in the Republic of Croatia in 2016 achieved 11 billion 258 million kuna revenue, approximately 3% more than in 2015 and this is the first increase in revenues since 2009. Income of all services other than revenues from telephone services in fixed communications networks that have a tendency to fall globally. The following trends in the 2015 electronic communications market in the Republic of Croatia and 2016 continue with investments in infrastructure development, advanced technology, innovative services, and in the electronic communications market last year operators invested 2 billion 548 million kuna, slightly more than in 2015, which is 35% more comparing with 2014. A further increase in the operator's investment can be expected under the assumption of a reduction in operational costs, including a possible reduction in fees for the use of radio frequency spectrum. The electronic communications market was fully prepared in time for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU but the multiannual negative impact on the operator's income in the Republic of Croatia is due to the automatic application of additionally reduced roaming prices and wholesale prices regulated at EU level. Also, users are increasingly using free communications services based on Internet access, so-called. ... these services such as Skype, Viber, WhatsApp and other similar services, thereby reducing income from classical services such as public voice service, SMS or MMS. Furthermore, the negative impact has a pre-fashion of some operators' network of fixed communications as a multiple higher compensation for the use of radio frequencies which in 2014 must be paid by mobile communications operators. However, despite all the difficulties in business during 2016, market consolidation continued while the market remained stable as a whole with very high protection for end-users. The market for electronic communications in the Republic of Croatia during 2016 marked the further development of broadband services and the increase of revenues from Internet access, which is only a confirmation of the above-mentioned thesis. During 2016, there was a slight increase in broadband internet access connections through networks of immovable communications with a significant increase in data traffic. According to the density of broadband internet connections through a network of immovable communications by the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately it still belongs to a group of less developed countries compared to EU member states, and according to the density of connections in mobile communications networks in a group of developed countries. However, the wrong development of the Internet... is only relative to the number of inhabitants. Namely, no matter how many residents there are in each household, the connection will always be one. The average majority of households in the Republic of Croatia are 2.8 people while the EU average is only 2.3 people. It follows that according to the above, the Republic of Croatia would reach an average of EU Member States only in a situation where all households in the Republic of Croatia would have access to the Internet. According to the RS, the availability and representation of broadband is at EU level. Broadband Internet access is available in 97% of households, and 70% of households are already using Internet access. Regardless of the increase in users, there is room for even stronger growth in the segment, especially in the area of the light source network. In the past period, there has been a significant increase in the number of 30mbit/s access speeds and more which, with the large investments of operators in the past year, only shows a trend in approaching EU average levels in the years to come. At the end of 2016, their share increased from 0.5 to about 12% of the total number of broadband connections, today that share is already 20%, which means that each fifth Internet user in the Republic of Croatia today uses access at 30mbit/s and higher. The growth of such connections and the increased investment of operators are a positive consequence of the regulatory measures adopted over the past period, and additional incentives will be to use eu funds to build new networks in rural areas where there is insufficient commercial interest in their construction. Such an increase in the number of plugins so-called. fast internet directly contributes to the growth of gross social product. That growth in the Republic of Croatia is necessary, among other things, because of the danger of deepening the digital gap between the Republic of Croatia and the developed EU member states. In the Republic of Croatia, significant regional imbalances are present in the number and density of broadband internet access connections into a network of immovable communications, and this fact is already a challenge from increasing the density of connections at national level. In 2016, regional imbalances were somewhat facilitated by investments in rural areas and islands through HACOM's support programme as regulatory measures and the assignment of digital dividends and the introduction of so-called LTE technology in mobile communications networks. HACOM's programme for the development of broadband systems in rural areas or HACOM's Internet development programme and broadband Internet access in areas of special state concern and mountainous mountainous areas and islands included in the Strategy for the development of broadband access for the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2016 to 2020. The aim and purpose is to balance regional development, bring together target groups such as school, health and public institutions on a network of broadband Internet access and introduce applications and services that dynamicise the economy and improve the quality of life in those areas. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the Republic of Croatia, adopted a framework national programme for the development of broadband infrastructure in areas where there is insufficient commercial interest in investment. HAKOM has been declared the holder of the Framework National Programme and has created basic preconditions for the start of work on broadband development projects in rural and poorly populated areas of the Republic of Croatia where operators have no interest in investment, using state aid including those for the Russian Structural, Investment Fund. That decision was also the basis for the implementation of the measures set out in the Action Plan for the implementation of the Development Strategy objectives relating to the implementation of the Framework National Programme. The European Regional Development Fund is available at 123.1m euros and the funds are intended for contracts signed by the end of 2020 with the implementation of projects by the end of 2023. A further 86.2m euros are foreseen for the national broadband development programme until HACOM is included in the programme. HAKOM has expanded its work cycle through the role of the National Framework Programme and has internally redistributed workers who have passed basic education in the EU funds area for the new area of action. A new website has been launched on which, in addition to monitoring the phases in the sale of projects, it is published by all relevant information, documents and guidelines and answers to frequent questions related to the Framework National Programme and its implementation. HAKOM, as the holder of the 2016 Framework National Programme, preliminarily assessed all the adopted... The infrastructure and through workshops and counselling worked on information, education, unit of local... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] self-government to enable effective preparation of drafts of these projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of the other positive indicators on the market, it is also worth singleing out a significant increase in users of the service package as well as an increase in the share of other operators compared to HT, Croatian Telecom, broadband Internet access through fixed communications networks. It has also increased revenue from network and water rentals, all of which is a confirmation of the competition and good regulatory decisions of HACOM. The topics to which HACOM pays more attention are the communication between machines as part of the Internet of things and cloud computing, mass data, and... First of all, because of the regulatory challenges these topics bring with them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, as part of HACOM's interactive GIS portal, data on the locations of basic radio stations, mobile communications networks, dvb transmitters and... measurements carried out in the process of checking the compliance of basic radio stations with the permitted levels of electromagnetic fields. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to meet the requirements for data traffic growth and to provide quality services for users, it is necessary to set new... radio stations and collected data are published for public interest with a view to the availability and visibility of information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2016 as well as earlier years, a large part of jobs related to labour control... The spectrum concerned the measurement of interference from Italy which, along the coastal area of Croatia from Savudrija in northern Istria to Prevlaka in southern Dalmatia, interfere with the reception of Croatian radio and television programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The result of years of measurement and reporting of disturbances as international activities through the institutions of the international... The ITU and EU communities have resulted in positive developments in the field in early November 2016, i.e. it has begun to exclude Italian international non-compliant transmitters that transmit on channels used by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with international regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to fully complete the procedure later in January this year, resulting in a better quality of reception of Croatian TV programmes along the Adriatic coast. Extensive measurements of electromagnetic fields have also been carried out, with more than 120 measurements of electromagnetic fields in 70 cities and municipalities and additional actions of measurement of electromagnetic fields at kindergarten and elementary schools near which there are sources of electromagnetic fields. On this occasion, the measurement was done at 156 locations throughout the Republic of Croatia, covering 82 kindergartens, 67 schools and 7 playgrounds. The measurements carried out showed that the levels of electromagnetic fields are significantly below the level of electromagnetic fields prescribed by the Health Ministry Regulation at all measurement locations. In addition, as part of everyday... measurement from fixed control stations for the purpose of work control... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the spectrum was made more than 4000 measurements during 2016 while the various field measurements were carried out more than 1300. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] HAKOM has found a suitable location in the city of Split during years of searching for a suitable location for the control centre and branch in Split, which meets the conditions for measuring... spectre and business conditions for the accommodation of equipment and employees, and after the entry into force of the necessary documentation and arrangements for construction during 2016, the construction of the business facility of the branch and control centre of Split was started and it was completed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the second half of 2016 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This facility is one in a number of HACOM facilities that are part of critical national infrastructure and national security systems. HAKOM was involved in the creation of a new National Security Strategy and HACOM representatives are members of the National Council for... Security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Upgrade the introduction of new... and regular maintenance of the base and numbers transferred, management... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and numbering space, inspections in the field of electronic communications networks and services and radio and telecommunications terminal equipment are also some of the activities in the responsibility of HACOM which contributed to the successful market development in 2016. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From other activities of HACOM 2016 should be singled out among other certificates of the right pathway, previous opinions on spatial planning documents and specific conditions of construction and confirmation of the main projects which... the creation of an electronic communication structure base contributes to the settlement of the situation in this area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In cooperation with operators and units of local and self-government, projects are being prepared to build, access and use electronic communications infrastructure and networks, which will directly contribute to faster and better use of EU funds and public private partnership funds. Since 2016, HACOM's regulatory measures have highlighted the determination of wholesale conditions in line with the interests of the Croatian market and the further development of competition. All were without a problem approved by the European Commission and successfully prepared on the market, which is a great success and another confirmation that the Republic of Croatia has been excellently prepared in this part to enter the EU single market. The postal services market in the Republic of Croatia is part of the EU's single market and there are certain trends that occur on the EU market at our disposal. The total number of postal services is slightly smaller than the year before, so the negative trend continues. However, the fall is not as expressed as in other EU countries. For the cost of traditional postal services where the drop was recorded, value added service packages had a growth in the number of services, primarily as a result of an increasing volume of e-commerce where postal services play a significant role. The reduction in the total number of services did not affect the achievement of revenue, the supply of postal services, so that the total revenues increased compared to the previous year, which continued a positive trend in 2016. In 2016, over a billion and 500 million revenues were made in the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia, which is about 5% more than in the previous year. The largest impact on income growth has already been highlighted by an increased number of services with one of the added values and packages appearing within e-commerce. At the end of 2016, postal services in the Republic of Croatia provided 23 postal service providers which provided services on the basis of applications submitted. The biggest provider is the Croatian Post Office, which has an 80.5% share in the total postal services market, which is about 3% more than in 2015. Among the most important regulatory activities carried out by HAKOM, it is necessary to isolate the revision of the regulatory report and the cost model of Croatian mail, the calculation of the net cost of carrying out the mandatory service and the monitoring of price regulation... services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These activities are important in the light of the importance and role of the mandatory service, i.e. its sustainability and accessibility throughout the Republic of Croatia and particular in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia where they are one of the preconditions for increasing the quality of life and the development of the economy. HAKOM acted proactively and correctly by implementing measures aimed at promoting competition and investing in the postal sector with a view to creating a level playing field for all providers, protecting users of all postal services and ensuring effective provision of universal service. HACOM's activities were focused on all stakeholders of the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia, on education and the formation of postal service users and on the protection of their rights under the supervision of postal service providers. The Croatian Post Offices network did not change in 2016 so that it remained the same number of post offices as the year before. Therefore, in keeping with the importance of postal offices for quality of life in rural areas, Croatia has kept over 300 post offices more than is prescribed by law and regulation. Croatian mail in rationalising its business related to the number of post offices focused not on closing the office but on finding a move to more frequent locations. The liberalisation of rail freight transport appeared alongside the historic freight carrier and new carriers so that in 2016 all new freight carriers gained the conditions for carrying out transport on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thus in 2016 there were 7 freight carriers, 1 passenger and 6 freight carriers, excuse me, 7 carriers, 1 passenger and 6 freight carriers. The development of competition in the rail freight market in 2016 does not indicate significant market developments or has led to an increase in the competitiveness of rail transport compared to other modes of transport. It is evident that still a dominant road transport. The quantity of goods transported and the tonne-kilometres of rail transport achieved are at the same level as the previous year. while passenger transport continues to record a reduction in the number of passengers transported. However, competition on the freight rail market has brought about changes in such a way as to reduce the share of the historic freight carrier in tonnes of transported goods. The situation in 2017 points to a significant improvement as the increased volume of goods transported and the share of the market belonging to new carriers has reached 25% showing the first positive results of market liberalisation. In 2016, it was more than a year ago that the use of the railway structure and rail services and that several carriers used the railway infrastructure. In 2016 HZ infrastructure showed revenues from the provision of rail services totalling around 145 million kuna, down from about 6% compared to the year before. Renovate and... During 2016, more than one billion kunas were invested, the largest amount of funds over 50% invested in the construction of new railways and railways, 1/3 of total investments were invested in the reconstruction programme and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a railroad for international traffic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These investments led to an increase in the average commercial speed of trains both passenger and freight. HAKOM continued to implement proactive, corrective regulatory measures aimed at promoting competition, the interest of rail services. The measures were relevant to the content and implementation of the report on the network of infrastructure managers, the report on the network of service managers and these acts are key for the relations of infrastructure manager and service operator according to the applicants for infrastructure capacity applications. HACOM has been committed to working on ensuring a high level of protection for end-users of services, in their relations with operators, providers of carrier services, and to enable the availability of a simple and accessible process to resolve complaints and users. 2016 marked the adoption of... rules that pay great attention to preventive action particularly in the area of sales outside the operator's business space or through means of remote communication. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the regulation that regulates this pragmatism in the Consumer Protection Act for all traders, in electronic communications, is sectoral... rules for operators when they perform as traders, even though they offer or sell their roles to these channels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As an additional form of protection for particularly vulnerable consumer groups, such as elderly, HACOM has, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, developed the ‘Don't Call’ Register. It may include any natural persons contracted by a public voice service to one of the operators on the Croatian electronic communications market. Consumers who enter their number in the register and who do not have a valid direct customer privilege may not call for sales and promotions otherwise violate the Consumer Protection Act. The protection of users was carried out reactively by resolving disputes or by making a binding decision on cases of disputes between users and operators. Such disputes in 2016 were 1415 of which were positively resolved for the consumer of 30%, noting that as few positive decisions as possible for users, this is the work of the Consumer Protection Commission in operators better. Compared to 2015, the need to make a different decision than that operator decreased by 5%. The majority of the complaints of the user operators manage to resolve themselves with the user, in the first two stages of solving the user's complaint. All requests by users have been received by all regular communication channels in HACOM, including a direct phone line, as soon as possible. ... all cases including requests for dispute resolution may be concluded that more users are aware of their rights and obligations as an operator and are willing to exercise their rights in an objective way to resolve the dispute before HAK. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The maximum number of complaints is the user of postal services,... postal service providers in which the Croatian Post Office is the largest donor in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's hard... the formation of users, on their rights, has produced a fruit where users and on this market are increasingly aware that certain rights can also be exercised before HACOM. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since 2015, the provisions of the Law on the regulation of the market in rail services on inspection supervision in the area of the protection of passenger rights have been in force and the dispute has been resolved by HACOM on the basis of the opinion of the Committee for the Protection of the Rights of Consumers of Services at HACOM. In 2016, a brochure on passenger rights was printed for the purpose of their information which was shared among other things and by all stations in the Republic of Croatia. Special attention is given to another vulnerable group of users and these are children. The best way to protect information is to know the services with the proper behaviour that parents are responsible for. HACOM therefore directed some of his activities to raise awareness and knowledge of children, their parents, responsible behavior when using electronic communications services. In addition to marking the Day of Safer Internet in collaboration with the Ministry of Science and Education and with Croatian Post, a project was launched to produce and deliver 46500 information brochures for students and their parents in all primary schools in the Republic of Croatia. HAKOM requested and received an indication of dealing with people with disabilities from public communications service operators. Taking into account the accepted indications of disabled operators, equal access to public communications services is ensured, and as an additional type of promotion of rights and concerns of disabled users, an internet application called quiz has been published. In the context of international co-operation, HACOM regularly participated in the work of international working groups. HACOM experts participated in a number of international conferences, and within the framework of domestic cooperation there is a need to highlight very good co-operation with all ministries, state administration bodies, regional and local self-government units as well as with other regulatory authorities and agencies. In addition, cooperation with the universities of the University of Zagreb, Split and Osijek should be particularly highlighted. In 2016, more software applications focused on improving business processes using Internet-oriented technologies were excessively overrated. In addition to applications aimed at external users, HACOM has accelerated Internet processes by introducing new information solutions and platforms. The most important programmes aimed at increasing organisational individual groups, regulatory abilities were interdisciplinary studies on the regulation of electronic communications markets at the University of Zagreb, the project "View into the Future" in collaboration with the schools in Zagreb, Split and Osijek, and the development of foreign languages of a special English language. At the end of 2016, 173 workers and workers were employed in HACOM, and despite the increase in the number of jobs, there was no increase in the total number of workers and workers in HACOM. The high and higher professional equipment has about 84% of employees. More than 50% of the employees are under 40 years old, while HACOM currently employs 8 doctors of science and 17 masters of science. In HACOM, more workers work than workers, and it is worth noting that HACOM has the same number of department heads and managers, and that HACOM has received Man Force certificate under the European project towards the real equality of men and women. In HACOM, there are a number of employees who are volunteers of the Homeland War, defenders or come from a family of defenders. The outflow and inflow of HACOM employees was very low for years, and in 2016 it was minor. HAKOM left only one worker in 2016 for employment in her own company. The interests of HACOM employees are represented through the Working Council, and the co-operation of management and the Working Council is very good according to the mutual assessment. The satisfaction of employees of working conditions and labour rights in HACOM is very high. Dear ladies of Parliament, I thank you for your attention, dear gentlemen of Parliament. And together with the present Deputy President of the Council, Mr Domagoj Jurjevic, I will try to answer all your questions and to those to which we cannot give you an immediate answer, primarily because of the time limit, we will send you as we have so far done the written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53124	Thank you, too. And you're going to have exactly 7 replicas right now. First Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53125	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Lucic, my friend from Slavonia would say, “if I had sucked my oar, I did not swallow the boat. ” Often when I listen to these reports, we can look back on what is the main problem of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, which is that we often put private interest ahead of the public interest. Why do I think this has to do with your report? In the Republic of Croatia there are millions and 60,000 connections via fixed networks on the Internet. Copper nets or connection copper wires somewhere around 450 thousand, and optical connections have only 6.6%. The fast fixed internet is expensive compared to EU countries, and when we look at pay averages, then we are 28 out of the 28 EU member states. So, the situation isn't bad. You stated in your statement on May 31st that it wasn't exactly like that. You stated there that over a million broadband connections via a fixed network of them are about 20% access connections of more than 30 megabits per second which is a step further towards achieving the digital AGENDA. You have stated in your report now on page 18 that the availability of NG infrastructure is constantly growing and you have also stated that large investments are operators in the past year. What is not good and what the media has written, you are this state, the state of affairs, that it has well stated everything in internet access, in fact told the public only a few days before the Commission's decision to award 101.4m euros for the development of so-called ". Infrastructure highways. On the one hand, the European Commission says it is not good, it allocates the resources of the Republic of Croatia to develop the information system, and you argue in your report that the situation is still good. That's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53126	Thank you. Mr. Lucic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53127	Dear Mr. Zagar, I thank you for your comment on the state of the electronic communications market. This relationship of 20% of these users refers not only to the light line, but also to the copper infrastructure. So we're talking about 30 megabits per second and more that aren't just on the power grid, but they're in other technologies. So it doesn't have any disagreement. As far as the EU's allocations were concerned, that was before the speech, I mentioned it in my opening part. It's 86 million for broadband infrastructure, that's not at all questionable. It is about the capacities needed in the rural area, and I have pointed out in many places that it is not a good situation in the rural area, that we need funds and private investors and European funds. This applies to these 123 million that HAKOM is co-responsible as the holder of the Operational National Programme, and plus these additional 86 million, which was allocated in the fifth month by a decision of the EU. So I don't see any inconsistency in our report with what you said. I emphasized that the rural area... working, overall statistical doesn't look so bad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when we look at this digital gap between the developed part of Croatia and the underdeveloped part, that's exactly the problem where we need to work more, that we invest far more in the rural area, not just in the city centers. And then there's one priority, priority of HACOM's work as a regulatory body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53128	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53129	Thank you very much. You're saying working with the board of directors is very good. But you don't mention the union or the final verdict that you and HACOM have been sentenced to try and ban the supervision of the structure and the functioning of the union. So you're convicted of banning the union. You say in your report, you don't mention spending $240,000 on legal services. By public procurement law, did you call a tender, we don't know you're not saying that because you didn't call it because it's 2,000 kn for years, and it's also in 2016. I would like you to answer these questions, particularly regarding this verdict of yours, because you are giving a report here in front of the Croatian public, who are you to violate the Constitution, Art. 43. The Republic of Croatia Constitution, which determines what democracy means... Human rights, union, union organization, you're convicted, you and HACOM, of banning the union's activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here, explain, how you're still in a position of great responsibility and very important, and you're acting as the greatest dictator, who gave you this right? This Parliament doesn't. This House has not supported your previous reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53130	With a little word dialing, it might work out better. Here you go, Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53131	Dear Mr. Bulj, I thank you for your comment and your opinion. No one's been convicted in HACOM, that's one thing. You must first read what it says, secondly, the working council is that it represents the interests of the workers, and as far as union work is concerned, please let me now say what I have, and then you can later say in the replica. And no one is forbidden union work, nor is organizing any union branches. There's at least one union branch that works, maybe even more, that doesn't interest me at all, because professional service and workers, they have a job contract, and everything else is signed by the head of the professional service, first of all by the union council. It's also not the correct information on the cost of attorney services. And I would like to point out that in this year alone over 500,000 is not charged in court disputes that HAKOM received against external users, and it is specific legal matters for which there is no expertise, lawyers who work in HAKOM, and if they were hired, they could not have full time, as far as outside associates, which is usually the case in all institutions, companies in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53132	Mr. Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53133	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lucic, so let my replica go in the direction of a broadband internet, so the report itself shows that the number of those who have access to a broadband internet is relatively good, but what is certainly felt on the ground is in rural areas, where simply that speed of broadband Internet is not exactly in line with what is often declared. Somehow in that report, it might be good for me to do it for next year, to see exactly in the county how that speed of broadband is moving and, of course, it's not always the same in the county. We also have in the urban districts, where it's much easier to achieve higher speeds and we have those rural areas where it's much harder. The packages offered by operators, they are the same for each other, then it's said to the possibilities that they are and there I think that often times in rural areas, it's very difficult for people to prove that the speed they have, or in those measurements it turns out that the speed is good, and when they use the Internet, then often they come into a situation that that speed is not exactly at the level they should be at. In rural areas, it often happens that these defects are much more common than they are in urban areas. So somehow for next year, it would be good to do a review of the tables or graphs to see how it changes from county to county and how it is within the county itself between urban and rural parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53134	Thank you, too. Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53135	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you for your comment and your opinion and your proposal for improvement. I agree that exactly the rural area is a key problem for... Internet access of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was recognised, discovered in the national programme, it was recognised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Regional Development, where 2/3 of Croatia is currently not in the area that is commercially interesting to operators. And just these 123 plus 86 million would mean 210 million euros would be used in the rural area. In our comprehensive report there are close to 200 pages, there is a graph that shows exactly the distribution of the county and that is the problem. All 4 or 5 are counties above the average of Europe, and the other 15, 16 are well below the average of Europe. In these areas with assistance and HACOM as the holder of the framework national programme, through these programmes, the development of a wide access internet and EU funding is aimed at making significant changes by 2023. Since this programme only came to life in July last year, it is difficult to talk about... With results, we expect a public call from the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds that should be by the end of this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the first results can only be expected by the end of 2018. But of course, this proposal of yours will take into account, that is, in the next report, we will show a little more detail about the distribution of the Internet, about the high speeds in the areas. He would also point out that for many years Hakom has introduced a free aid before any EU country, a software available to HACOM websites called Hakom, which allows each user to measure the actual speed of data transmission. And it serves as evidence in the appeal of the applicant to HACOM and has been doing so for years. Unfortunately, not everyone may be familiar with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53136	For the same price, everyone should have the same favor, yeah, that was the point. Mr. Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53137	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Lucic, in his report, you yourself pointed out that not all regions have the same possibility of accessing broadband fast internet, and you cited opportunities from eu funds to resolve this irregular distribution. I know of a good project launched by the town of Nova Gradiška with surrounding municipalities that is in the high stage of preparation, so I'm wondering if you might know when and how many such projects are in Croatia, when every house we from HSS will have the opportunity to access the broadband internet? You also mentioned and I welcome the possibility of receiving radio and TV signals and mobile networks and reducing interference from BiH and Serbia, especially in villages at the foot of Psunja, Papuka is there villages such as Drežnik or... which cannot still receive a high-quality HTV signal, and the problem in the villages explain to the wife in Oprisavci that you were not across in Bosnia because the signal was taken over by some kind of operator. So I certainly welcome and that we should insist on it with operators to reduce these disturbances. And when you mentioned mail and pointed out that over... that there is more than the law requires I welcome it, however, I suggest that you consider that all those offices that are closed open again because surely there are at least a hundred more in Croatia who would be justified to continue to work in post office because when you close in one village post office, trade, district school, veterinary clinic that village no longer lives, that village is dead and therefore the young leave and it should not be just your job but the job of a complete government to stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53138	Thank you, too. Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53139	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I fully agree with your comments. Together with Transmitters and Liaisons, we are already talking about improving the reception of TV signals in certain areas in particular in the border areas of the Republic of Croatia. As for the signal from mobile network operators, it is a matter of commerciality, however, we are in contact with the operators' administrations and have pointed to the problem, especially in border areas towards BiH, where higher altitudes come from more propaganda not only of mobile signals but also of radio and television. As for the post office we have from about two weeks ago a new Croatian Post Office and we will talk to her about this particular problem. So not only close existing offices but even extend the working time of existing offices or open some of the offices that have already been closed before because, as I pointed out in the opening statement, it is part of the quality of life in the rural area and one of the preconditions for the work of the economy. For your specific question regarding eu funds, we know about Nova Gradiška and your project to develop broadband Internet access which is one of 40, so 40 of these projects have. In 38 of these 40 projects, public debates have been renewed, and they have formally obtained the conditions to report to the ministry of regional development and EU funds. When that call will be, I don't know, but what we have knowledge that should be by the end of this year that call that would last a few months and would be open by the end of 2018, by the principle that the first applicant has the advantage, provided he meets the conditions. But again about the knowledge that we have as the holder of the... programme already now the unit of local and regional self-government meets these conditions has projects ready to be submitted and to withdraw funds from EU funds, which is a good indicator for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53140	Thank you, too. Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53141	Thank you very much. We at the HDZ Club will discuss this topic in areas that it includes and we will not enter into the forensics of colleagues Bulja and their intentions to account for each report personally with you because we do not think it is the task of this report, regardless of their wishes. I think the space here is almost 15 billion kunas of income and activity and deserves attention. What interests me is the possibilities of this regulatory agency in the space of relations between local self-government and state operators or operators in fixed networks and resolving their relations. I don't know if you have a list of local self-governments with which operators have solved the issue of using infrastructure in the field of units of local self-government, that list I haven't found anywhere, so that we finally know how much that space is and who solved it, and who hasn't solved it. Why am I saying that? Because we have a situation that, until the basis of the Law on Electronic Communications, the issue of the use of infrastructure in the area of municipalities and cities, we have a situation to do so illegally, so it is descriptively illegal and should not be allowed because they then charge users for services through illegal infrastructure and should finally be resolved. Do they have to solve the municipalities on their own request? We as local self-government can do without 10, 15, 20 thousand of their kunas, but do they care about being illegal and doing their job, that's their question. Who is it that drives and when do they finally think to solve it? Here's what I'm asking you for, can you get that list out of the way and finally get to the bottom of this issue because this question needs to be settled for the benefit of people and all of us? No harm done to anyone, but let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53142	Thank you. Mr. Lucic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53143	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, I thank you for your comment and question. The problem of the electronic communications infrastructure base is long-term in the past 3.5 years, with the help of the historical operator of Croatian Telekom, the situation is far more orderly, far from being ideal and well but far more neat than it has been in the past 20 years and the next step is the cadastre of the waters of the State Geodesy Administration where one of these layers would be all the data of all operators in the area of the entire Beautiful Ours on Electronic Communication Infrastructure. Historically, there is that right of service with Croatia's entry into the EU, or to prepare for entry. The Institute of Certificates was introduced right on the way, so it has one mixed state inherited historically where some units of local and regional self-government agreed with the operator, and lately more has been going on the right path. We have a recent ruling from the Administrative Court that will help us speed up this process, because we now have a very well-organized database of electronic communications infrastructure not only with a historical operator, but also with other operators. We have experience with a number of local administrations and regional self-government, and what represents one problem not only for us but for all of us in the Republic of Croatia, which we have 428 municipalities and 127 cities. So it's quite divided, detached and opens up the possibility of actually individual agreement between some units of local self-government with an operator, which then creates a certain kind of disorder. As far as the list goes, we'll check if we can and can legally publish that list. If there are no legal obstacles we will announce it safely by the end of October, and if there is, we will inform you of the legal obstacles. What is the task of HACOM is to be a moderator and accelerant and a catalyst of this process and every unit of local and regional self-government that comes to us for help we will help it and hopefully come to a satisfactory solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53144	Thank you too, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53145	Dear Mr. Lucic, you have made a lie in your response to my colleague Bull. You're being punished for banning the union. It is not right for you to speak lies here in front of the Croatian Parliament. I'll give you that verdict later. Besides, what Boric says is that we shouldn't be dealing with personal matters here. If the head of an institution has been charged with abuse of office and authority and you have been charged, I think it is a matter of interest to the Croatian Parliament. I would have resigned and not shown up here to defend the report. You already have one report this Croatian Parliament has brought down. So you led HACOM's spending more than income. We have a clean monopoly on the telecommunications market, and we have no liberalisation, we have a clean monopoly. On the other hand, we also have media inscriptions that you have never denied that the rent you pay is the most expensive rental in Croatia. We have expenses on ties in amounts that are incredible, on pilgrimages I don't know where you all went to Dubai. They were throwing around taxpayers' money. Answer me if you're being punished for banning the union and do you have a confirmed indictment by the D.O.R.H.?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53146	Thank you. Mr. Lucic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53147	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoya, monopolization is when there's one. We've got three mobile network operators, we've got a minimum of five mobile communications operators. Let me answer a little bit, and then you'll talk later. We have a few dozen service providers, voice services. We have dozens of infrastructure operators, and if it's called monopolization, then you're right. As far as the rest of your statements are concerned, you're wrong. Listen to what the esteemed Mr. Representative Bulj said. Well, you can see he said it wrong, and let me finish it. And as for my travels as you said last year and so on. Let me just tell you one thing. You have on HACOM's travel pages every HACOM employee writes where he travels, where he was, what he was doing and why he was. A good deal of these trips have been paid by the European Commission, and as far as my travels are concerned, I have never been to Dubai. And not just that. In 2016, I almost didn't travel for a private reason at all, which I'm about to tell you, and my wife was in a high degree of pregnancy, a risky pregnancy, and I was born with a baby so you're wrong. I was the most in Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53148	I see, I see Mr. Bolt. There's only one thing I'd like to say. The tone used by the representative and the tone used by or the representative of the Government or the Agency is different and should be different, because that is also the purpose of Parliament. That's all I wanted to say. And now I give my word to Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53149	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238 insults of MPs. My colleague Lucic didn't answer two questions at all. I don't care what your colleague Bull told you. I asked you nicely if you were prosecuted for banning the union and if you had a confirmed indictment by the D.O.R.H. I think the Croatian MPs in this House deserve you to answer those two questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53150	Thank you very much. What you say to some questions is not answered, but there was no insult or injury to the Rules of Procedure. There was no insult, sir. Mr. Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53151	Thank you very much. So according to the very definition of independent regulators established in the Republic of Croatia and why they report to this High House unfortunately our discussions go in another direction. I would ask one question that I have already asked several times, and that is true of many Croatian citizens who want to enter into a fixed phone contract, an internet network so that they can watch these various TV programs for a certain time. So to them, the provider of such services in Croatia wants it to be a minimum of 6 months which I think Croatia as a tourist country is clean I will use one expression that is not adequate, but I treat it that way because it is a monthly account of 200, 300 kuna clean robbery of people because you have to contract for six months, then for the next six months you can't make a contract and so it happens that you pay them in principle three, four months which you don't use at all. And do you know what it's physically reduced to, like, plugging in the network and the Internet so you can watch TV, like, from Magenta or something? Just to get them to push one button out there somewhere in one of the offices and that's all. Now I think if we're gonna talk about development, if we're gonna talk about everything then I think I want to buy some kind of service that I can buy on that deadline as much as I want, not as much as someone dictates to me. And I think that, as independent regulators, you simply have to pay attention to that, regardless of what someone says because the citizens of Croatia have no one to address. I'm going to buy a favor from someone as much as I want, not that someone's conducting to me that I can for six months, and then when I unbutton for the next six months, I can't tap in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53152	Thank you, Mr. Shuker. Mr. Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53153	Thank you, Mr. Schooker, for your comment. Before there was a situation far worse, 24 months was a mandatory contract, this is an improvement. We do not say that we do not need to improve further we will work on it, we will check legally what we can do and what gives us the existing Electronic Communications Act and we will try to find a solution especially to what you said yourself if it is someone who is weekenders or if it is about tourist apartments to be for three months. What we know is that it's possible that you can log out a six-month device. Yeah, you're right about that. We will check legally what can be done under the existing Law on Electronic Communications and Lawyers, if possible we will change something and we will inform you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53154	Thank you. Would the committee reporter like to take the floor, Mr Pero Cosic? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Nikola Grmoy in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53155	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Based on this report and the government's opinion, we can conclude that it is in itself contradictory. The adoption of the annual report is proposed, and it is pointed to the long-term unsustainability of the current HACOM business method, how to accept something if it is unsustainable. ‘HACOM continued to operate with a lack of revenue over expenditure in 2016 as well. The report states that HAKOM collected funds remaining neutral during the previous years, the surplus financial resources created by HACOM's very responsible operations among other things because the public procurement and implementation of projects spent less money than planned for certain activities." However, it is true that the term of office of the HACOM Council had a lack of revenue each year over expenditure, 2014. 32.5 million kuna, 2015. 33.7 million kuna, 2016. 5.2 million kuna. The disproportionate amount of income and expenditure is the result of Council policy, or the President of the Lučić Council, to reduce revenue with intent to show that it takes little from the market and to equate itself to large operators, representing a direct savings of around 50 million kuna per year. The high cost of rent is the result of bad decisions, and now the president of the Lucic Council in cooperation with his subordinates who were in the commission to select a location for rent and who are now greatly rewarded by that president with leading functions and monthly stimulation defends the lease. The report is filled with a well-informed term of socially responsible regulation justifying the spending of funds from HAK's account on projects that are not in the HACOM area, which clearly prescribes the Law on Electronic Communications and the Statute of HACOM, whether the state regulation can be socially irresponsible. When reading the annual report, it turns out that telecommunications, mail and railways are all the best, and we are in the last place in the EU at the speed of broadband Internet access, and we will not move much longer. The national programme for the development of broadband Internet access in areas where there is insufficient interest in the commercial investment of operators leads exactly HACOM and its department for eu funds led by Ivana Hungarian wife of adviser to President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović. She first heard of a broadband approach a year and a half ago when she came to HACOM where she was also employed at a workplace for which she had no formal requirements under the systemization rule. The responsible management referred to in the HACOM report continues to provide for expenditure in the annual plans, which is significantly above real opportunities, and less consumption than anticipated is presented as a successful business, others are accused of not implementing the projects, and HACOM exclusively attributes successfully implemented projects. This report made by HACOM is completely unreal boasting without any criticism. Realised investments are said to be higher than planned by 80% due to the construction of a branch in Split. The public should know that the 200-square-metre building in Split cost 6.4 million kuna over 4000 euros per square metre, and that the building does not have its control centre function today, because it is not possible to set antennas according to the spatial plan. If someone in a private company had agreed to build 6.4 million kuna and that the building had no function for reasons they were known at the beginning of the contract, they would have been fired long ago. About responsible management and rational public procurement, we had opportunities to read in the media. Let us remind ourselves of the purchase of ties for 86 thousand kuna, the purchase of gifts for employees, the payment of 35 hours of education of as many as 147 thousand kuna, 3100 kuna per hour, remind us of the spendable homesteads of the team building with which the media were disgusted, remind us of exotic trips, reminding us that HAKOM paid a worker’s salary during 2016 which did not come to work at all. HAKOM is an agency whose task is to collect compensation for the state budget and in 2016 they completely failed... are as much as 112 million kunas less than the previous year, justifying this by the pre-departure deals of operators and service providers, not indicating that the shareholders are precisely responsible for the business collapse of the shareholders in HACOM. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With their repressive policies and regulatory decisions directed against small operators, they directly favoured former monopolies and demarcated relevant telecommunications markets. The human relationships I have mentioned and relations with the union are a special story. So I have here, Mr. Lucic lied to the Croatian Parliament, I will now give him the verdicts, here I will show you here, the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb where they are punishable. There is also a response from the county state's attorney's office that the indictment has been confirmed, that the DORH has confirmed the indictment against Mr Lučić, so he lied to the Croatian MPs in response, did not want to answer this, I will deliver this to him here and you can take a look at it with him. So there have been several lawsuits for the shagging and demeaning of workers by the council and management and only for the purpose of protecting personal interests. The director who was to conduct the professional service, according to the workers was in the service of the President of the Council, was elected to office as his assistants who did not have the conditions for those jobs but that is possible in HACOM because, in accordance with the systematisation rule, 7% of the like can be placed on jobs for which they do not have formal conditions. So that's possible only in this agency. So HACOM systematically deals with a part of the worker, brutally violates the rights of workers, bans the high-level staff and replaces them with a similar staff without real reference in the field of HACOM's jurisdiction. In view of the private interests, internal accounts with employees and conflicts between Council members, the expertise of HACOM, which is a public institution and the decision-making of regulatory decisions in the field of electronic communications, mail and railways, has been questioned. HAKOM is prohibited from arguing that employees have a different opinion and professional decision-making is based on one person's dictatorial instructions, which is why the collegiate management of HACOM is questionable as foreseen by the Electronic Communications Act. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53156	We have four replicas. First Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53157	Comrade Grumo, you are now all those replicas and answers from fellow Lucic, who, director, is president of the council, i.e. which he was giving, meaning you denied, simply because you presented the evidence and documents and the solution about, means the solution that, meaning the verdict and we have the state's attorney's solution, means the decision on the power of the charge. I would like to tell you that when we list, let's say you mentioned Split, so it's not a lot of 4000 euros per square, it's very questionable, exotic roads where it went all on spiritual renovations, ties as much as you said funds, working councils and ways of working with people. Incorrect, he stated that in 2016 one person had just released as much as he had previously fired. It means a series of misinformation that I and the public need to know. However, what happens in Croatian society? In Croatian society, they will remember that it is Sanader's fault or that it is Todorovic's fault. None of them are guilty of anything here, as you said in the Croatian Railways, in the post office, in telecommunications, and as you said, we are basically at the bottom of Europe on all these issues and there is no dispute about it, and that is what the public is familiar with. However, they always have their Pedro, it will now be visible in other replicas, and you will see this, they will be called to Sanader, Karamark, I don't know Milanovic, because how who Pharaoh is coming he is guilty and this other applause. They always need Pedro, he was Todoric, he was Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53158	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53159	Dear colleague Bulj, meaning I documented everything, was ugly here by Mr. Lucic, who, before the Croatian Parliament, deceived both us representatives and the Croatian public. The HACOM report has been torn down and the only way out of this situation is definitely the resignation we demand and seek. So especially after what you did today in front of the Croatian Parliament which is unseen and when you talk about this situation in Split and the construction of that branch where we had a price of 4000 euros per square, it is not problematic in itself. The problem is that so much money has been given, and what they've managed to control has not yet functioned because it's impossible to set up antennas. That's problematic. And who will answer for it, and we have countless situations like that. And as for Pedro, here's the gentleman set up by the SDP, and now he's heavily defended by HDZ people, he's fiercely defended by his colleague, Boris, but that's no wonder they're now defending, they're defending both the HNS and SDP's personnel, and they're humane signs with which they're obviously in an interesting coalition where we have a similar situation in telecommunications, a similar situation in energy where they defend this HNS energy octopus but to them on their souls.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53160	Mr. Thunder, yes, I saw, yes. When you reply to the replica of Mr. Bulja, please do not refer to what other MPs have said, and now I will give my word to Mr. Boric for hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53161	So clearly, Article 238 has been confirmed. The Rules of Procedure, because my colleague Grumoja, not this is the first time, he does it every day, so he doesn't run away from inviting any parliamentary representative to involve him in some kind of scheme, some kind of para-intelligence story, and now we should be calming down because if it were normal for them in Metkovic, it's not normal for us on Rab, and we don't. So, a colleague of Grumoja must learn a little courtesy and respect the colleagues he sits with here. In HDZ, we never call people in our replicas or involve them in our stories and debates, and it's not just rude, it's rude of you and you do it every day. And every day you raise these injuries to the Rules of Procedure because you want to finish every debate, you must always be the last. So, that's enough of that stuff. I didn't talk to you today. I didn't lift your line and I don't want to talk about it. If you came here to deal with your colleague Lucic, you're doing it but you won't impose any claims like ours. I said what we're going to discuss, we're going to discuss the report, and you're still doing yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53162	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Boric. Mr. Grumoja, next time you'll get a warning and this I didn't realize whether it was native or party, whether it was yours to calculate and discuss. Now Mr. Sagar is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53163	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear comrade Grmoy, so I will say again, the public interest in the Republic of Croatia must be ahead of all this private interest. That's the whole story. 86.2m euros were allocated by the European Commission to the Republic of Croatia. The total project is 101.4m euros. You know who's not the only one thrilled with this decision? HT. They say the government has decided to go into building a parallel aggregate network instead of immediately starting with a higher investment in the access network to the end-user. They're interested in access networks. I'm talking about the aggregate network, so the main highway information. And that's where the Republic of Croatia needs to build it and it has to be owned because it's a public interest. And the operators will then approach that on equal terms, and you see who opposed that? And VIPnet and Tele2, they say it's all right. What do I blame Hakom? What she said in her report was that they were large investments by operators last year, just this NGA, which means access from the aggregate network. And on 31 May before the European Commission's decision, they also place a report saying that the situation in the Republic of Croatia is good, the European Commission says we have a small number of consumers who pay expensive Internet and slow internet. And what I still resent to the agency on page 18, they say, is also explained by Mr. Lucic. He says, "We have a lot of people in the household, so that's why the average isn't good." And now the young leave, people leave, now they'll be good. Here after this year, there will be a smaller number of people per household, and they will have an average of good internet access to the number of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53164	Thank you. Mr. Grmoya, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53165	Comrade Žagar, you know that I have repeatedly talked about how Croatia must build its aggregate network and that we must resist the pressures that come from HT or Deutsche Telekom and from Germany. I said once that if I had to say a thousand times to Angela Merkel "Danke Deutschland", for all that Germany had done, but we have to, and that's our strategic interest, to build our aggregate network, that highway you're talking about, and I was glad that in one debate the Secretary of State here on my request said that Croatia would go in this direction, I expect it and it's one good direction and no matter how much HT rebelled, it was dissatisfied but it's the only way to bring or how our citizens get a better service, get a faster internet but how to have cheaper prices or ultimately pay it less. I think it's an interest for all of us, regardless of these attempts to show us as some kind of destructive, every positive shift, every good proposal we'll support but we won't let something that's a crime, that something where there's been a confirmed indictment, that something that's absolutely unacceptable means that someone who's headed by an institution that's being punished and broken, that has a confirmed indictment and that someone's asking us to close our eyes, and we won't let that happen. And then to come here and lie to the Croatian Parliament and the entire public. That won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53166	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53167	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Grmoy, I would say that your debate leads to the personal debate between you and Mr. Lucic. As far as I can tell, and I remember the last call when he was, when the same thing was being discussed about HACOM, it was the same personal level. So I'm asking a question. Do you happen to have someone on your team who should sit there and line up? You say criminally, maybe Mr. Lucic was driving fast, so he's being punished. If you know what a criminal court is, then you can't say it's a criminal court. I'm not a lawyer, but I know so much about it. But so many attacks, so many lies, so many false words that have not been confirmed and proven, and here you keep talking about it with some intensity that someone else should sit down maybe from your friends. It's a question of this debate between you and Mr. Lucic because that's how I see it. I don't think it's a HACOM issue, how much it works, it certainly works, we hope that it will certainly work with the reduction of the Internet and everyone else that our people are ultimately struggling, but the interests of foreign companies are true that they charge as much. So, I think how professional you are, and I can say that you're not in that part, I see, you've read what you've read, someone's written it to you and said you're willing to expose it, because it's of interest to our not in the interest of these people sitting here and at such a personal level I've no longer experienced that a man has been attacked as much as Mr. Lucic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53168	A breach of the Rules of Procedure has been sought. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53169	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, very short article 238, I believe that the Croatian Parliament has a bad reputation in the public anyway and I think it should be respected, what I should say is the usual treatment, not that MPs treat each other with it. Well, in that sense, my violation of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Muscle, no one can be here for you and the rule is to address the representatives with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53170	Okay. Thank you very much. This, I'll give the answer, just a little bit, thank you very much. This isn't the rules of procedure, you said, the public heard, and that's where we'll stop. Here you go, Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53171	I wasn't offended by you, but it offended me that Mr. Misic was talking about that I don't know the matter, and he's talking about lowering the Internet. That it should be some kind of our interest, national to lower the Internet. Dear Muscle, we need to increase speeds and lower prices. That should be our interest, not to lower the Internet, fellow Muscle. And as for what I've said, no information, I've given incorrectly. I said why the gentleman was being punished. I didn't say he was criminally punished for driving, but for banning union action and having a confirmed indictment by the D.O.R.H. for abuse of office and authority. It's not harmless, Mr. Muscle. It's not harmless. A confirmed indictment of abuse of position and authority, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53172	Last line, Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53173	Dear counterpart Grumoja, I am actually surprised by the amount of information you have at your disposal and not only in this debate, but generally in every debate, so information appears, here is what you have presented today about the professional preparation of these employees, about applications, investigations, about what events are related to individual individuals. And practically every day something like that happens in your communication. Now the question is, have you hired so hard to get those papers, or are you getting those papers from some sources that the rest of us aren't available to us? There's even a story in the collages, that it might come from a time when you had your Home Secretary, whether it's true or not, I'm not getting into it. But something like that reminds me of the '80s, when I was still very young in such situations and read a report back then was called the DSZ, and then I saw that I had suspected political commitment and suffered some kind of investigation and pretending, and I don't know what I didn't see. Now I'm interested in this part of access to all this information, the way you're taking it out, because practically every day you Mosta are bombing our public, with some data that I'm not personally available to. Did anyone have any kind of professional equipment, whether he was satisfied, whether he was a husband of someone's wife, by the President of the Republic or not? I think here when we discuss, we discuss specific issues, concrete reports on concrete laws. If that's the case, then we're discussing them, not who bought the tie or didn't buy it. I guess now that they exist in this state institution, let them do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53174	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53175	Dear colleague, do you know the difference between those times that you're talking about and these times? I don't come from a position of power, so I'm dealing with someone. I'm a minority here, and I'm talking about the problems of institutions, and I'm talking about some concrete people that might have certain consequences, so I'm not coming from a position of power. I don't come from a position of power, and the information I get, I get because people know that if they give me some information, that I won't be afraid to bring it here, so I'm not afraid of anyone in my life. No one, no one who is now you, to whom you call, I will call them if I have reason to call something, and this is a particular reason, I will do it. And I'm not in a position of power, they're in a position of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53176	I'm glad you're a minority too, not just me. Mr. Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53177	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, distinguished representatives of the ministry and the agency. Well, we heard where this debate went today and again in the unwanted direction and for the sake of the two colleagues' wish to do it every time this agency is here, although on the board it was clear to them all that the instructions are personal and in different ways, but concerns the fact that one club gets confirmed indictments that no one can practically get in the state or see, that this is happening on a continuous basis, often, that we heard that the DORH confirms the charges, I always thought it was the defendant's council, etc. And every time we get a chance to in one good report, there's about 159 pages. reports of the efforts of some people, to show what one of the best agencies in the Republic of Croatia is doing, whose representatives also sit in the bodies of the European agency that are respected with their knowledge, we also see the structure in the report, what that of highly educated people have. There was no easy task of regulating 3 markets, rail, postal and telecommunications, within which there are hundreds and thousands of interests, and on the one hand being satisfied users, and on the other hand we have a job, that we have an economy, that we have investments and that this market continues to develop. We heard we have a monopoly in telecommunications and then you take the report and see how the monopoly works. They act very mildly on everyone, because that's what the monopoly data shows. If we had, for the first time, some revenue growth after three years in the telecommunications section, which fell almost under 11 billion, is now 11 billion and 200 million kuna. But what we're doing inside these customer services of ours. Let's just take a look at the gigabytes. Some 180 million gigabytes more in use than in 2015. For almost a price at the level last year. It's a monopoly. Let's also look at that story about romance, which clearly tells how much the citizens spend, our citizens and how much the foreigners spend. Well, it can't give a monopoly such as that, where you have consumption in a roming somewhere more than 70 million minutes when we talk about pages, for 29 million kunas more than you used to charge. And of our people, we have 40 million minutes more for 10 million kunas less. For 10 million kunas less, compared to what we had. So let's be realistic and admit that we have operators in mobile networks, that we have operators in fixed nets, and that's not a monopoly. Because if it's 3 or 8 monopoly, then the question is, what are we supposed to think about it here? So let's be realistic about what the report says and I think that this debate would go in a better direction. Because the electronic communications market, here last year, 11 billion 258 million kuna revenue or 2.84% higher. Investments of 2.5 billion. Is this a meaningless sector that 2.5 billion invests in the development of its business in relation to users. And now we've heard individual remarks in packages, in access to a network in the telephony, in relations with local self-inflicted. I personally think that this report may not have to cover the number of data we have this wide. That we might be better off if you told us in HACOM what's going on in this area in relation to the users of the agencies, the operators, which are the improvements, which the agency has taken up, that this depends not only on the data, but that it depends on your actual work, based on the law that has given you certain powers. HACOM paid 730 million kuna to the state budget this year, based on the provision of laws and also its own activities, powers, permits. Is this how we can defuse one agency in the sea of other agencies that report to us here under the laws and legal provisions that aren't in that kind of... All amounts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And according to the state budget, according to our own financial plan, which has been slowed down here, since the next 2018 we missed out, HACOM becomes part of the state budget, so we will see HACOM's accounting and whether all those items are exactly the way they are. And what's going to happen to depreciation and how it's going to show. But let's be realistic, because that's what it says, it says in the government's decision that he resents HACOM's reply and that's what the money is doing. I'm personally interested, here's what might be possible for the director to come out later and tell us that in the islands or in the rural area, we can come up with the excess money of 50 million kuna, which you have for the development of a wide-ranging internet in our area. Maybe we're not familiar enough as the leaders of local self-government, so that we can benefit and develop that part that we need. And that might be part of this report, and then it wouldn't just come down to numbers and interpreting them each in its own way. Do we need 30 megabits per second if we want more? HT offers us so much and little more, perhaps some others want and more, competitions, national operational plan, the development of a broadband network are under way, clearly showing what can be financed from this plan, and what should be done by itself by interested bidders who want to build infrastructure tomorrow. Perhaps the question, do we have enough infrastructure built in Croatia, that we should not build a new one. What about the HEP infrastructure, the transmitter... and all the others who built large infrastructure facilities, which pulled the net, to use telemetry, or to manage a certain network, have enough threads, not to drag new ones, or are they simply forgotten? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's our job, to say as a state. If we want to have a lot more pipes inside some roadways, highways, etc. So there are possibilities. It is up to us that we in the Parliament, based on the law given to us by the government, but also by HACOM, we evaluate with our reports. Why do you keep being negative for the effort of the post office? So can we today determine that we are all satisfied with postal services, probably not, day to day. Sometimes he comes before, sometimes he's five days late, and we know it. What happens in this system, where by law as a state we have authorized Croatian mail to be the holder of universal service. Has the universal service met its goal? Did it enable them to do with what the state subsidized them annually, i.e. provides assistance, because they do so, they have sustainable financial opportunities. Croatia's post office with a billion and a half kuna covers nearly 10,000 employees. That's not a lot of money. But it is obvious that our wish, in rural space, where no one wants to carry mail, that there are no operators who want to wear mail in any other space that is a little further than any major city, we gave it to the Croatian post office, N+1, N+2, N+3 days. We had a bit of an extension in 2017. It's kind of obvious. What's the post office supposed to do? It is likely necessary to react in part to those who are the most burdened and these are mailmen, who every day, on that small engine, or in some other way, try to share everything that comes to them and these are not small activities. We had a season that was even stronger than none before. So in this segment, see what the mail needs to be given so that this N+1, 2 and 3 would be respected or they could either look for different ways themselves, but again to claim that we didn't see anything, we can't even say it again. But again, we thank you for your efforts because we can't say that he doesn't exist and this report shows. We have how many shipments that develop through these packages we're now buying through e-commerce. That's where the revenue grew. Obviously, Croatians are buying more and more online shops. And that's something that the post office has to assess whether it's her interest. HP Express, the guarded HP Express is something to do with profit, and whether the system is set right, is going to say management. As for the Croatian Railways, we discussed here yesterday, here all morning, the same thing about Croatian Railways. We can see that there are almost no major shifts in the transport of passenger cargo but it's not the agency's job to do that. It's the work of the Croatian Railways. The Agency controls the regulation within the operator system. Do all operators have access to HH infrastructure? The report says they do. No more famous complaints we had, we used to have a special agency for... The complaints at the time of our colleagues on the other hand, so we lifted it and attached it to this agency because they'd been solving 7 or 8 complaints all year round, and they'd have been left with 2. And in the end, it's just HACOM's business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, 173 workers employed, high and higher professional equipment have 85% workers. Is that an agency we can underestimate given the level of expertise? More than 50% of the employees are under 40 years old, doing 7 doctors of science and 17 masters of science. And then we come to this individual relationship, I don't know the director of the board of directors, and we have a debate that leads, a debate about a single report that is comprehensive, in the wrong direction entirely. Financial business, total income, 77 million. The expenditure including 12 million kuna depreciation, 82 million. We know what depreciation is. And today, in conclusion, you are long-term unsustainable, which is not true, so you become part of the state budget which is true and the relationship between people shouldn't be the basis of this report every time we have a correct report. Because you need to read those numbers, compare them to get some knowledge. And they clearly show that we make a lot of phone calls, that we surf even more, so we like to say no, and we look at these phones every day, and we're constantly on certain or social networks, or we watch certain portals and news like everyone else, but they do that in other countries. And we're no more specific about it. We are not satisfied with the level of development of broadband Internet in part of the immovable networks, there is a need for additional effort and we have a strategy, and we have the funds and it is time for those who are seriously involved in this story and to provide us as citizens with the possibility of having speeds greater than 30 megabits per second, regardless of what the strategy says and by what time, that optics need an option in the greatest case, that we should not run away from it and you as an agency, just to regulate, that we need local self-government assistance and finally solve relations with both historical and other operators in the work of state infrastructure, i.e. The basic infrastructure that's being used, which is what I asked you. So we still have to say no matter how illegal it sounds if we didn't sign the service agreement. Or the right path. And we force citizens to legalise their facilities and their houses so they can use them, pay all the obligations, so I personally think it's the right thing to do, and finally solve it at the level of all of Croatia with all the local self-government for the sake of the operator, not for the sake of local self-government and their income, because that income for these local self-government is certainly not fatal. Whether we're going to get 50 or 60 grand in some community, that's not fateful. But we have problems that arise from the demands that projects or infrastructures take place in an area where local roads are unclassified and that they are being copied and that they continue to be done and that we are not solved, or local self-government. This is a requirement for us to finally get rid of it during this 2018, not because we want it to be bad or critical, but because we think it's a good event for everyone then. That's what we think. And whoever's using that infrastructure, who's selling it as their part of the service, would be fine with legalizing it. And that way, I say, looking at this report, it's really abundant every year, detailing every gigabyte, every second, every minute and every kuna, nothing hides. And every employee and employee. And that's why we say that in HDZ against this kind of debate that goes ad-hominem, to individuals, every time. Let the institutions handle this, and we talk about the report because we think it's good and we'll accept it for 2016, to show a space of 15 million kuna of some revenue, work in 3 segments. And it's the very agencies that have to regulate it, and it's not easy to regulate it. Although it seems to us that, but here, so much of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53178	Thank you. We've got replicas, the first respected representative of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53179	It was moving to watch you defend HACOM's leadership and this report, and it would have been nice if you hadn't, for six months, meant on the 21st, voted like most here in the Croatian Parliament against the report of HACOM in 2015, so I'm interested in you to answer me what changed between 2015 and 2016, or what changed in your head in the last six months. That means, that answer I have here, I can send you, I've got you on the vibero so I'll send you the link of this vote where you voted against, now I've gone to check it out. Also, I'd like you to answer me if my colleague Bulj and I are campaigning against someone, how is it that Minister Butkovic went with the same letter about HAKO and the same things that we put out as problematic why you disagree with your minister of traffic, which is the problem. Or maybe his opinion has changed in the past few months. And as for this whole thing you've been talking about, we have two fixed operators who own all these other smaller ones by me that's not the market, and that's where we've all failed. And on the other hand, when you talk about how we all surf, the truth is we surf but prices are much more expensive and the speeds, if we look at other European countries and as far as the speed of the last one is concerned, Bulgaria is the only one worse than we are. Only Bulgaria is worse than us and these are indicators. So this isn't any personal account, if someone's at the head of the institution and there is, so you caught my lapususe, has a confirmed indictment by the court that DORH brought up, then it's all clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53180	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53181	Thank you very much. What's changed over the past six, seven months? First, the relationship in power changed, so MOST is no longer part of the government. Secondly, as to the DORH's confirmation of the indictment, you saw for yourself that you were both wrong about the pay phone and later on here, so you deliberately did it, on purpose, you're doing it on purpose. Thirdly, as to why HDZ is for this report, because it's comprehensive and I explained what the report is talking about. And you've reduced this report to a personal relationship with some of the leading people at the agency. That's your problem and you've decided it's today's tactics for your work in the Parliament. I've been watching you and my colleague Bull and your forensics come out every day... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53182	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Comrade Boric, just a little please. You had a chance to speak, you had a replica. Please don't throw it out of the bench. ... So do you hear what I'm saying? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So just act like you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53183	He's extremely angry today, he's extremely unhappy because we at HDZ are trying to discuss the report. And all my 15 minutes were about the report. What will the institutions do or what our relationship is between me and the gentleman or anyone else? I've never been to HACOM in my life, in that space, or in that agency. Is that enough? So what I'm supposed to do is I'm going to bring the whole report down to the data that you're throwing out every time, and this is three times that you're doing it, that you're doing it on purpose to pollute this whole debate about a space that's very important and it concerns people's problems that I've been talking about here. I'm going between what you want to discuss and what we think we should choose what we did. And you work still and don't be so nervous today, be nice today, until now, don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53184	Comrade Misic, second replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53185	Thank you, President of the Parliament. You brought out a lot of data here, I don't know 2.5 billion investments that HACOM made, 730 million that they paid towards the state, 173 employees, 85% of highly educated people, according to this report, we see that HAKOM is doing pretty well for the state, and we see the personal levels of something here in the Assembly that relate to certain people and certain ministries, or what it would call certain agencies, someone who fits, someone who doesn't respond, that's another story. But what's important is that in this, 2.5 billion people went into investment, that the state got 730 million, that the institutions of the state should actually check the work of these people. We can't tell them exactly what's going on here in Parliament. But if there is, there is a DORH, they have courts that will check all these under quotes criminal, criminal acts that Grumia often mentions when HAKOM, I can sometimes say, I apologize for what I said "you". And lowering the price of the Internet wasn't about lowering the Internet, it was about lowering the prices, that's what I meant. So, at personal level, I think it should stop in the Parliament that we talk about what it is and how it is and all the other things I think we have institutions in this country that should be dealt with rather than going through any personal attacks on anyone in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53186	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53187	Dear President, you were not here, he warned me that the code, meaning exposure or replica, did not mention any other MPs because I mentioned a fellow Boric who commented on his colleague Bulja, so if this is some sort of criterion that will be used in this assembly, I would like to make sure that you say that this is the attitude so that Mr. Misic too, too, warned who called me here, replicated his colleague Boric if it was some sort of conclusion and style and way of leading the meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53188	You didn't say which article was injured. Well, like this, it would be correct not to mention another MP in the replica, I agree. ... You don't have to apologize, but every chairman has his own style, so there have been some deviations here, but I don't think it's particularly important that I warn someone about it now. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, here's my colleague, Boric. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53189	Thank you very much. We're not talking about names individually, we're going to clubs or parties, I guess we can do that. We can tell our MOST colleagues that they're nervous today, can we? All right, all right. So, fellow Mišić, in your debate, it is evident that the part contained in the report, we barely touched through some of those opening discussions except, of course, a colleague who runs HACOM explained it very exhaustively here for half an hour, but some did not want to understand it because they came with other intentions. Just the fact that we in mobile networks in this year have a consumption of 50 million gigabytes, says that such consumption had total meaning this increase of 50 million gigabytes was spent in 2011, '12, '13. And in '14. together. So we see progress in mobile networks compared to what we once had. And now we come here and listen to completely misinformed certain information from people who probably haven't even read the report. And we have a situation of 2.5 billion operators, not H-com operators in infrastructure and infrastructure improvement, but we have a situation where they're building their activities in the state budget to pay 800 million kuna and we come here and we say it's not good, it's unnecessary, it needs to be destroyed, it needs to be scattered, and we know that they're doing their job under the law that we're making in Parliament here, and we're giving them powers. And recently we discussed the Law on Electronic Communications that gave them certain powers and improved or worsened but we gave them. And now we have a situation that they have to regulate it in relation to the user operator and then listen to what we've been listening to all morning. I don't think that's correct and that we from HDZ have shown that we want to discuss this report every time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53190	Third replica, dear fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53191	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that you have broken down this report very calmly on behalf of the HDZ Club and have tried to say, in principle, in your explanation, in a certain translated way which is the function of independent regulators. And when we in this High House realize that the function of independent regulators is to be the tool of Parliamentarians to control the implementation of certain legal provisions that we bring to this House, then we will look differently at the work that they do and we can agree with them or disagree. The other thing, if we're crying all the time, we're yelling that we should go somewhere, so if the colleagues from HACOM have done certain things there in Tkalčić's one state institution that we all keep praising, nice memo to them go check it out, that report will come back to this High House for discussion and we've solved all the problems. But the biggest problem when each of us takes the right to be a judge, a prosecutor, a lawyer all alive, and then basically we in the Parliament don't discuss what people here have chosen us for. And they chose us here whether those who use the infrastructure made by Croatian citizens because exactly HACOM controls those who use the infrastructure that we all built. Dale, I am interested in whether those who have received this infrastructure offer me as a Croatian citizen the cheapest service and whether they have allowed others to come and do it. And I'm glad you mentioned one very important thing, which is the infrastructure that was done at the time of the former state which unfortunately remained unsolved in certain privatisation processes in the Republic of Croatia. And I don't think I'd like to call you or give you a lecture, but I think you presented today how the reports should be discussed and that such discussions of Croatian citizens will be valuable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53192	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53193	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker. But what surprised me today here in the assembly is that fellow bridgemen are working with the paper on which they say there's a confirmed indictment. How do you get that paper? That's the question. Who's allowed to have that? Is this space that we walk around here and give someone because then the question is, where is the independence of our bodies that are the same regulators in their space and know what they can and can't do? And we have a story about HACOM as a regulator in the space of mail, telecommunications and railways, and we're trying to show that this space is not perfect. We certainly won't find that out here today. But that from year to year, it gets better through experience and that by destroying the monopoly, we can get more services for a lower price and the citizens know it and they know it very quickly if it's in the Telle so much, but in the Vip, there's so much subscription or somewhere in HT, they know what they're going to choose and what they're going to get for that service. But we can't come here then and say in Croatia is a monopoly in the telecommunications system. We have warned of the relationship that is affecting us, because we have the most senior mayor, the mayor who appears to us, the relationship of resolving the legalisation of this infrastructure, and we do not want to force it, nor want to go beyond any laws, but let us decide more to get everyone into the legal part. Because there are some who have solved it, and there are some who are not, and let those operators who have the authority to handle it, and you are the regulator to help. Here's our message today because we think it's the task of all of us to do it in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53194	Thank you. The last Club of Representatives is SDSS and respected counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53195	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We are discussing today a report from an important institution of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for the past year. If we look at the material of the report, we could say that this report is comprehensive, complete, quality-developed to show clearly what HACOM was doing and everything that was happening in HACOM. But I would still like to highlight two things, two problems that arise from this report, one is systemic, and the other is specific about HACOM itself. First, our system of agencies or legal persons with public powers as they are known professionally to be called is completely unsettled. So we don't have a regulated legal system. We set up agencies almost as needed or as someone remembered. We've passed laws, some agencies have been established by government regulations, so we've created a forest agency that today all claim to be independent and have to exist and do its job. In all these agencies, there's no effective control system. That's the problem with HACOM. HAKOM is a very powerful institution, which became even more powerful by joining three years ago with the railway agency. If, by any chance, another regulatory agency were to connect with HAK, they might say that HAKOM is more powerful than the government. Today HAKOM is certainly more powerful than some ministries, and the president of the council is certainly stronger and more powerful than any of the ministers. I'm surveillance of HAK's not prescribed, so it's not prescribed. This year's report to the Croatian Parliament is the only kind of control over the institution. And whether the Croatian Parliament has instruments, so with real instruments of control over HAK. I don't think he's in the mood. The fact is that all agencies, the concept of their independence, understand that the agencies are not responsible for anyone's work. That they have no responsibility to state institutions. Similarly, HAKOM is fully independent, without responsibility to the state administration and the executive authority, but there is also no real control over the control of the spending of financial resources or, for example, the internal arrangement of the agency. What the Agency must have independence must have independence with operators providing services on the market and must have independence with users of those services. As a plastic example of this disorder, I will mention that HAK is not subject to public sector pay regimes. Therefore, the Public Service Payments Act does not apply to HAK, HAKOM is one of the few institutions over which this law does not apply. So HAKOM independently and freely settles his wages, so for example, it happens to us that the president of the council has a higher salary than the Prime Minister. Today, he has a lower salary than a diameter, but he has a higher salary than most ministers. I think it's not good, it's not right, it's absolutely wrong. In addition to the fact that we are passing laws, the regulation of the state administration and the public sector thinks that this legal void should be arranged as well. Because the founder of all these legal entities with public authority is the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia, when establishing an agency such as HAKOM, gives its original authority, therefore, to the public authority of the agency to carry out certain tasks and the agency treats third parties with the authority of the state, because the State has given it. The second anomaly that occurs here is the revenues of this agency. The revenues of this agency are not revenues from the state budget, but are considered to be its... Give it a chance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the State established it, if it received public authority from the State, if it performs certain tasks on behalf of the State, as the sole authority, so it is not competing on the market, but taking place on behalf of the State, then the revenue that that agency is making should also be State revenue. This is what I wanted to point out about some of the systemic things that I will always point to when the reports are from other legal agencies, persons with public authority at the debate in the Croatian Parliament. We've got a chance to work this out. In 2015, the Croatian Government adopted guidelines by the Government in determining agencies, institutions and other legal entities with public authority, where it analysed the status and functioning of all agencies in detail and tabled certain recommendations for this to be addressed. In relation to a concrete report, I would like to say that the committee responsible is also competent enough for the 2015 and 2016 report in its report to state that some members of the board had received some of the statements concerning the work of the trade unions, but that the committee was not competent enough and had no legal information to discuss it in essence, so he did not actually discuss it, while the president of the council pointed out on several occasions that all the judgments so far had been delivered in favour of HACOM and that they were in fact all those things that appeared in the public had been denied. So what's this about? The report of HACOM for 2015 sets out the highlighted satisfaction of employees of working conditions and labour relations rights in HACOM with several exceptions is very high. In 2016, the interests of HACOM employees were represented through working councils, that the co-operation of management and the working council by mutual assessment was excellent and that the satisfaction of employees of working conditions and labour rights in HACOM was very high. Please say... This is one of the reasons why I came forward, is precisely the existence of a powerful verdict by the High Court of Infringement, by which HACOM, the president of the HACOM Council and the director, has been found guilty because they have reached the forbidden supervisory authority over the founding and functioning of the trade unions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's a powerful verdict by the high court of law. The ruling states from all the statements that the working council, which had not existed before the establishment of the union branch, was based on the initiative of the Head of the HACOM precisely to neutralize the work of the trade union. We see here that the report states a good relationship between leadership and the working council. Furthermore, the Agency's personal data protection has adopted a solution which has established that HACOM's personal data on the health of its employee and its child has been processed for illegal purposes and legal basis, i.e. contrary to the Personal Data Protection Act and has made these data available to the media and made them available to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53196	My colleagues and colleagues, please calm down a little bit so that fellow Milosevic can speak in peace of mind what he's up to. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53197	The labour ministry and the pension system have also filed a misdemeanor verdict against the court, and the criminal court has reached a verdict declaring HAKOM a legal person and president of the council guilty and punished them. What else moved me to raise this question? It is a fact that the HACOM Council held on 10 May of this year, decided on the election of Marija Weber, director for the new 4 years. So a person who has been prosecuted for violating the rights of those who should actually be cared for again appointed for a term of four years. Now you tell me if that kind of freedom has a minister? What would happen if a minister in his ministry banned union organization? I believe he wouldn't be a minister tomorrow. In this way, agency managers do not respect the Labour Act, do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and do not respect conventions guaranteeing workers the right to trade union. It's amazing to me that a state-owned institution, a non-profit legal person who manages a huge market, deals with the asphyxiation of workers' freedoms. That doesn't make any sense. So the director was appointed although his duty was to achieve the objectives of the agency and one of the objectives of the agency was the legality of work and here this legality was violated and this person was appointed director. I'm saying, would that be possible in the state administration system? Would that be possible in some ministry? I'm sure he wouldn't. So we can rightly wonder if these persons can continue to enjoy trust in the Croatian Parliament? What I would like to say and remind you that the Croatian Parliament did not adopt and did not even discuss the report of HACOM for 2014 and this is a major failure and this is the only control mechanism for HACOM's work. So, at all, the Croatian Parliament did not discuss the 2014 report. As regards the 2015 report, there were speeches, so it was not adopted, I personally did not vote against this report but for this report they set their thumbs down. And the finish line. There's been a lot of talk about business, I'm just going to point out the fact that the last business year that ended in plus in 2013 and unfortunately we have a situation that one agency that should actually achieve plus in its incomes and expenditures, the last three years achieve a minus. Finally, he would point out that the Union of State and local officials and subsistence on its websites has announced that it has granted recognition to HACOM and the president of the council recognition of zero tolerance towards trade union organisation. In this way, the union warned of such violations of the law and asphyxiation of workers' freedoms. Here, I would like to thank the MPs for not listening to me and to the president of the council the same thing as making fun of the parliamentary representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53198	Okay, we have one replica. Dear colleague Sagar. Here you go. You're giving up. Then we're going to take a break, or we're going to stop this point, and then we're going to go to the vote, and then after that, they're going to keep working. We're having an individual debate with our colleagues, Bulja. So, you got a schedule of debates in the Assembly for the period from 18th to 20th October 2017, one important information. So we start on Wednesday with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Control and Marking of Objects of Noble Metals, and the second item is the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That point will be on the agenda at 11 o'clock. So, if we don't finish this first point by 11, we're going to break up since this report by the government of the Republic of Croatia is related to the arrival of the Prime Minister and will be here at 11 o'clock on Wednesday. We are also continuing to work now, with the Annual Work Report of the Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency for 2016. We have a colleague Bulja and today we are still doing two points, the Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2016 and the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So we continue, instead of individual, that fellow Bull will speak on behalf of the club for five minutes, so I'd like to ask my colleague Bulj. One minute, those who want to leave the assembly so they can continue to work in peace. Okay, please, colleagues, so I will continue my work, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, final colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have a number of outstanding questions left, but it's clear, so we'll repeat the key issues that don't smell like staying in the air once we vote on this report that we know what the parliamentary deputies are voting on. First, who will suffer the consequences of the irresponsibility of the construction of the HACOM branch in Split and spent 6.4 million kunas, over 4 thousand euros per square square, and that buildings do not have their own control centre function today. In the report, you say that the majority of employees who are volunteers of the Homeland War or who come from the defense family do not indicate how much it is, and it is not clear whether you wanted to point out that you and members of the council are volunteers or Croatian defenders. You then state that in 2016 only one worker left, and you do not specify how many workers have left in your term, and I am holding in my hand your document that only two years ago in your term of office 26 workers have gone away and you have never notified this House before. Finally, you say that the co-operation of the working council's leadership is very good, but you don't mention the union, nor the verdict that you and the director of HACOM have received in violation of the verdict that you tried and obtained the forbidden supervision of... the action of the union. That's what your colleague Grumoja gave you when he exhibited on behalf of the club. I will not ask you if you know that this is the first such ruling in the Republic of Croatia which prohibits the work of the unions in a state agency established by the Government and the Croatian Parliament, to hear good fellow MPs, the only agency established by the Government and the Croatian Parliament where union action is prohibited. This is a violation of the Constitution of Article 43 of all democratic multilateral rules and principles that are in democratic society and that is your Pharaohic behaviour. In the report, you say you spent 240 thousand kuna on... services, according to the HACOM Statute, if it brings it with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Yeah, how could you spend that kind of money on over two hundred thousand kunas, and you didn't call for a lawyer's or a lawyer's office, spending your money without respecting the Public Procurement Act. At the end of the day, a colleague and colleagues can see that at the beginning, a non-true representative of HACOM spoke, and I do not think that we as the High House should support this report. The fact is that everything mentioned by hundreds of thousands of kunas spending on ties, on excursions, on spiritual restorations and behaviours mainly towards workers and employees is catastrophic, and we will not even talk about the losses of Nikola Grmoja, but can only mention in 2014. 32.5 million kuna, 2015. 33.7 million kuna, 2016. 5.2 million kuna. Therefore, we must not support this report. We have meaning in this whole debate it is visible that if we support this report that we do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the founder of the Agency's Government or Parliament of the Republic of Croatia and therefore, if we support this, we have thrown under the feet and labour rights and unions and judgments and solutions of the institutions responsible, which also my colleague Nikola Grmoja has presented, which I have mentioned. I urge you once again that we are obliged to respect the Republic of Croatia's Constitution in this respect, and I expect you in front of the Most Club not to support this report and that persons cannot manage the agencies in this manner as managed by HACOM. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53201	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Ante Sanader. Here you go. Well, you go first, we haven't seen you, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53202	Here, my colleague Bulj, I think that whoever wants everything after this debate is clear, we have proved that Mr. Lucic lied to the Croatian public and to the representatives. He claimed that what we say is false, and he was punished for not allowing trade union action. There is also an indictment which has been confirmed by the court, the D.O.R.A.'s indictment against him. I'm asking the question here to my fellow MPs, what would happen if some minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia had a confirmed indictment in court? That man would immediately resign without any initiating recall or anything else. We have one of the key institutions headed by a man with a confirmed indictment and a colleague from HDZ say it's our personal account with this gentleman. No, this is a struggle for principles if someone was confirmed the charge of minimum responsibility of some kind of moral would be to resign. I think we all agree on that. Imagine what would happen to some HDZ minister if his indictment was confirmed, he would have to resign immediately. And here we have the agency, here's a colleague from the SDSS that the gentleman has a higher salary than the minister, obviously it's some sort of important function and he's in that position with a confirmed indictment. And here's my colleague, Boric, defending HACOM today, and about six months ago, he voted against the HACOM report. I don't know where that change came from, it was probably some party directive to change the attitude, and Minister Butkovic himself warned against all these irregularities we had warned about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53203	I ask you to address the replicas 63, the one who spoke before, not the other colleagues. The next replica, the answer, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53204	Well, I would agree that they've changed the opinion of certain clubs, who are attacking us, our colleague Grumo, and the fact is that apparently Mr. Employment, head of the agency, is hiring as you told your wife, wife of President Colinda's advisor and other highly-positioned members and of course he's like him. He does it without talking, while violating labour rights, and that confirms, as you yourself have said, that solution that he has abolished the union, harassed the union and it's confirmed and that's clearly what you've proven with paper. So, documentedly, the fact is that this is not the first time we've talked about this, but for the second time, for the third time, I'm sorry, I said the same thing in 2016, so I think that we as parliamentary representatives, this is not on a personal level, and we need to protect this constitution, above all, that the Republic of Croatia has broken this way. Public procurement has been violated, so many laws have been violated and therefore we have no choice but to support it here. And it's obvious now that he's given up the debate on the recommendation of a colleague who's now out of his mind, and we know who's yelling at him, he's looking me in the eye now, to give up the debate, to argue. Because they need obedients. They only need listeners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53205	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, here's one in a series of negativity, which you here today, not you and your colleagues, were hitting on Mr. Lucic, was that an object was built in Split and that it was something bad. Well, I don't know if we're fighting, to do something in Dalmatia, this is the only agency that has invested something in Dalmatia, made an object, because it was citizens' remarks clearly on it, because people didn't realize that they weren't antennas that broadcast, but that they were reception antennas. It means there's no danger to the environment. And if you've spoken to the people who work at HACOM there, as has this employee who spoke to you and me and everyone with his dissatisfaction. Also, these employees in Split came to me after this first session and wrote about how they had a positive opinion about HACOM and the director, but especially about this facility that was built in Split, which is for every commendation and which should be put into office as soon as possible, because it is an investment in Split, Dalmatia and I think it should be commendable, not negatively put in a negative context. So let's not just hit on HACOM, and last time we talked about HACOM I'm not going to repeat it now, there's said 7 science doctors and 16 science masters and 50 electrical engineering engineers, and that's one of our strongest agencies. So this kind of push and spit on them, they certainly don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53207	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53208	Well, I'm glad your colleague Sanader has changed his mind that in 2015 you voted against this report and I'm glad you've changed, because you need listeners, I'm not against the building in Split, I'm against dysfunction and four. It tells you it's a square meter, it's 4,000 euros. 4,000 euros suits you and I'm not against objects that aren't functional. In fact, there's very little investment down there and you know it. The stairway is not cleaned from above but from above. So there are problems. This is about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and we have a court ruling that their rights have been violated. And it's been confirmed that workers' rights have been violated. So it's counter-constitutional here, so the agency behaves like a Pharaoh's creation within a system that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Assembly founder, the state. It's the only agency we have in front of us. So you vote now, of course you'll vote because he's certainly obedient and he'll do... And there's some kind of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that she was working the same mayor and employee of this HACOM that there was a connection and I know the attacks that went on me, through the portal that they went from the same circles but it was a separate topic that she could open. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we, as Parliamentarians, must respect, means less to take care of PR HACOM and the mayor of the county. We must take care here of the Republic of Croatia Constitution, which has been violated. He banned a man from union action, harassed people, that's visible. It's all visible and don't be nervous and you need obedients. Since my colleague Boris objects to me, of course you need obedients.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53209	Thank you very much. With that I would like to conclude a debate on this point, we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53210	Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2016 The applicant is the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2016 is hereby adopted." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 100 for and 1 abstention, 22 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53211	We will now move to the following point: - Annual Report of the Croatian Foundation for Science for 2014. The applicant is the Croatian Foundation for Science under Article 18. The law of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yes, distinguished academic Dario Vretena, president of the Croatian Science Foundation Management Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53212	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and counsellors, ladies and gentlemen. I thank the opportunity to present briefly on behalf of the Management Board the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science during 2016. The Croatian Foundation for Science as a central institution for funding research projects in 2016 marked 15 years of work. In 2001, the Foundation was founded by a Croatian Assembly with a fundamental purpose for the development and promotion of science and technological development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53213	My colleagues, I understand that science may not be very interested in everyone, but let's give the academic a chance to say what he wants. It is likely that those who interfere will later come to the discussion that many remarks regarding science. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53214	Thank you very much. In 2001, therefore, the Foundation was established by the Croatian Assembly with a fundamental purpose of developing and promoting science and technological development and by amending the 2012 laws and amending the Management Board 2013. The Foundation takes over from the Ministry of Science and Education to conduct competitions for competitive national, scientific and research projects. The work of the Foundation during 2016 included evaluation panels, reviewers, foundation advice, trust boards and administrations organised in 4 departments: Department for Young Researchers, Department for International Programmes and Funds, Department for Scientific Projects and Programmes, and Department for Financial Affairs. The revenue of donations in the amount of 103 million kunas consists of revenue from the state budget for the work of the foundation of 5 million and 200 thousand kunas, revenue from the state budget to finance scientific research projects of 81 million kunas, revenue from the state budget for the programme of PhDs and post-doctorates of the Foundation of 16 million kunas and revenue from the Ministry of Science and Education for the implementation of the second technology development project Unity with the help of knowledge financed from the World Bank's funding of 214 thousand kuna. Total revenues for 2016 amounted to 104 million 898 thousand kuna and total expenditures of 100 million 102 thousand kuna, at the end of the year a surplus of revenue of 4 million 796 thousand kuna was found. Business costs in most parts, i.e. 94.4% by means of funding of scientific projects and payments for PhDs, which is also the basic purpose of the foundation. In 2016 more than 74 million kuna were allocated for projects and 20 million kuna for PhDs. For the period 2016-2016, the The Foundation has published 5 new competitions, research projects, construction of Croatian professional titles, a programme to encourage research and development activities in the field of climate change, research partnership and knowledge unity programme, my first cooperation programme. The criteria for the evaluation of these tenders are prescribed by the Management Board of Foundations, are adapted to each competition in order to maintain the objectives and objectives of the programme and are available on the network pages of the Foundation, together with the publication of competitions, thus increasing transparency of the whole process. General criteria for the evaluation of project proposals are the scientific quality, importance and feasibility of research, excellence of the promoters and research groups. Panels for the evaluation of project proposals declared in the Croatian Foundation for Science contest were founded in 2016 on the basis of a public call addressed to all scientific institutions and universities. They are based on scientific fields, so we have panels for natural sciences, technical sciences, biotechnical sciences, biomedicine and health care, social sciences, and humanistic sciences, and depending on applications to individual competitions, interdisciplinary panels can also be established. The main tasks of the panel are the assessment of the submission of project proposals in the further evaluation process, the identification of recensors and the provision of the implementation of the evaluation procedure in accordance with the manual for the evaluation of project proposals and other general acts of the Foundation. The panel shall analyse all the reviews received and make recommendations for acceptance, i.e. not accepting the implementation proposals. Similarly, the panels ensure the implementation of the evaluation process of candidates' applications for doctoral mentors, the ranking of applications and the provision of recommendations for funding to the Foundation Management Board. They were selected from the ranks of prominent scientists with internationally recognised achievements. 23 evaluation panels totalling 146 members with a mandate of 3 years and with the possibility of a re-election were established. The identity of the panel members is publicly available and published on the foundation's website. So in 2016, The Foundation has published five new competitions. The first programme is Research Projects and the objective of this programme is to create new and improve existing knowledge. Basic and applied research is funded. The programme also encourages strengthening the mentoring capacity of Croatian scientific institutions and is expected to transfer knowledge by including doctoral students and post-doctors in research. A total of 336 project proposals were received in this competition, from which 154 were accepted for funding. The programme of partner research promotes scientific cooperation between public universities and public scientific institutes and extra- budget sources of funding from the country and abroad. So these are private companies, local administration units and self-government, foreign foundations and agencies that finance research by foreign scientific organisations. A total of 8 applications were received in December 2015 and an international historical evaluation was carried out during 2016 and 1 project was accepted for funding. In 2017, the funding of 2 projects started with the research partnership tender launched in 2016. The programme for the construction of Croatian professional title enables the construction of a termological infrastructure that is already available by almost all European countries, especially for Croatian since it has become the official language of the European Community. 20 project proposals were accepted at the tender for the construction of Croatian professional title and 6 were accepted for funding. The funds for the implementation of the programme for the promotion of research and development activities in the area of climate change have been provided by the Environmental Protection Fund, energy efficiency, and implemented by the Croatian Foundation for Science. The objective of this programme is to support research and development activities in the area of mitigation and adaptation to climate change. 37 applications of project proposals were received at the tender, and 10 projects were accepted on the basis of reviews and funding available for funding. In addition to the selection process for the funding of the Foundations, it has also developed the monitoring procedures for funded projects carried out through annual periodic reports. The achievement of the scientific component is valued by independent experts from an area, while the trust services follow the financial side of the project to ensure responsible management of public funds. In a similar way, the Fund monitors the implementation of a programme for the development of young researchers' careers. So far, periodic reports and evaluation results show that the vast majority of scientists are extremely responsible for accessing project work. The work of the foundation during 2016 is shown in the figures next. A total of 402 reports of funded projects involving 430 domestic experts and evaluators have been evaluated. In the process of evaluating new tenders, 3034 international reviewers were contacted. A total of 170 projects have been accepted for funding. The foundation's projects were attended by 3004 scientists. Of which 2760 domestic and 2044 foreign scientists. In 2016, 64 post-doctorands were employed on foundation projects, and we concluded contracts with 157 mentors of new PhDs. A total of 309 PhDs have been funded. The project managers financed by the foundation during 2016 published 1525 publications, organised 67 workshops and conferences, held 1475 exhibitions at scientific conferences, and I would especially like to stress that 6 patents were also reported. The doctorates published a total of 198 publications and held 564 exhibitions at meetings. 18 projects of the Unity Fund have also been evaluated with the help of knowledge, and 27 projects are under way. For projects, more than 74 million kunas have been allocated and nearly 20 million kunas are paid for by the doctorate. The Management Board held 21 sessions during 2016. In total there were 365 thousand views of the network site, so more than 1000 daily, and during 2016 there were 13034 registered users in the electronic project login system. During 2016, the Foundation financed and monitored nearly 5 hundred projects worth more than 3 hundred million kuna. From this, 337 projects are implemented in research projects. 103 projects in the programme of research projects, 2 projects in the partnership and research programme, and 6 projects in the programme of construction of Croatian professional title. At the same time, through the project to develop the career of young researchers, the education of new doctors of science was financed by the gross salary of 330 PhDs, of which 136 were employed in 2016, while the remaining 20 contracts were concluded in early 2017. During 2016, there was also a change in the model of employment of PhDs, which included PhDs based on the previous 2014 tender. Therefore, in October 2016, all mentors concluded additions to the financing contract, and the institutions concluded work contracts with the doctorates, equating their status with the other PhDs in the system. As part of the Unity Fund, nine projects totalling more than 11 million kuna have been funded with the help of knowledge. International cooperation in June 2015 was signed between the Swiss Federal Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Swiss Croatian cooperation programme to reduce economic and social inequalities within the enlarged European Union through which Croatia is provided a gift of 45 million francs, i.e. around 326 million kuna, and for projects to be implemented between 2016 and 20th. Two activities to be carried out by the Croatian Foundation for Science are also foreseen. One will be in co-operation with the Swiss Science Foundation, the tender has just been opened on 9 October and the other in cooperation with the Swiss partner at the political university in Lozana. As in most Member States of the European Union, which finance scientific research through national funds, as well as the allocation of funds for individual programmes depend primarily on State budget funds. Unfortunately, investment in scientific research has continued for several years, and the Fund's Management Board has repeatedly warned that financial resources below critical levels are sufficient for the development of competitive scientific research, and the development of young researchers' careers, which it understands in the long term reduces Croatia's competitiveness in the European Research Area. According to the UNESCO report on science of 2015, Croatia has been one of the few European countries where research and science separations have been steadily diminishing since 2004. The Fund therefore seeks to increase both the share of extra-financial financing and to secure funds from European and other international funds. The Foundation has been actively involved in finding new opportunities to withdraw European Community funds, and will in particular complete its budget through the European Social Fund, which will finance the Programme for the Development of the Careers of Young Researchers and Cooperation Programmes with the Croatian Scientific Diaspora. However, it should be stressed that it is difficult to maintain the quality of internationally competitive scientific projects and the development of young researchers' careers with the financing of over 100 million kunas per year. The lack of budgetary funding cannot be made more significant in making up for the extra-financial resources of the grant of cooperation with the economy and European funds because they are not long-term and cannot have the purpose of maintaining the institutional stability of the national scientific system. Finally, we think it is necessary to encourage a wide range of research and development activities and programmes that would integrate Croatian scientists more into the European Research Area where the best integrated countries are the countries that invest most in funding science at national level. Therefore, Croatia can and must raise the quality of scientific research, ensure that our best scientists conduct their research and develop their careers in Croatia, attract excellent young foreign scientists and ultimately increase the competitiveness of domestic research groups in European scientific programmes and funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53215	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, thank you. I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, will be spoken by the distinguished representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here I will be very shortly since the 2015 report has been recently held, so I will express in this debate my political position and my party's attitude towards the foundation and science, i.e., to say in fact that we support the work of the foundation and that we will accept this report. This 2016 report is different from the year 2015. I was a representative in the Assembly in 2015 and in the draft state budget, MOST of Independent Lists with colleagues from HSLS and with Mrs Gordan Rusak submitted an amendment to increase your funds. Our request was 14 million 850 thousand kuna. In the negotiations we fought hard for 14 million kuna, we managed to fight 7 million 850 kuna. What is specific in this amendment is that you are increasing resources, not taking any other educational and scientific institution but reducing the funding of political parties and I think that has a good message. In your debate, you presented how little the Croatian state invests in science and we are at the bottom of the EU, I think that the Croatian state did not recognise the strategic branch, Croatian science, and this is one message that we as a MOST party wanted to send to Croatian science. Perhaps someone will say that these 8 million kunas are a populist move but I think in these means you have, that 8 million kunas are not little and what is really crucial in that amendment is just being taken by political parties to give to Croatian science. And finally, here is a sentence and symbolic for today, for which it is important to invest in Croatian science, because Croatian science carried out by Summed, Croatian politicians Agrokor, so here's a smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53217	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Academic Wretenar, I would only react to this thesis if the Croatian state had not recognized important science. The fact is that the allocations for science are not the highest in the EU, but it is also the fact that there has been a constant growth for the past few years when the share of GDP is seen. I would also like to add to this data that has already been mentioned in 2017, when the doctorate and post-doctorate programme, the funds were increased by 45% compared to 2016. He would also point out that funding for health activities at institutes and universities this year is a 16% increase of 9 and a half million kuna from 50 to 59 and a half compared to last year so that there really are positive shifts, so I don't think that it should be so easy to make a claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53219	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53220	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you weren't in session in 2015, and you don't know how much of a fight we fought for those 14 million kunas. With your client, specifically. So it's that they didn't want to, so in a way they gave up their funds, party funds for Croatian science. And you're telling me now that the Croatian state didn't recognize science like, thousands of scientists have young people going to Croatia, today Professor Djikic said that we are watching the kickings as Croatian scientists leave, and you now claim that so far the Croatian state has recognised science as a strategic branch. I really can't believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53221	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to add to what you said about identifying strategic importance for science, including education, this cannot go without each other, we saw in the projection budget where the defence budget was increased even three times more than in terms of education and science. So this is the first information that tells us that at this point education and science are not as priority as they were trying to claim in all pre-election promises. Otherwise, we are particularly concerned that we do not know how much the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology is being implemented at this time because the public's attention is focused on the curricula reform which is only one part of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy where there is a whole series of measures relating to science and technology, and whose implementation may be the goal set by 2020, 1.4% of the budget is allocated for science compared to these 0.84 miserable as it is now. Otherwise, for the public who is following us, there are 23 449 people in Croatia who are enrolled in the science register, and according to the definition of scientists from the law, we have 11 481 scientists in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53223	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53224	Dear Mr Jovanovic, I agree that Mr Wrettenar also said that the Croatian state is little investing in science, that the strategic branch generates economic growth. We just read about the success of a young scientist, Mrs. Sanja Golubic, in early detection of Alzheimer's disease. So who knows how many such projects would be and how many such scientific discoveries we have recognized, how many Sumameds that generated economic growth, and I agree that Croatian defence is the strategic interest of the Republic and the Ministry of Defence and all that, but here, science is always at the end, on some margin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53225	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53226	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have a report on the 2016 Science Foundation. The very important issue is already the fact that the agenda was put to the end after Friday's vote, shows in some way the state of Croatian science today. The report is as it is, we could criticise it but basically people who work in this foundation are moving in some of the given gauges, I believe that we might want more, maybe we could do more, but simply, the situation in Croatian science is very bad, the attitude towards scientists is not satisfactory, and then the image of the Science Foundation is, in some ways, devastating. In Croatia science is contrary to these claims we have heard from individual representatives in very poor condition, all numbers, all criteria, all parameters are simply devastating. We are only 0.85% of our GDP, and in Europe as a rule is more than 2%. We are last in the EU by the number of patents, we have five patents per million, the European average of 110, quoted by our scientist is in decline, our universities and universities fail to push even among the first 500, among those who are even worth it. Sometimes a flash happens, sometimes an individual success happens, but it looks like throwing gravel at the surface of the sea, a little something starts up, and right after that, the same picture that we're looking at all the time comes back. It is particularly important to point out that Croatian scientists in many cases produce results on work abroad. What is lacking in Croatian science, we lack first of all, excellence, which, on one hand, is the fault of the state, above all, which creates a legislative framework and sets out budgetary resources and on the other hand, the very scientific community that does not know how to create frameworks for the promotion of the most capable in scientific work where competitiveness is lacking, where continued evaluations are lacking. This is best seen by the fact that for years and decades, a human status quo has been maintained that has no basis in the results that is unimaginable in the developed world. We practically here for 27 years after the collapse of communism, we have a Soviet cookbook where practically many scientific employees actually represent themselves as common bureaucrats. Another criterion by which we see a lack of excellence is that scientists all have the same salary, there is no reward, and then let's say the scientist who works 7 days a week at 14 hours has the same incomes as the other one who comes to work to read eventually on the daily news portal and basically does nothing useful. Many scientists in Croatia, doctors of science, one 30% of them, after a doctoral dissertation essentially, have not published anything noticeable, nothing commendable that is most important, nothing at all. So not even a newspaper article, some kind of necrolog or anything like that. We have a situation in Croatia today, here I can talk from my corner, I come from humanistic sciences, I don't know, people publish some results, talk about some knowledge, they don't even know foreign languages. We, for example. We're listening to some historians, sociologists, politicians who know something about Germany, and they don't know anything about Germany, who know anything about Russia or Serbia, and they've never been in that country in their life, they have no contact. So basically, science comes down to some kind of flatulence evaluation, to politicizing. As far as European funds are concerned, they also very rarely withdraw, and then when they retreat, they retreat to invest in equipment rather than invest in people. And basically you should invest in people because these people when they do something, they create a lasting value even when the results of their work aren't necessarily positive, but that's the principle of trying to make a mistake in science where, in fact, we finally get some results in the long run. It is very important to note when we talk about science and scientists that investments in science if they existed and exist in some other countries give much more in return than investment in infrastructure. So when you invest in infrastructure, you get less profit than when you invest in science and when you invest in people. We of course have a situation that our universities are bad, we have a situation that our institutes are bad, we have a situation that those research centres that may have been able and who were at the world's top like Pliva's Immunological Institute are literally broken down, there's no indication that at least they'd try to get back some old glory. To make things worse, even those institutions and institutes that function often don't have enough resources even for so-called. Cold drive. So it happens that these institutions get funds that aren't even enough to pay for directors sometimes. It means less resources than it would cost electricity, water and heating. And then they have to manage under quotes how to make up for it, how to pay for it, and for science itself, it remains very little. Last year, when it was 450 years on the side of the Siget battle, I cited the data and it is very picturesque that, for example, Hungary has invested 10m euros to mark the Siget battle. So one celebration of the battle in which we could honestly participate, they gave 10 million euros and so much the entire Science Foundation is getting funding from the budget. I know now you're going to tell your colleague that here's the increase I don't know by a few million, by 10%, by 12% that's some big progress, but that's not progress. Progress would be if the resources for science increased by a minimum of 200% and amounted to about 300 to 350 million kuna, it's some minimum that could finally be given to these young educated PhDs that we see being produced but can't work anywhere and that they contribute to their society because they should actually be a locomotive for our society. And no, as we have a case, here I personally know young people, doctors who you won't believe service bikes, service bicycles, set up knauf plates, work, don't know in tourism. So which we are state that we such young, brilliant educated people, polyglots, who have, now I'm going to say more honestly and more knowledge than I do that I have some internship and doctorate, etc., that he has to do some physical work to survive. It's a very, very sad state. And I'm surprised at this, in this struggle that's being fought in the means of science, here's what we've now got a Minister from the HNS who's going to be very advanced and her party, and it can't be fought for 10, 20 million kuna more for science even in the period until 2020 until the government has a mandate. This is a defeating picture of Croatian science, which is a defeating picture of our society in general. It's funny for me to hear that we have, we don't have 10 million kunas for scientists and we don't have 14 billion kuna for fighter hunters. Well, give it to me already if we need those fighter fighters, if we need anti-aircraft defenses, I don't know, then at least we can invest those 14 billion kunas in our own production. Let's just let people know for themselves what it's called to design some kind of project of these weapons, these vehicles, and maybe in the long run we'll save something and maybe make some money. And like this, we're just paying someone on the outside to make money, import and basically we don't have any of it. ... It should therefore be one of the most important things in general in every society, it should be a wheel of development in the economy, it should therefore be the main long-term sustainable development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can say again from my profession, let's say how much in Croatia only would it feel to have historical results embedded in tourism, to connect culture, history, I don't know archaeology with tourism. So look at how much Paris or Vienna cities of history, the cities of culture earn from tourism more than the entire Adriatic coast, earn more, but here we have no, when we find an archaeological site, then we bury it. We bury it because we don't know what to do with it! So I want to call the government on this occasion, I want to call on the ruling majority but also on each representative to make every effort to improve the situation in Croatian science, to improve quality, excellence but also to improve material conditions. I believe that this is one way for Croatia to progress as a whole. I believe it is one way for Croatia to strengthen its identity. So it strengthens national and every other identity through science. Nothing will save us or save us throughout history as so our identity as what, those people, those few individuals who could represent Croatia in the world as an autonomous, indigenous whole and society that ultimately earned its statehood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53227	Thank you. We have three replicas. He's the first to be honored representative of Tomislav Sokola, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Bunjac, I agree with you to a great deal with a lot of things you said. Let's just say, in the principle of a retrieval, if I can speak from a personal example, that might not be appropriate. I, as the best student of the generation at my university, couldn't stay working on it, so I had to go out to a doctorate etc. So, unfortunately, I agree, but that's a wider social problem. This is not, this problem comes not from the government but comes from a decade of such a system from before the 1990s where such people are honored by those who do not wave, who do not ask many questions etc. They've made progress. Unfortunately, even those who are in many universities, institutions today are the same, and they want to do the same. But it's something we have to fight. But what I said and I said and I did and that's what Mr. Sladolev may not have understood. Unfortunately, he's not here. So I'm talking about what we did at the ministry, because I've been a recent assistant minister of science in the first six months of this year just to change some of these things, so one of these things I would point out, but I'm going to do it more in an individual debate is that only this year has been launched, some of them are already agreed as scientific centres of excellence more than a billion and a half kuna of EU funds that have stood up, so it's not just a 10 million kuna increase. Also, what I would point out is that not all EU funds go to infrastructure and equipment only. A tender is approved, for example, for funding from the European Social Fund for 157 new PhDs this year. I know it may not be enough, but it's kind of a start, and I want to point out that it's working on it. And I can also say that when I was in the ministry that I tried to make sure that exactly those competitive projects that stimulate excellence like a foundation programme, such as contractual funding of scientific activities get a financial increase just to target what is best in science. And that's what I was going to say that it's still going in some quality direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53229	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53230	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I appreciate your efforts on science, but unfortunately the current situation is not good. Especially not good is this state that was in 2016 that we are discussing today. Let's say you have a picture of scientific recruits. Sometimes at least those scientific money could get a job. At least five or ten years they've been in some kind of system. Today, there is no more of this, today some professional training is being introduced, where for a church of 2, 3000 kuna, there must be slaved to the state without payment of contributions, without anything. Ask around when you've been to the ministry how many doctors of science are fighting, fighting for not knowing how to work in elementary school, to work anywhere, even where they don't have a profession for a few thousand kunas. And the question really arises why we trained these people, and we trained them relatively expensive when they don't really have any purpose. You have, say, a picture in colleges, at the institutes that allows one single assistant to replace the professor when he retires. And outside, for example, you have 10, 20 assistants at university. Let's say French historian Fernand Brodelli had 20 assistants. And these people, they weren't all head of the cathedral, of course, they weren't all directors of some institutions, but they were useful. And with us, unfortunately, they're useless, they embellish some statistics on the number of dissertations, but in reality they don't fulfill that function as primarily imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53231	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53232	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Bunjac, you were actually talking about the policy attitude towards science. I was at a conference yesterday where Professor Puljak spoke very inspiringly about the fact that scientists themselves will hardly be able to change something because he as a scientist has been trying and failing as a prominent scientist for 20 years. So the task, in fact, is ultimately on politicians and politicians to ensure better conditions for science and scientists, for the entire academic community. I'm already interested in this debate here shows to what extent we at the assembly are interested in helping science. I think these people who are sitting here right now would be easy to deal with, but that's not enough. We need to be a little bit more. It is good that this debate goes right before the new budget is prepared, because that is the only way it will make sense and Mr. Wretenar's report and what we're saying if it feels on the budget. And right now I'm afraid it won't be like that. I will repeat once again that the proposal for economic and fiscal policy guidelines for 2018, 2020 is very significant. It provides for an increase in the MORH budget of 10,6 2018, 4.5 2019, 4.5 2020. This is a total of 18.2% will be greater in 2020 than in 2017. While the education and science portfolio is whole, so for all education and science increases from 1.8 2019, 0.8 2020 and 0.7 2020. So more precisely, education and science will receive 217 million kunas in 2020 than in 2017, and the defence is even three and a half times more, i.e. 774 million kuna. So I have nothing against combat planes, let him get 774 million kuna more. But let's let the same amount get science. And I think it'll show that science is more important to us than fighter planes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53233	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53234	Thank you very much, Reverend Jovanovic. Of course, we mentioned fighter planes and how we should actually invest in our own technologies. And frankly, I don't see any point in those combat planes except that a couple of little citizens are gonna wave flags and think that I don't know what they got with 12 or 16 planes thinking you're representing some kind of force in the modern world is really funny. We can take another example of the illustration. Here two days ago, big-sized local leaders jumped into my debate about local administration. When I mentioned that there are 9,000 councilmen that out of those 9,000 councilmen of them 4,5,000 almost nothing is doing at all, and that for their salaries, 600 million kunas and a billion kunas are allocated for material expenses. So he invests in this local art structure 17 times more than in Croatian science. And now there's no one here to react to it, but when we touched it, so in their name it's syncure and then they were all on their backs and they were saying watch what you're saying, counselor, shame on you, you hate us, etc. So these are the completely wrong system of values currently prevailing in Croatia, and you are right that the political miles for it are the most responsible which is exactly what this debate has shown since a few days ago. They are excited and have something to say only and only if something is taken from their pockets and given for some useful purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53235	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53236	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you said in your debate that, you warned about the lack of excellence, that our universities were bad, that institutions were bad and that because of that, that this should be changed and that it should be, you said twice as much to single out funds for it in science. As far as I'm concerned, there's a lot more than twice as much to be singled out, but the question of what we stand out for and who sets out. When we talk about science this way, then we think about fundamental sciences, fundamental research, and they are only an indirect, or long-term factor in stability and economic development. It is also the research that is applied that has a direct impact. The problem is that our science has no contact with the real sector, because if there were then investments in science from the real sector, the economy would be at least as much as it gives state or far, far greater. And that's the real feedback that's supposed to exist. You're talking about fighter planes and the amounts they give, and you mentioned examples of archaeology or history, and you didn't say why tourism that 10 billion a year participates or has income doesn't participate in the financing of these sciences, that is, there's no place where it could be used. If Hungary has invested 10 million in the anniversary of Siget, then it must have had a lot of repercusion on both the economy and on, therefore it says that another logic of investment in science is needed, and the accusation that our universities or institutes are not good, scientific papers are not excellent enough simply to deny the success of our people abroad and the publication in these magazines.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53237	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53238	Thank you very much, Reverend Tudjman. When you take official statistics, then even when you look at where the Shanghai List or some other evaluations are really saddened to see that Maribor, University of Maribor is better developed and stronger than the University of Zagreb. What capacity is there, what capacity is here. Worse, even the University of Belgrade is better ranked. They certainly don't have the material conditions that we have, so they're better ranked. Croatia allocates 10m euros for science, Slovenia 110m, 11 times more although Slovenians have twice as many as Croats and their territory is almost three times smaller. So these are data that are shocking and that should change. You have well mentioned the link between the real sector and the science that should be this case of investment in the anniversary of the Sigetian battle. I believe those funds have returned to the budget. I believe they went back into the budget and it wasn't spending. I believe that was essentially one investment that ultimately brought income. Surely tourist workers should respect the results of science more. Finally, we see that it is necessary from the technical side, that it simply comes to unsustainable tourism and some islands in some tourist destinations, which I doubt city administrations will be able to solve these problems without the cooperation of experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53239	Thank you. Before we go any further, I am asking you nicely to be aware of this and personally interested in all the problems related to science, please try to keep the topic that we are talking about, which is the Croatian Science Foundation Report. Here we go. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53240	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, academic Wrettenar, colleagues and colleagues. Well, actually, I agree with the Rainer Academy that we should stick to the Foundation's reports, but then maybe it would be good if soon we had really one whole discussion in the Assembly about the implementation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, because hopefully in a full assembly, then we could discuss all the problems that concern the overall verticals of education, science and technology. Then I'll focus on this report. Right at the beginning, I think we all need to commend it both in content, and also in the way it's prepared. This year's foundation marks 16 years of age, and soon it will be adult. What I want to stress is that the changes since 2012. The Foundation has become the central place of financing Croatian science, and this is exactly how scientists decide about science, not politicians, and politicians have the task of ensuring as much money as possible for the foundation and of monitoring whether these money is being spent transparently. What I'd like to extract from this report, I'm going to quote some parts for the public if they follow us. I know we've all got it but it's good to hear what's pointed out in the report that I repeat very well and we as SDP club absolutely support it. It is very interesting to say that, at the very end, academic Vretenar points out that although the best results have been achieved so far in 2016, the best since the Foundation exists, the Croatian Foundation for Science continues to operate in extremely difficult conditions and environments that do not promote culture of excellence, innovation, originality and competitive scientific research. Croatia is under-invested in education and science and Croatia is lagging behind not only in comparison with the most developed countries or the European average but also compared with similar countries in Central and Eastern Europe. What should be pointed out is that the current foundation is funding nearly 600 scientific research projects and 330 PhDs in the Youth Research Career Development Project, the education of new doctors of science. The projects are funded through several programmes, research projects, the programme of establishing research projects, research partnerships, knowledge unity. So if we look at the total figures already highlighted by the academic Vretenar, I will repeat them once again, so 2016. The Foundation valued 402 project proposals, contacted 3034 international reviewers, 170 projects accepted for funding,... scientific work on 449 projects, 321 periodic reports were processed, 14 completed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Valuation of 18 project proposals and follow-up 27 projects of unity with the help of knowledge. It is good that the new 64 post-doctorates are employed within the programme of developing young researchers' careers and 157 new PhDs are approved. A total of 309 PhDs were funded and 162 periodic doctoral reports were processed. What they do in general we see from good results, so as a result of the work on these projects 1525 scientific papers were published, 198 papers were published... and held 564 exhibitions at scientific gatherings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Management Board of the Foundation held 21 sessions, allocated funds amounting to more than 95 million kuna for scientific research work on all these projects. The report shows, once again, that indeed our percentage of 0.84% for science is far from what the Science and Technology Strategy has drawn. I'll repeat, it's set to reach 1.4% by 2020, which will also be much less than the target set by Europe by 3%, but I'm afraid at this rate we're not going to make it to that 1.4%. But here's the budget ahead of us, let's try to surprise ourselves and all our scientists. What I want to quote specifically from the report because I think that academic Wrettenar did not say and it is written, so according to the UNESCO report of 148 countries, Croatia is ranked 137 places by the ability to retain its young and talented scientists and 141 places by the ability to attract talented researchers from abroad. So I think our goal must naturally be to keep our scientists and let them go but also to return but also to attract talented researchers from abroad. And as a result of all of this, the consequences of neglecting the development of the scientific research system are a small fragmented scientific community, a lack of strong centres of excellence, a weak link between research groups, below the average level of quality of researchers, groups and institutions according to international benchmarks of success, a lack of motivation and insufficient preparation for applications to international funding sources, and then, consequently, a relatively small number of international scientific technology projects, and a insufficient start-up and particularly incoming mobility of researchers. So I quote what the report says, this is an assessment of the state of science by the Croatian Science Foundation and I think we can all agree on this conclusion. In the end, I'd say that if I wasn't wrong about whether maybe last year or last year just when we had a discussion about the Science Foundation report, we had one appeal that we got as Parliament and Government and almost nothing had changed. And I will actually quote that appeal and invite you together to be our appeal as Parliament's representatives to the government in preparation for the upcoming budget. So let's turn science and education from losers to winners. Let the Government of the Republic of Croatia really ensure that science and education become the biggest winners of the future budget, as soon as possible, the full reforms of education through curricula reform as well as the implementation of all other objectives of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology, the rapid start of changes in the system of science and higher education on the basis of increased competence, internationalisation and accountability towards the wider society, and once again emphasise the unsustainable implementation of all, the measures and activities foreseen in the Strategy for Education of Science and Technology. And by finishing my debate, I want Academyman Wrettenara and his team to have more money in the future and the greater competition of excellent projects that they're going to spend that money on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53241	Thank you very much. And on your exhibit, we have one replica of the respected Sokola representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53242	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Jovanovic, with a large portion, also agrees, I would only point out two things. First of all, as regards stimulating excellence, i.e. the lack of it, I think one big step back was taken by amending and supplementing the 2013 Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which allows someone to be an eternal docent. It means when it becomes a docent that there is no obligation to advance and that it definitely did not stimulate excellence, it is something that I hope will be corrected in the new versions of the law or as announced in the completely new Act on Scientific Activity that is being prepared. Also regarding applications for competitive and European projects, so Croatia is concerned... Twenty to eleven percent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are here on average in Central European countries. But what is one of the big problems for us is the insufficient level, the insufficient number of applications ourselves, and that is why this year we have developed several, or we have proposed, we hope that this will be adopted in the budget of several application-stimulating programmes. Let's say from funding the program... of excellence related to the European Research Council and also a certain alocation of at least 7 million kuna to support those projects that have passed the first stage of the application, but have ultimately not received funding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're quality projects, but they just couldn't get European funding because of great competence so we can help them and stimulate them to apply. So this way, I also hope that we will all support such efforts and that such initiatives will be even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53243	Thank you. The answer of the honourable representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53244	Well, yes, I think that excellence is crucial and without excellence that will encourage and those who are not so excellent that they are better, there is no more quality development of our university and science, so we really need to once again commend the recently signed 35 contracts where 335 million kunas were awarded if I am not wrong with the grant for 10 Centers of Excellence and that is actually the right way to ensure both the employment of 101 subdoctorands and thus make our academic community more competitive than it is right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53245	The next club of MPs is that of HDZ and on behalf of which the distinguished representative Miroslav Tudjman will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Academy Wrettenar, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the work of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2016. The report, as we know, was accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and most of the votes were accepted by the home Committee on Science, Education and Culture. However, I would also remind only the basics, that the Croatian Foundation was founded in 2000 in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science with the fundamental purpose of development and promotion of science and technological development of the Republic of Croatia and with the ultimate goal of ensuring sustainable socio-economic development with the promotion of employment and leading principles of social inclusion. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science in order to achieve its fundamental purpose, the Foundation provides support for basic applied and developmental scientific research which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. The factographic data for this year, which we are discussing today, allow me to remind again briefly: The Foundation marked the 15th anniversary of its work as a central national body for financing scientific research and the career of young researchers in 2016 and has 24 full-time employees. The Management Board of the Foundation held 21 sessions, established as we heard 23 panels with 146 prominent scientists in these different areas. The core tasks of the panel are an assessment of the project's forwarding to further evaluation, the setting of reviews and the insurance of the evaluation process in accordance with the fund's acts. It is also said that 3340 international reviewers worth 402 projects, i.e. project proposals, have been contacted in this process and 170 projects have been accepted for funding. In this case, a brief remark. Unfortunately, it would be good to know from these 3,000 international projects how many Croatian reviewers have passed these and how many Croatian scientists have reviewed foreign projects in order to simply strengthen our awareness and self-awareness of our own role, our own science, as perceived in the world. Furthermore, it would be good to know how other countries and whether other countries are also sending their reviews to international projects. By the way, we're talking about curricula reform today, so it's reportedly based on data that are now being circulated is being sent to foreign reviewers and programs and classes and Croatian languages and history, which is simply a contradiction that simply can't work. But that's one topic we'll put on for later. There are now a series of projects that are, data that I would not like to repeat and present again. But what I would particularly like to emphasise, or what is to be drawn from this report, is that the largest number of projects reported and finally accepted from universities and some scientific institutions and that there is not really a practice at least in the report is not seen researching ad hoc projects with ad hoc research teams and research centres in an economy that necessarily do not have the status of scientific institutions. What I would really like to warn is the following, before I say right at the beginning that this report, as all predecessors have already said, is very precise, detailed, methodologically consistent, and there are no objections on that side. And the HDZ club will back him up. However, a further policy of funding for science and scientific research is raised in line with the data presented in this report, which is that according to the UNESCO 2015 Report. Croatia is one of the few EU Member States where the percentage of gross national income allocated for research and development fell from 0.84 to 0.81 GDP between 2009 and 2013. Croatia, therefore, is lagging behind in the science separation not only in comparison with developed European countries but also in comparison with similar countries in Central and Eastern Europe. Moreover, this data that European countries today single out 2% of GDP on average, that by 2020, the goal is to single out 3%. Croatia today, Croatia wants to increase the percentage to 1.4 GDP by 2020 only shows that Croatia will again be at the bottom of Europe by the scientific divisions. What is also said is that according to the UNESCO report of 148 countries, Croatia is ranked 137th place, and that according to its ability to retain its young, talented scientists in 141st place, i.e. by its ability to attract. Now let's ask ourselves a question so that we can increase three times our investment for science, will we move this ability to retain scientists in Croatia? If it stays the way it is, we'll just go down there even lower on the ability of young scientists to retain no matter how much we allocate those funds. By the way, I think we should commend on the one hand the use of these EU-separated funds, but I don't think it's a rational policy, long-term policy to stay, rely only on it because it doesn't guarantee institutional stability of the scientific conflict. In other words, European funds cannot and should not be compensated for reduced national allocations. What's here today, which stretches, which is emphasized is that the issue of excellence is crucial for further development of science. And I don't think anyone rational has anything against excellence. However, the question arises whether this is the only criterion that we can accept science, that is, to make science a key factor in economic development. With excellence if you allow me to be misunderstood with danger, if we say that we increase all resources for science three times more, so there will be 1500, but there will be no 4500 published scientific papers in international magazines whether this will have direct consequences for Croatia's economic development. Not directly, in the long run, maybe. But because these scientists are going to go out, which is why we're going to buy these technologies and use them here at home. Therefore, here when we talk about these evaluation criteria, we stress the scientific quality and importance of research which is not disputed, but there is no reference for contributions, at least there is no report, for the contribution of the economy and economic competence. The quality of the applicant and the researcher, the quality criteria for the promoter, the research environment has no criteria for economic, social usefulness and application of the project results. We have a situation that the research partnership programme supports the partnership of public universities and public scientific institutes and beyond the budgetary sources of funding. It is thought of private companies and units of local administrations and self-government etc. But this program, as we have seen from a total of 8 reported projects, is one, only one is proposed for funding. Therefore, this orientation, which is why I don't know and can't get into this, but the very focus on what should be maintained or given a merger with the economic sector, in order to ensure this orientation and desire for economic development, is simply ensured and here it is seen that it doesn't work or does not work to a sufficient extent. That's the bottom line. We can agree with this report, we accept it entirely because of what I've already said. However, my view is personally that the foundation should itself deal with the assessment of these strategies and policies whether a real orientation is primarily to fundamental research can do those effects that we have foreseen in the law, which we expect from this foundation. If I may, I have already said if it increases two, three times why I am investing in science, and there is no investment with the real sector because it is far more a confirmation of the efficiency, efficiency, excellence of scientific works when the real sector comes to you and orders a solution and seeks a solution to the problems with which individual companies, businesses or society are in charge. Not in charge, but in the face of it, that both the values and the criteria get us a whole other dimension and we can look for them elsewhere. And the assumption of that among other things would be to consider whether these panels, this 23 panels should be redesigned in a way that includes people who know needs and areas to be explored. On the other hand, here is just one example at this last meeting that we organized, one of the directors of that meeting said the last hour, I can't, I'm not sure I'm coming because the Prime Minister, it doesn't matter now which one, I tasked him with giving my opinion on a particular problem over the weekend. Whether we came into this situation that the government could ask the trustee or the opinion scientist whether they could be given in a short time, any attitudes that should then be the basis of an analysis of legal proposals and other documents because as far as I know our mentality if it were asked of person A, and not of person B, then it would already be a conflict of interest and I don't know what kind of stories would, you wouldn't all hear about it. However, the purpose and purpose of this should be to promote knowledge, science to become the basis and work of the Croatian Parliament to a far greater extent than it is. We have to admit today objectively that today any representative's opinion has far more space, not more weight, but more space in the public than any academics, scientists or experts in any area. So this whole philosophy, in my opinion, needs to be changed, it needs to be excellent in fundamental research, but we need to put emphasis on developmental and applied research if we want science to become a relevant factor for both economic and social development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53247	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your display. I just ask all my colleagues to stick to the maximum topic, because the topic of science is broad, and all of us, especially those who deal with it, could talk about it for hours and hours. But now the subject is the Croatian Science Foundation Report for the past year. But the first replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53248	Thank you, academic, thank you very much for this observation. However, given that science is not so often in this good, as well as in the parliamentary debate, I think it's not bad that we might get out of the topic a little bit, so that the public gets more insight into what the problems of science are, what science is doing, etc. It's purely my personal opinion. But I just want to say it. So I would refer to Professor Tudjman. As far as this review process is concerned, I think it's important that the whole process be in line with the strategy, that the procedure be followed, means from a special expert committee to beyond, that there are no unilateral actions and some ad hoc bodies. Because that way, there could be chaos in the whole procedure, and it's important that educational reform goes on. Another thing about the ability to detain our scientists. What is this problem if we look at our scientists they often have excellent results in framework programmes and in Horizon 2020 when they register as part of some consortium, they go to work on foreign institutions. It is much harder to get institutional, let our institution actually get some European project and then either bring our scientists out or attract the sides. What I would stress here is a web that is often not listed is the framework programme itself. So the framework program is more of a built teylor made for large institutions with great resources. Large projects are being stimulated, then very difficult can our institutions be participating and competitive there. That is why I think it should be stressed that even in the European institution now that the new F59 framework programme is under way and that smaller projects get a larger amount of funding so that our institutions can participate there. So this is not a question of reducing quality, but of simply allowing smaller projects that even smaller institutions can participate or institutions with smaller resources. And the last thing about EU funds. Yeah, especially with some financial guys, there's a lot of trouble with them. They see funds as filling, funds to fill the budget gap. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] That really shouldn't be the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53249	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed fellow Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53250	If I understand correctly the first remark that the procedure for reviewing the curiculum simply does not work when it comes to the Croatian language, history and social sciences, it simply does not work, i.e. it needs to be reversed. Because this dispute between social and natural sciences isn't made up by us, it's over 150 years old. So I doubt we'll solve it here, too. So here we should take care of other criteria, other reasons not to open that story now. As for the problem of what you have said, the EU is obviously asking for the unification, rounding of these projects and responses and engagements on them. However, we need to see that we have not developed this infrastructure of applied and development institutions, or centres, but you can see that by the number of patents. We have six and I don't know any other countries in tens if not a hundred and some patents bring. Therefore, we should be aware of the lack of that infrastructure and find a way to fill that gap by not jeopardising partnership in these other systems. Therefore, for a small country, it would be far more important to make it possible if we had a small country of five of us far away it would be more important to enable five of us if we had some kind of project so that we could report to this project thanks to our own references, rather than whether we had a physical address or not if we wanted to solve something. On the other hand, to take advantage of the opportunity, it would be good to create a database of scientists where from those who seek a solution, to journalists, to the Parliament and politics could use those experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53251	Thank you. The next replica is respected representative Ante Babic
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53252	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I commend this report of the foundation which is detailed, consistent and clear. Comrade Tudjman, you said that no one has anything against excellence, if that's the only criterion for economic growth, so you said. But when we go with delegations around the world especially in the countries of the European Union or those we can compete with Croatia by the number of inhabitants and its size, then you will see that these people who welcome us in these countries are actually talking about their natural resources, their cultural goods, and also talking about a modern identity, which is the identity of innovation and that identity of creativity and their people. According to one index inside, these are mostly leading countries from Switzerland, Great Britain, Hong Kong, Singapore and actually there is no Croatia. There is no Croatia, but as far as we know there are Croats, Croats who are recognized in the world. So, Croatia as a country is not but the Croats are, so I will also mention Mr. Mihaljevic and Mr. Igor Staglar, Rudan, Soljačić, here is the young pianist Krpan who won the first prize at the prestigious Feruccio Busoni competition, I have not seen, I would like to see it, and maybe Mr. Academyman finally says whether they used funds for their projects. And perhaps even to end the question is our people outside the Republic of Croatia, our diaspora, how much of their innovation and creativity we use through this foundation and its resources. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53253	Thank you. Dear Representative Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What you've been saying is a few processes are happening parallelly. First, the scientific areas as they were 50 or 100 years ago were simply broken down, fragmented into a series of disciplines and interconnections on one side. And on the other hand, this new technology has allowed individuals no longer necessarily large corporations to become carriers of these ideas or realizations, so some kind of Zuckerman can make you. Zuckerberg, right? Excuse me. He can build a corporation worth billions in a few years. The mechanisms for us to recognize and enable, we don't have today. Although one Zuckerberg cannot realise it in Croatia because Croatia does not have such infrastructure. There must be another infrastructure for large countries. But in other ways, in other areas, we can do it. The problem is, we've had too much oscillation and we're not flexible enough. We keep removing possible obstacles rather than looking to allow someone with their authority to stop and say, "I sign this idea, this man with his program has a future and needs support." He's with us, we're doing everything we can to block every initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53255	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Professor Tudjman, I would just briefly refer to that part of your discussion in which you spoke about the ratio or relationship between the number of fundamental and applied and developmental research in Croatia and that we simply must be very, very aware that Croatia is lagging behind in applied and developmental research in relation to the rest of the world and, of course, agree with you. And I'd add another fact that we have to become very aware of. In fact, I have the impression that in Croatia the results of numerous research rarely end somewhere at the bottom of the bottom drawer, that Croatia is not yet reading and not taking into account the results of scientific research, and the purpose of scientific research is particularly applied and developmental improvement of practice. I think we're not even taking into account the results of the research, and I'm afraid that the good part of the research in our science system has turned unfortunately for its own sake. It seems to me that we should take this phenomenon into account, to work to make such a trend change, and of course it is all together and related to the number of research we are carrying out in partnership with the economy. And, of course, by defeating the data, this is reflected in the report that, in the category of partner projects of the reported 8 which is extremely small and too little, therefore, only one is respected which is even less and even scarier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53257	The answer to the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53258	Thank you. This setting that sometimes research or doctoral activities are self-sustaining is often confirmed and is now a question of where to look for reasons for this, the reasons for such an assessment. It seems to me that this is, the answer should be sought precisely in the field of the real sector, real life with science, or to say scientific or intellectual problem-solving. Therefore, it would be normal for us to have, for example, economic chambers with our problems and say, "How am I supposed to handle it and then some doctorate solves the problem of caricing that someone is going to save 20% of the material or time to make some kind of product?" It seems trivial to us, everyone suddenly wants to be either Nikola Tesla or solve world problems. In this way, with such a philosophy where we and these Ph.D.s have done something useful and meaningful, what if someone were to do an analysis of the scientific achievements of a doctorate in any area twenty, forty-sixty years ago, they would have seen that what was done 60 years ago today and children in high school if not already in primary school. Thus, science is developing, and we should not hesitate to solve the day - to - day problems that are being set with us. And there's what I'd like to emphasise or what I'm stressing these discussions need to be combined with developmental and applied research.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53259	And the last replica of Honorable representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53260	Thank you. Professor Tudjman, this is exactly what you were talking about about the importance of a combination of research of fundamental applications but we actually see here one of the tasks of the foundation that may not have been well used and done all this time, which is to raise a little more funds from the economy. So we have one company that recognized the quality of the foundation that has been participating in co-financing for the third year, it's a pharmaceutical company, and we have 50 companies like that to finance just one PhD, that would be a major shift. And I don't think that would be a great burden for more smaller companies that could thus improve the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science and thus achieve this combination of research and direct application in everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53261	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53262	Thank you. I think it's just one of the key problems that we have to solve because, as you know, other countries are investing at least as much in science as it is investing in countries, if not more and it's not forced to do it, but only if there's a real compound or need for that kind of spray. A series of ways that this can be ensured by ordering on the one hand to solve certain problems in order for companies to finance PhDs who would then do what they had agreed to do earlier. I am neither here nor proposing such solutions, but simply to advocate that these models develop because without it I said even if we had invested more in science we would come and not to ensure a combination of the application of these scientific research in the real sector we would simply invest in the primary fundamental research against which I have nothing to understand immediately but with such investments, with excellent people who appear, not all the geniuses are that we understand but would then finance the development of the most developed countries because these people there would find the benefits and opportunities to develop their ideas. So we need to find a balance of one of these fundamental and developmental research, and it seems to me that the Foundation should consider whether there are enough instruments to satisfy both of these branches of science equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53263	Thank you very much. Next, we will go to the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53264	My colleagues and colleagues! What can I say? ‘De for vu all over again’. We have relatively recently discussed in the same composition this same topic here with the same or very similar sentences and conclusions, so I will do the same thing over and over again, mostly what my colleagues said before me, and I will highlight some of the things that I think are particularly significant in this report. So he's great and terrible at the same time. It's great because it covers topics and areas well, and it's systematic, it's reviewed and terrible because it actually reports on the state of science, and I think it's absurd that we impose on each other about whether there are 2 million more or 2 million less, it's obvious that we need a different approach. And what we've all done together so far, I mean, as a country, it's not good, it's not good if we want progress in science, and my opinion is that we almost have no other option. If we want any economic development it must be based on very sophisticated and modern industries very closely related to science in terms of size, location and fact, for example, that tourism is one of our important economic branches and that we depend on it. So everything that pollutes, everything that's antique in this respect doesn't work and counterproductive and kills or cuts the leg we're standing on. The report says, I'll just do it again because I can't help it, so 600 scientific projects, 330 PhDs. Now, programs. This is where colleagues, counterpart Tudjman mentioned it, talked about this particular research partnership programme, therefore cooperation with the economy, the projects of the development of the career of young researchers through research projects, through new projects or as they call them established research projects and this famous research partnership, a partnership with economics. So there's certainly no one who would be against it. Conversely, we are all always for this and it is all true that a lot of money in research in large and strong in this respect countries comes from the economy but looking at real and fair Croatia from which economy. When you go looking for money for research institutions, what did you have for scientific institutions? Ericsson, Nikola Tesla, possibly Podravka, Belupo, Atlantic Agrokor, maybe a couple more firms. Who in Croatia will give money for research applied or any other species? In order to get money from the economy you have to have an economy that has money and which is able to afford that kind of, say, long-term or in the best case medium-term investment in its own development. We simply have very limited possibilities here, all of us from an older generation remember the shipping institute funded and developed shipbuilding among other things, simply not on the agenda. So, partner research and applied research are important, they need to be absolutely developed but in real terms, taking into account the real context in which we are in Croatia with these economies and companies that we have and what we have and who is even able to participate in this kind of research. Unity with the help of knowledge, therefore cooperation with scientists abroad in my opinion Croatian and all others if possible, so as much and as best as possible but the question is how it ends. In most cases, it ends when you have good people to leave, stay at Harvard, and thank God they stay, let them work, let them do the best they can, but there's a problem at the center of excellence and institutions. Of course in science is a personal talent etc. It's an important thing, but it also takes this context where one great person can function. It's a problem of little money and small countries and small scientific communities. 10% in Croatia is in absolute numbers much, much less than 10% even in Poland, 10% of the population in Poland with some higher education, the whole of Croatia is practically and the absolute numbers here have because they are critical, so they have meaning, it doesn't matter what percentage the absolute number is here. The same goes for the percentage of GDP that goes to science. 0.81% or 0.84% depending on which year you look at Croatian GDP is dramatically less than 0.81% of the Swedish GDP, not to say from the German GDP in the total amount of money and science is financed by it, so it does not matter how many residents there are in the country, but it is important how much the total amount of money this science is funded with. So, what seems particularly dramatic to me here in this report, and I will mention this even though colleagues have already mentioned comparative data, so how we, as Croatia stands in relation to others. Only Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia are reducing from new members in Europe, so 11 new members are reducing the last ten years of funding for science. The data many have already quoted as the Croatian plan by 2020 is 1.4 GDP, a European 3%. So 1.4% of GDP, 3% of the European Union. We shouldn't have the same percentage, we should have a higher percentage, because we still have to catch up. And besides, 3% of Croatia's GDP is much less than 3% of the European Union's average GDP again in absolute terms, therefore, in real money. And other dramatic data, therefore, we increase our lagging behind. And secondly, the dramatic data is the one that I think is already quoted by my colleague Jovanovic, and it is also quoted in the Report, which is that Croatia is in 148 places, that in 137 places out of 148 countries are able to retain young talented scientists and 141 places by the ability to attract talented researchers from abroad. That, in my opinion, requires a crisis plan. Either let's leave science or something should be done on this, because no one will convince me among these 148 countries there are really different, various countries of which we consider ourselves to be far more advanced, more enlightened, more developed and whatever you want, note bene, Croatia is somewhere in 40th place by that. And here on one occasion we appear so low-ranked by these two criteria or in these two dimensions that are crucial. And keeping young talented scientists has to do with, of course, being able to get a job first, and secondly, to have conditions. People are much less than experienced with young people, and I guarantee that they have much less important size, or height of pay, and first they have conditions. If they have working conditions, if they have the opportunity to develop further they will stay, if they do not have to go and in some way have a right. Not to mention the ability to attract talented people. We should just make a strategy for it. We have elements, arguments were tried and in some cases worked successfully in the past, so to attract talented people to come and stay here. As we know from direct experiences in the immediate past, we did exactly the opposite. So, we drove away talented people who were here and came, came back from abroad, drove them back abroad exactly the way and conditions did academic Đikić see. Valuation and I think it is important and well emphasized in this report, evaluation, we are an extremely small scientific community as a country. And the evaluation of projects in my opinion makes sense only if it's international. Because there's no one in one profession who won't read the review or read the project and know exactly who wrote it from his discipline. I guarantee it. So, because people just know what anyone does, there are different ways of doing it. So, evaluation only internationally. Of course there are disciplines such as language, history, and such certain things they have and must have because they are specific and must have this domestic component, but they can also be combined with international reviews on the issues of methodology, therefore, purely scientific apparatus used because it is universal not in this sense specific. Content of course is specific. Unfortunately, the situation in science and universities reflects both our political situation and the situation in politics, and how we are here in fact once we fall so in the fall and in these other disciplines where everything in another area, where one tribalism is being blackmailed. Either you're mine, so I'm gonna push you or you're on the other side and you're not gonna be three times Einstein. This adds to the need for external evaluation. And finally, the Foundation is obviously a great project, but it is located at this point in some kind of vacuum and in some mode of hunger. And it really has to be our decision, so I would say here in the Parliament, and I think it's a good idea to possibly have a serious debate about the state of Croatian science. Thank you very much. We'll back it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53265	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53266	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pusic, I agree with you in the part where you said there was one good part of one bad part, you said a great and terrible part. It really is great in the sense that the Foundation works in accordance with the rules and the law and that this part is perfectly correct and that the rest of the report here we all agree. And that part that you have called terrible may indeed be the appropriate word in terms of what we have heard from all previous colleagues who have discussed the allocations of funding for science and in terms of the real sector's connection with scientific research and the realization of them. But it may be appropriate to mention another problem that has been present in the media recently, so, and this is in some way an eclectic example of trivialisation, and you have touched in your debate not only in terms of the minorisation and results of domicile scientists, but also in terms of some other results that I do not now have, unfortunately, but it was recently an example of one of our young scientists who discovered markers for the early phase of Alzheimer's, and we know that this is the fastest growing disease in the world and only after they passed on all relevant foreign media to one part of the Croatian media has conveyed it. So it's really sad and it talks about this worrying phenomenon of trivialization not only of society, not only of the media but of ultimately and of science as a profession, as well as of scientists as an expert. And we know you mentioned it yourself at the end of your exposure that everything is connected, so unfortunately the situation in society is actually related to the situation and in science.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53267	Thank you very much. We'll move on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53268	Thank you, Vice President. Academic Wretenar, Dr. Matakovic, so here's most of the things of the numerical data being said so I won't repeat it now, but I would point out some things in particular. So, as far as the Science Foundation is concerned, it has become as we know the primary channel for national funding of science and scientific projects etc. It is primarily financed from the state budget and it is on the trail of many similar foundations such as FFO, Flemish, etc. And in this way, the state actually determines its scientific policy in some way. The fact is that fundamental research is largely funded and is similar elsewhere. Of course this second segment is needed means applied research and cooperation with the economy, but I don't think it's just a matter of trust. It is also a question of some other instruments, institutions etc. Well, let's say two weeks ago we had a debate about Hamag Bicro. So Hamag Bicro is through... funding from the World Bank's loan to finance exactly projects of cooperation of science and economy, creation of knowledge-based companies, etc. And these programmes are now continuing through funding from the European Regional Development Fund. So it's another segment that should be mentioned here, so it's not just a foundation that can be financed and stimulated by such a thing. Another thing I would point out is that it is currently in the process of making at the Ministry of Economy, but it is a working group involving representatives of the Ministry of Science of State support for research and development. So, there are several models and several measures to stimulate business investment in research and development, among other things, from tax incentives. So I expect that this law should be the draft bill in the process by the end of the year, and we will also be able to talk through these topics, so that we need a whole set of measures to deal with this part of the economy, of course, further. Furthermore, the Fund, as has already been said several times, may be the most important data being funded by nearly 600 scientific research projects and 330 PhDs. So this year what I have already mentioned is the planned funding from the European Social Fund for another 157 young doctorates. What's important is to point out that we have a huge imbalance in our system, so we have a lot more scientific advisors on some institutions than we have scientific associates or a lot more regular professors than docents and doctors. They're very layered reasons for that. So, we had a big inflow of new ones then called the scientific money there in 2006 and 7, and then again between 2012 and 2015 they had a big drought and now we're back in one situation that we have to go into a new human recovery system, it varies so much up and down depending on what option is in power, what is the economic situation, etc. So what's important and what we can say is we're looking inside the Ministry of Science's budget to mean from state resources, that's what we're saying that European funds aren't here to fill the gaps in the budget to secure long-term funding for at least 250 new PhDs a year. I hope that such a proposal will eventually be adopted. That's what the Department of Science suggested inside the ministry. Now, as far as this hunger thing is concerned, I think if you raise your budget by 45% year-on-year to 16. It's not exactly starving. So I think we do know that the situation isn't good, but that's not exactly how it should be handled. So, I'm talking about 2017, compared to 2016, it's not covered by the report, but I'm talking about the state of the ministry's budget and what it's provided for the Foundation in this year and what are the projections and proposals for next year's increase. So in any case, the funds are supposed to grow. Of course, it is difficult for a large ministry that includes a complete educational vertical to fight for. But in any case, I know we're trying, and I know that's what we're working on, and I would point out on that, and that we're talking about the percentage of investment, the percentage of GDP investment in science since 2012, we still have some kind of growth. Is that growth quite thin, but we do. We can't say that as a country in that sense we're going down. Now, he would also touch on what was said about hunting, in general about stimulating the best and stimulating the remains of young scientists in Croatia and strengthening institutions. I couldn't agree more. So we need to strengthen institutions, create domestic consortiums like centres of excellence to stimulate the best way to stay the Speaker is not understood.... Here's what I'd say, if this year, was launched by the Regional Development Fund worth a billion and a half kuna. So it's not exactly a million, two kn, up there. So contracts for 373 million kn, for centres of excellence are signed. So there will be 101 young doctorates, i.e. young scientists, to find a job, and at present the evolution process is under way for a project to invest in organisational reform, through investment in scientific infrastructure weighing 760 million kuna. In addition, we have projects from the European Social Fund, so we have these 157 PhDs of new ones that we mentioned, and the UKF mentioned, is planning to finance from the European Social Fund, so I would really say, yet we have some progress. Also, as regards the sustainability that you mentioned, sustainability is one of the conditions for these EU funds projects, and this is what the European Commission is looking for. Eventually, they had a lot of negative experiences, too, when they invested in some buildings that were being built, and then they didn't know what to do. So part of it means, when... to approve tendering, it is always required to demonstrate long-term sustainability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so with these projects, so in that part, I think we're still doing one step forward. Also, as far as the social humanist area mentioned here is concerned. So, the fact is that in one period we had one, I'm not going to tell the haiku, but one quite a lot of pressure on social humanistic science. For example, we had a rule on the selection of scientific knowledge from 2013 that tried to apply criteria to social humanities, some of which are simply not applicable to them, Spanish databases etc. And that's what the problem was. So I believe and hope that a new legal regulation, which I hope should be adopted by the end of the year, means, a new fundamental law, should clearly set out which criteria are applicable in which scientific areas and which are not. That's what's up to what you said. Croatian language and history are the key to national identity and this is something where the state should, which the state should clearly define as its priority. And finally, as for the tribalism mentioned here, I agree that we have a lot of it, we have situations that prominent professors unique in their profession that practically have no one to replace the losses, so I can't extend my job after 65 years, because of some divisions, which aren't exactly based on scientific, but on some other criteria. So this way I appeal that this atmosphere also calms down a little bit, that we stop sharing in trenches and that we all work together to develop Croatian science and higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53269	Thank you very much. We've also got a report on your replication. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53270	Thank you, colleague Sokol, for what I have to replicate, it concerns your thinking that there will be money in the budget, so it is impossible to do anything for the quality of better science funding, when the 2018 budget of the ministry is expected to grow 1.8%, 2019. 0.8%, a 2020. 0.7%. It's not even enough to settle those costs on the basis of growing internships. So it's absolutely not secure in this projection. I appeal to you as a member of the HDZ and former Head of the Ministry for this to change in the 2018 budget. And secondly, what you would refer to, you were talking about this negative pyramid, which we have in the system of academic communities, where we have the most professors, and at least actually assistants, that is, the docents and to comment on the proposal that came yesterday by respected Professor Djikic, who was the predecessor at the ministry Bareshic literally driven along with Plenkovic from Croatia, which says, generational conflict is the worst thing about our university. People over 65 love their chairs more than themselves and everything around them. They want to be a director, and young people don't have a chance to get a leadership role to show that it can be better. The ministry should therefore prevent over 65 years of age from leading educated and scientific institutions. They can contribute by their knowledge, but not by their leadership. Do you think that would be a good solution for the future of Croatian universities, science and the entire academic community?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53271	The answer to the Honorable Representative Falcone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53272	Thank you very much. So what I can say is, I'm not analyzing the needs of the entire system right now, because we have the whole vertical, so from education to higher education. But I do know that when we proposed changes and increases, we've arbitrationd just the parts of science that concern competence. So these are... the international database, where we had, where there was a hole when it stopped being financed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is contractual financing from scientific activities, so-called The VIF we've already raised with almost 20% this year. These are the funds for the science foundation programmes, etc. So we've been looking for a pretty big increase here, but I'm saying, it's hard first in the ministry itself, which is what it is and with our financiers to fight for something, so we can talk about the whole context. So in this part of science, I think that the increases are possible, solid increases, especially in this part that actually stimulates excellence, plus all of what we've said, as far as EU funds are concerned. I didn't even mention four major projects, i.e. two large, two strategic, together weighs a billion kn, which 2 will also be announced at the end of this year or the beginning of next year and 2 more will go after that. Now, as for the elderly over 65 years of age and the ban on carrying out activities, the first is against your constitution. So you can't discriminate, forbid someone, if they're in a working relationship, run for office and get elected for a function, just because they're 65 years old. There are EU directives on this, so that something like this cannot pass legally. It's just inexhaustible. Another thing you'd point out. I mean in those 2013 changes and additions. The Law on Scientific Activity, these amendments and additions have just enabled someone to extend for 2 years, if they have a sufficient majority in the university council, practically to death. And that was known in whose term. So I mean, problems are much more complex. What I would point out is that many teachers at 65 are still in top power, can contribute greatly to the system and should not generalise people and automatically shut down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53273	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sokol, you were talking about the dry and dry periods related to the PhDs. At the time of Zoran Milanovic's government, the decision was made, and scientific recruits stopped funding. I then asked the question of what is the future of these two and a half thousand doctors who have mostly ended up? Then, among other things, it was written that it was a guilty policy because it was destroying the financial system of the Republic of Croatia. In other words, we left those doctors on the street or sent them out. In order not to go back to those stories, here's the urgency that 250 if I'm not mistaken, said the new doctorates are funding each year. And now, there should be a projection in advance where they can be found, or where they can be engaged. Among other things, if it is not possible to find them according to their qualifications and conditions, the quality of the place in scientific and university institutions, then the state should at least provide that when calling its seats, that is, the need in the state administration, should give priority to such people. I also asked this government to do so, and I'm not sure what kind of answer I got, or if I got it at all, and therefore, such a solution is not yet on the way, but, as you said, we need a complete solution, so at the very least, the Foundation should propose it with its projections.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53275	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53276	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you on this initiative we discussed it a few months ago in the ministry I remember and we, as the Science Administration, launched such an initiative and we should continue to work on it to encourage it in this area. But I fully agree with you, we've already sent some memos and suggestions as a science director. Just one more thing I would mention that was mentioned earlier, I don't think I like to talk about individual examples, but as far as Mr. Djikić was concerned, he was not in a working relationship in Croatia and we can't say that someone expelled him, so I don't think there's any point in talking like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53277	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Academyman Wrettenar, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say first of all that here, given that he's looking forward to me first of all and he's giving me optimism with regard to not such a long-standing debate on the 2015 report if nothing else is going on then, we're not sitting till late in the night, and if we're discussing anything else in the day, when we're a little more focused, of course, on Fridays after the vote when there's little of us in the assembly, but still, compared to last time, there's something more of us, so here's the optimism. Of course, I would like to commend the report that is here in general, a reflection of the transparency above all the work of the Foundation, and then to carry out its legal task as a central body which primarily provides financial support for scientific research projects. A lot has been said so far, I would like to return only very briefly to the problem of connecting science with the economic sector as a truly divergence generator, in view of the situation that we have in the economy, I think it is an issue that needs to be further underlined and given more attention. As I have already said in one of the replicas, the fact is that Croatia lags behind this kind of research for the rest of the world and, of course, this is all linked to applied and developmental research, therefore, by their ratio when it comes to Croatian science, noting that it is particularly difficult to withdraw a sharp line in recent times between basic and applied or developmental research in certain disciplines. However, there are certain criteria that determine the dominant characteristics of basic and applied research. What I'm interested in, and I haven't really found that information, I may be wrong, but here I haven't found them, so here I am looking at you, Academyman Vretenar, whether there are any data in Croatia at all about the ratio of fundamental and applied research, therefore, the ratio of the number currently in Croatia. Namely, why I ask this, the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, if I am not mistaken in April 2015 adopted a strategic document, so, Croatian Academy, therefore, a strategic plan of the Science Foundation in the period 2014 to 2018 and, among other things, a problem highlighted in the analysis of the state of Croatian science is indeed a lack of investment from the business sector in science. And based on one such analysis, one of the key strategic objectives in the strategic plan is to connect scientists from public institutes and universities with researchers in the field of therefore, the economic sector and in general in the area of the economy. And as indicators of the success of the implementation of this objective are listed several, therefore, in that document I will only read some. Therefore, in addition to the regular annual publication of competitions with pre-known deadlines and prescribed conditions, the number of projects agreed in cooperation between public health institutions and partners in the economic public or private sector is greater than 10 per year, i.e. 50 by 2018. So, if we count this period of fourteenth, eighteenth, or the number of projects the foundation has so far funded in the partner programme, and I'm sorry, an explanation of the number of projects that have until then, so until the adoption of this document in the framework of the Partnership Programme that we were about to discuss and someone mentioned 23/7 of the competition. At least that's how it stands in this document. One of the key indicators is the amount of extra budget funds invested in scientific research as a result of cooperation with the economic sector of 5 million kuna per year. Then a very important indicator of the number of doctoral dissertations in collaboration with partners from the public, private or economic sector that should be more than 30 per year. A very important indicator, the number of dissertations directly implemented in the economy, the number of patents and other types of intellectual property derived from the programme of cooperation between scientists and the economy. Well, then, the number of newly formed laboratories, competence centers. I would also place here centres of excellence etc., the number of doctors of science employees a very important indicator in the economy after, therefore, doctorate and scientific and technological parks. And quite an important indicator of the number of start up companies, companies derived from the cooperation programme of scientists and economies. So these are some indicators that the Croatian Science Foundation itself has prescribed and set to monitor efficiency. As this strategic period is, we still have a year. So, I'd like to see in the following, so in the next year's report here's a more detailed picture of how much we've achieved, so in tracking these indicators and how successful we are with the note and I really agree with someone who is, I think it was either an individual debate on behalf of clubs, so I emphasized that we really are here when it comes to partnership with the economy we really are going round. Because it seems to me that it's one of those more bewitched circles. The situation in the economy is what it is, money doesn't exist in the economy, money doesn't exist in science, and what someone mentioned about large companies like let's not mention Agrokor again, but here are some companies from that rank are pretty much in the ever smaller possibility of separation for science. I would just point out here that there is no need to leave out with the minds of small and medium-sized enterprises that we have in Croatia around 90% which therefore provide the possibility of developing smaller applied research and cooperation with the economy. About two, three weeks ago, I attended one of those projects. It is a joint project in partnership between the Faculty of Food and Technology in Zagreb and PIP d.o.o. where the result of an applied research was an innovative product in the field of beekeeping, beekeeping and beekeeping products, an interesting example, hence one of the interesting cooperations which resulted in concrete, therefore in-innovated product which was then, of course, greatly benefited both the company and the researchers who participated in the project, etc. So it seems to me that here's the space, just kind of seems like we all have to work together first of all on a state of consciousness. Because somehow, there seem to be barriers on both sides. So on the one hand, the scientific community says the money in the economy is gone, so they can't spill from economy to science. On the other hand, the economy says it's just as determined by money, and science is asking us to invest. Which we have from it, etc. etc. Here I think we should work together on the awareness that the focus and essence of this whole story is actually the transfer of knowledge, the transfer of knowledge that should benefit our economies. Here and I'll conclude that, here's a wish that in the report of the Academyman Wrettenar here for the next one, so 2017 for this year that will come very soon I hope on the agenda we have detailed details of what I've listed. Of course, and I want the academy to be a successful follow-up, God's Academy, a trust fund, a successful continuation of work in this and then in the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53279	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused one replica of the esteemed Mira Totgergelia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53280	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bedekovic, I'm kind of more of a replicator. Offered by your replica to Mr. Tudjman when you said that often doctors are their own purpose. Somehow I would disagree with that notion that the doctorates are their own purpose, but I am fully aware of what you wanted to say. Later, you explained it a little bit through your discussion. It may be that doctorates are better, better quality for people who are in the universities themselves when writing a project that the doctorate will deal with or who are in the doctorate. But on the other hand, throughout history, the same often times the doctors who were formed at some time only later came to life in an economy or in some applied branch of our life. Is there often a question as to what is an older chicken or egg? So also here, whether the economy needs to invest more in science or science should contribute to a faster development of the economy. I think it's even irrelevant what's before, what's later or what's supposed to be the point rather than somehow trends. If we have a trend that the economy does not respect science, then it does not define the development of science, then on the other hand we have that science is not so applied in the economy. Perhaps it is your finding that consciousness needs to develop differently, that it needs to be more connected and that science should then be a driver of the economy and the economy that would be more developed then had more opportunities to invest in science itself. So, just what happened is just that notion that doctors are their own purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53281	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53282	Well, my dear colleague, I agree with you that you disagree with me if I may say so. So, I said that it happens that doctorates themselves are a purpose infrequently, I didn't say often, I said rarely. The difference is between those two categories. So, look depending on where in which area, the field is doing a doctoral dissertation, what is the topic, how much is it, so it's not the same to do dissertation in the field of natural, social, humanistic sciences, so that depends on their applicability in practice. So, some dissertations, therefore, each dissertation has a scientific character and the aim is to produce new scientific results precisely for the purpose of proving its ability to do scientific and research work after doctoral dissertation, after defence dissertation and on the author himself whether after defence dissertation he will remain where he is and remain in that dissertation and there he will stop or develop his career further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53283	Thank you very much. We are going back to the previous point because I need to conclude the debate, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53285	The annual report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2016 is the applicant of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2016 is hereby adopted." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 120 for, 2 abstentions, the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53286	And now we will move to the second, last point - Proposal for a law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, first reading, P.Z. No. 115. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure. The debate on this legislative proposal will be conducted under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? I guess so. Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I appeal first before the presentation itself to avoid this practice in the future and to put the vote at some normal time to have a consistent debate and not that after 12 hours the MPs run away if people work until 4 then we can, or by 5, some normal working time, I think that voting can be in 4 and that will be my proposal, here I can now say for future work and president of the Parliament. As far as the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the proposal which the SDP had made and which is already here in the second session in the debate, the previous meeting was so short that it simply did not arrive on the agenda but the intensity and the bill proposal is identical and the reason is very simple. So we're assessing and I don't think that this should be overly referred to the topic that the current Act on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce does not satisfy the needs of the economy, businesses, entrepreneurs for several reasons. So one reason is that the existing law has been in force since 1991 and hasn't changed. Now a man would assume number one or the law is really so good and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is doing a very good job so we don't need to change it, or two we put aside as something that is meant and as a para-state institution that spends corporate money and from which excessive benefits entrepreneurs don't have, and now they can by who knows which time the SDP Representatives Club thinks that the money that the Chamber of Commerce collects from our entrepreneurs regardless of what someone will say that the smallest entrepreneurs are paying membership fee of forty kuna per month, it doesn't matter. It's important that they pay the kuna too much for what they get and don't get almost nothing. And I'm not saying that because it's something that might not be worth investing in so that the economy has a complete institution that helps, but after 27 years, I guess we absorbed it as a topic of whether it has some benefit in this way or does not benefit from it and I think our entrepreneurs have a very clear answer and those who have been following it for years, and those who founded the company yesterday say that this kind of organization and the work of the Chamber of Commerce is practically no use. Unfortunately, we had a situation with the 2013 chamber that we remember and all Mr. Vidosevic, who has been misusing on the indictment that DORH has filed. So, according to their claims, the money that entrepreneurs collected in all sorts of things, I'm not going to elaborate too much now, but we've all witnessed these unkind scenes. Afterwards, a new leadership came, the new President of the Chamber, who unfortunately began in the worst possible way, meant a appointment without having had the conditions to become president of the Chamber of Commerce but the chamber as it is now at the moment, because under the patronage of a political party of the HDZ and they did not care whether the President of the Chamber met the conditions laid down and which were thus defined by certain acts, but the competent authority there interpreted that man had conditions and that the story had been closed and came as a politician in a chamber with experience at work in a food company after being an assistant minister in the Ministry of Agriculture, means the same sector where he later found a job as director, worked with that job and completed colleges in Banja Luka and... And even now, the man here is still studying, or maybe he's now doctored in Osijek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I want to tell you how much this is essentially a place that doesn't understand how it should be understood and that's where the most respected people who know how to organize a job, who have a relevant experience behind them, and who would know how to use that potential that the chamber has. No, by contrast, we got a man who was president of the Council in Vinkovci, the HDZ president of the City Council who fantasized about it, or the president of the HDZ in Vinkovci who fantasized about ending up in the Parliament but here it came to a close so that Vidosevic was arrested, there opened up the place and then ended up in a party arrangement as president of the Chamber of Commerce and there it has been for four years now. He promised dramatic changes, nothing, that is, three years or almost four years, nothing has changed significantly in the perception of Croatian entrepreneurs and businessmen in those four years. And that's another reason why we suggest a model like this that you have in front of you right now. In order to demystify the way of the organisation mandatory or optional membership, I must say, here is this tax code that, for example, such a model as we propose exists in most countries, a large majority of European Union countries, so I can now list Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Poland, Slovakia. So most European Union countries have a model that has been proposed here in law since 1991, which has been in force enough to tell you both over time and analysis done in the first year, which tells you enough both over time and analysis done as effective or whether it should be changed. Now, somebody's gonna ask here, and why didn't you change when you could? It is one of my biggest to say the grief of the mandate, where we have had a conflict great with the HNS about it, I insisted on change, the law was, but the HNS in its style blocked it for certain reasons and eventually the Assistant Minister of Economy ended up as one of the officials of the Chamber of Commerce after the term of office of Ivan Vrdoljak. So I can only say that the HNS in its style, as it does today, had already worked at that time and, in fact, because of its petty interest, blocked the adoption of the law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which I then proposed as the minister of the large majority of companies paying for this chamber contribution. The basic issues that we want to settle with this law are the introduction of meanings like I said of a voluntary membership that everyone can choose whether they want to use services or not and pay membership fees accordingly and have an obligation to the Chamber of Commerce. The second definition is the work of the Chamber of Commerce, the bodies of the chambers, their composition means the choice of jurisdiction and responsibility. I say in 26 years, a lot has changed and the Chamber needs to be reorganized. Prescribing the administrative oversight of the work of the chamber body by the Ministry of Economy which I think is necessary given the situation we had in 2013 when, and now, it functions as a separate body, state in the state, that whole system then led to Mr. Vidosevic, so I don't think I can tell exactly what he was doing, but the court will determine, the prosecutors have already taken a lot of shots. And now we can only believe that the situation is more transparent, but there's no external surveillance here. And people from the Chamber have been satisfied that they've cut some income from membership fees, that they've reduced the number of people. Otherwise, there were 500 people in the Chamber for years. I would just like to compare a Slovenian chamber that exists with less than 100 people, and the country is not five times smaller than Croatia. But thank God we had to have every time we didn't spend our own money on a situation where we had as many people as we didn't need. Now some people have been reduced, severances have been distributed during that period in 2014 but it was done by me not enough, there are still far more people there than is necessary. The Commora commitment also to produce once a year delivers reports about its work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This would also be something that is normal and regulation of the obligation to set up a special organisational unit to monitor the work of regional chambers, and to define the source of financing of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in such a way as to prescribe that the funds necessary for the work of the Chamber are provided from the means of carrying out their own activity, membership, income from assets, revenues from market activities, and other exceptional revenues. We also think that some of the relevant surveys and research we've conducted have shown that if we were to leave the possibility of voluntary membership to keep around 20% of the members or members in the Chamber, as regards the company with a combination of public powers that the Chamber has. And they are prescribed by certain laws with a combination of large assets that the Chamber has and with other incomes that it can achieve we have in order to form a purely efficient Chamber that may not have 500 employees but would function in those gauges that our economy needs, and even have the opportunity to interest in selling and providing services with its activist and enabling people, i.e. it interests members who are potential to join and thus have more income than it has so far. On that side, we think, and we don't think any drama would happen as far as the Chamber itself is concerned, so that it doesn't go out, that it doesn't disappear. Maybe I'm saying, you wouldn't have 500, maybe you'd have 150 employees or 200. But on that side, you could still do a great majority of the jobs you're doing right now, and I'm convinced that our economy wouldn't suffer any harm, that our entrepreneurs wouldn't have any harm but the opposite. It would probably make them work harder to be members and members of the Chamber, and eventually by their engagement, by their efforts, show their activities that there is, that all of this makes sense and that people come to them voluntarily. I ask you to support this law for a number of reasons in your thoughts and discussions. So number one, I said 26 years of constant not changing, requires a change of law and improvement. On the other hand, to move away from having the Chamber of Commerce as a party exposure to HDZ, this would be the most in the interest of HDZ, which is thus perceived among entrepreneurs and the Chamber itself so perceptive among entrepreneurs, although it is quite often the Presidents of the Chamber and Vidosevic, and also now Burilović, here and there salty and with other parties only so that it turns out that it is not, but in fact it is quite the case, but it is bad that any party is present there and that it simply creates a smaller functional organisation that would benefit the Croatian economy. I think that's necessary. I don't think you should say how good a message it would be for entrepreneurs. I said 95, six percent of entrepreneurs support this kind of change. 15 to 20% would remain in the membership and if it changed this way, so I think we should listen here and listen to the desire of entrepreneurs, and not to turn it into one party branch that we have an unsuspected parliamentary representative Burilovic for the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or the unsuspected mayor of Ranogajc on the other side of HDZ Krapina-Zagorje County. It's a terrible message to our entrepreneurs, because it's really our entrepreneurs, the craftsmen experience it that way. THAT SOMEONE has usurped it in the 1990s, and since then, he's been holding an ear over that organization just won't let it go. And no matter what the reference is, it doesn't matter who your opponent is, who wants to show up. It is important in this particular situation with Mr Burilovic that the pusher was given him by the then influential, and also today the influential HDZ from that part of Slavonia who said here's to be Burilovic. He didn't have any references there to find, and he only found himself because the party let's call it that. But literally the party. Here's what I want to say in this HDZ case. Oh, no? By that mentality, a party man must be placed. I hope that you will allow it to change and that such things never happen in Croatia again and that we will succeed in doing what I think is to the benefit of our entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53288	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras, I need you, since you've begun to correct it. So, it's usually voted at 12:00 and nobody's ever asked why it was voted at 12:00. Therefore, today was voted at 1200 hours. And I'm a little weird, and I have to admit, and even unfortunately, what it is, this is a proposal from the SDP Club, and it's just you from the whole club, unfortunately. But good, that's how it is. But we have one replica of your exposure. Dear Representative Darko Horvat, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53289	Thank you, Vice President. So here, looking at these twenty minutes of intro exposure, I thought at some point there wouldn't be any need for any replicas. But then aware of the fact that Organic counterpart Maras does not suffer the Croatian Democratic Community can't take away the impression that he doesn't even suffer the chamber system organically. Why is his potential story so tied up with legally elected presidents and crafts and Chambers of Commerce probably only he knows it. But several times so far, he has associated with voters who have given him support and those who have chosen him, so he transparently accounts for them. Well, not for a colleague of Maras, not for SDPs, but for voters who gave Maras a very transparent vote. So from his party president, then, counterpart Maras, as minister, was assigned to push for the president of the Kushtrak Sea. And now the dispute that was Vice President of Agrokora is on the move. And fellow Maras, this all together, this farce and story about Agrokor with your primarily private, then the party side falls into the water just by the fact that you've already celebrated and opened champagne by declaring your colleague Kustrak as the new president of the chamber, not waiting for the will and decision of the parliamentarians who chose fellow Burilovic at the end of the second round. Disdaining the heads of institutions doesn't talk as much about them as it does about you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53290	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53291	Thank you very much. This is where Mr Horvat lies by his usual self, or does not tell the truth, and I must say so very rarely use such a word, but now I use it because my position around the chamber has been known from the beginning. What would be the point of me pushing someone, and I want the chamber to be voluntarily organized? Well, I'm not Mr. Horvat like you in HDZ, but I've seen it as my lazy so I can put whoever I want there. All the time from the very beginning, I want the chamber to be voluntarily organized. I didn't have my men there. I couldn't arrange a vote there. I'm not, but I'm just as well informed as the HDZ has agreed with Ferdelia that anyone will pass on to each other. Well, you made it a political circus. And why should I praise this Burilovich now? Tell me. A week ago, a month before that, the man gave an interview that he wanted to join the Parliament and then Culjak came to him and said you'd be the president of the chamber. What does he have to do with it, and what did he have to do with it? The assistant minister of agriculture has arrived at the sugar shop. I wonder if, as Minister, the Assistant Minister of Agriculture has been doing anything about sugarcanes, etc. And after that, he became the president of the chamber. So look, what does that have to do with me? So you made a political circus and a political stage, and now you're accusing me of pushing someone, I didn't realize by whose order? The president of my sister's party, then you're absolutely uninformed, totally uninformed, because unlike you, I fought with these people and then about the chamber system, which now, with your hand under your hand, is in the government of the Republic of Croatia, it's about Vrdoljak and Ferenčak. Those are your pals more than mine, probably even then, when we were together in the coalition. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you fellow Mars.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53292	Thank you, colleague Maras, I ask everyone to stick to the subject. The theme is the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the SDP Representatives Club. Not individuals, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53293	I'm sorry, just to make one more thing right, no party in Croatia is organically tolerated, so what my colleague Horvat said, I think that's the duty to say, means all parliamentary parties in the Republic of Croatia I respect but [[You can't talk like that.]] I don't respect the political violence that HDZ does in the Chamber of Commerce, I don't respect it. [[I didn't give you my word, I warn you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53294	Comrade Maras, I warn you for the second time, by taking away the words, you can't do that, even if there are a few people and at least you're talking, you can't in the name of a party that no member here is, you can't behave like that. You know very well that you must get the word. Ask for a word and get a word. Yes, of course. Did I get up without the chairman's permission to yell at another member? I warned you once, you disobeyed. Excuse me. Next, now we're going to debate on behalf of the MPs' club... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53295	Well, in the breach of Article 238, the First Honored Vice President, I am withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you have acted exactly the way you should have, because this kind of self-will has not been seen in this House of Commons for a long time, and I can say congratulations on this reaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53296	It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, at least in that context. We're going to a debate. On behalf of the Mosta Independent Lists, the first one will be spoken by distinguished MP Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53297	Thank you very much, Vice President. Unfortunately, here I just have to find out on behalf of the club that of one idea, actually wanting to help entrepreneurs, where we recognize, the number... chamber membership fees, that the system should be corrected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether completely radical or appropriate. That's, there's a lot of them. We've come to a shootout here, I don't see anyone fighting for entrepreneurs, but fighting names, whether they're members of one party or another. I think it's safe for them to gather as many of us as there are now, we're no longer up to the situation that we can talk about, because neither is anyone listening to us first. We have a legislator who can't communicate and I don't actually see how this is going to continue. I can only regret to say, that the very representative of the promoter in the four years of office, unfortunately, has not taken what he is now communicating here, which he proposes, has not simply put on the agenda, nor has his government, the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, where I was minister, we had within our programme, and there has been communication and I will say what progress has been made more in those few months, where we have reached agreement that, here's the first step down, membership for newly established businesses, because now they don't have to pay for the first year. Unfortunately, also, if your club that represents this law hadn't raised its hand to bring it down, we'd probably achieve some, uh, better quality goal, so we could all stand around it together. Now I'm trying, for real, to be on this side or that side. I'm just saying, basically, you've made two mistakes. Every time or once you didn't have political strength within your government, twice because you couldn't wait for another government to move towards it. I think on this, in fact, this whole bill, I don't see anything wrong with it. But all I can see is that it's bad communication, that it's a bad atmosphere, and we have 90 members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, because this is the first reading, I'm going to suggest that the Parliament's Committee on Economy, Discuss with these people there, because I think it's okay for them to take their views too, because they also bring in the amount of fees for membership fees to be paid, take care of the Chamber of Commerce, to carry out a quality conversation with and with them. And I hope then we can all discuss it better here together. This now, of course, that Friday afternoon, as any day late in the evening, is certainly not a good time to discuss some important law, nor to discuss it, so I believe that the whole programme, in fact, national reforms implemented by this government should make significant moves compared to what has been done so far. Your initiative, regardless of any intention, will end in failure, because there's also the Vice President of the Parliament said, unfortunately from the SDP Club, you're not here now you're all alone. And at the time you were actually the only one who represented it, I didn't hear anyone else, so the HNS was also at the time when you suggested, they were very restrained about supporting it. Therefore, I expect that on the first reading on behalf of our club we should see the full composition of the SDP and see who will support your initiative together so that we can all see if it's just one political maneuver or if it's a real desire to change something. If we're going to have a situation here that a couple of proposing deputies come and raise a hand for it then that means neither your party is behind it nor wants it to really change. This is because here we are and in what we had in mind as a bridge where you've raised, now I have no one else to speak unfortunately, where you've raised your hand for destruction despite what we've been doing in the program and what you've now represented, I consider here a provocation towards us. You're hunting someone else's laurels so they can have a certain political point now. Of course, I don't justify any action by an economic chamber that isn't effective enough, and I think that at this particular perhaps one thematic level, perhaps with one greater cooperation to achieve, the interests of bringing together the economies in that part of which is the Chamber of Commerce and then making one joint decision here. The Croatian Government has clearly indicated in its reform programme, whether it wants to reduce parafiscal or not tax to parafiscal imposition. untaxed donations this year for 300 million kuna. Unfortunately, the part of the programme will definitely be lagging behind because the increase in renewable fees alone will lead to a significant increase. Therefore, the dreams of the economy being disbursed again remain. Neither on this side of the pay phone looking to the left nor the right side has done enough to make it clear that our businessmen can have a picture of them burdening them in future times. I'm leaving exactly my own consideration for probably next Friday when it's going to be a vote to see how strong the initiative is and to see how until the second reading, we're all going to take a very expensive stand and agree what's best for the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53298	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the next club, I would just like to make it very clear that, apart from my fellow Maras as proposing representatives, both Davor Bernardić and Siniša Hajdas Dončić, and Michael Zmajlović and Damir Mateljan, and each of them can continue, of course, could continue to represent the SDP's Club proposal, but unfortunately there is no one here. The next club is the HDZ Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Kliman will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53299	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! Here is a very unusual situation after this unloved scene with colleague Maras, so nothing unusual about his behaviour in the Croatian Parliament, what we haven't seen every time and I don't think we've seen in the Croatian Parliament for a long time that there isn't even a promoter on this wheel today. And now it's a little unusual to talk about that law when you can't talk to someone who suggested that law. It's unfortunate that this entire left-hand side of the Assembly is absolutely empty, so we have to realize that we can simply interpret it so that simply this law does not have the support of the party that supports it, a very strange situation. I have to tell you, I'm not sure I should be discussing this at all when they're not even here to support that law of theirs. But we have to do what we have to do. I'll be very brief given this unusual situation. I must say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support this bill for very notorious reasons, here I will shorten as much as I can. You heard for yourself what Mr. Maras was saying on behalf of the promoter and very often the word "maybe", "I don't know", so it's going to be 500, it might be 300, it might be 20%, it might be 15%, etc. When writing a law that will have consequences for the economic system of the Republic of Croatia, it must be exact. So, economics, mathematics, physics and these things, these are very exact figures, they have to be clear, the goals have to be clear. The consequences of the introduction of such a law must be clear. However, it seems to me that this is exactly how one law I would say politically that has one purpose and that is to treat some complexes from a time when Mr. Maras could not first pass that law when he was ruling. Here, that seems to be the only motive. He hasn't changed. If it had changed in some important element since it was proposed, then 2014 seems to me for the first time to date, if it had changed in some articles, I would say that it is really following some trend in the Croatian economy and that it can read the signs of time, however it is not. It's the way it is, and it seems to me that this is one political law that we can't support and I'm not sure that I would go on, I don't have the right to tell you, and I don't want to explain this all together because of this situation. But I will say only a few things not to promote the Croatian Chamber of Commerce but some simple facts should be said, which is that, with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Chamber of Commerce is dominantly sucreating the economic policy of the Republic. So there's a lot of delegations, so it represents abroad, now it's in a position to deal with the Foreign Ministry and seven other foreign representations, it has 15 public powers. There are several services entrepreneurs of the exporter, tenders of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, voucher,... Mobile teams, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] New initiatives are therefore participation in... professional education, digital chamber as part of the national e-Croatian strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the membership fees are in 3 categories. Small companies 42 kuna per month, therefore 97% of them are members of that category, the medium-sized company is 1083 kuna per month is 2% and the large company 3973 kuna of which 1%. We must note what counterpart Panenic said that we, too, in the past government, have taken measures to reduce membership fees in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and have abolished membership fees for the first year of establishment. It went through your ministry. Contributions have been abolished since 2014. Both revenues and membership fees since 2010 have been reduced by approximately 94 million kuna, which is not small. Today, it is being collected with the basis of the membership fee of 135 million kuna compared to 260. Business in the last three years has been such that the number of workers has been reduced, as well as fellow Maras, from 630 to 498. Of these, 29 workers are engaged in 2 projects co-financed by the European Union. Real estates not used for basic purposes have been sold or rented. The team's cost has been reduced by 61% to 2 million 640 thousand kuna. So it's not a team that ate and drank. So, the team is a kind of promotion of Croatian tourism at fairs. We all know what that means. That doesn't cost much. So there was a lot of activity from the position of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. 479 fairs and actions involving 10,000, nearly 11,000 participants were organised, and most importantly, multimillion export transactions were concluded at these fairs. I will only say that the military industry of the Republic of Croatia is fully leaning on the placement of its products in military fairs organised by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I'll say, here's an example of working on fairs and travels organised by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Gredelj signed a $100 million contract in Iran. In Russia, climate equipment and Proklima agreed business co-operation with Croatian investors on the realisation of projects for the construction of a large business centre. Kedobet signed a joint investment agreement to build a plant for the production of additives, so the planned annual value of production is estimated at around 10m euros. On the basis of a 5-year contract in 2015, Sardina exported 3 million kunas, 3 million cans of heart, trials, tuna and fish pâtés worth 2 million euros. The miller signed an agreement at the start of the 10m-euro export of bakery products. A sweet contract that expects an increase in cosmetic exports worth more than 10m euros, etc. So the activities of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce are surely alive. They bring results and I think you can definitely do better than that no one slows it down. That is why it is working, that is why it is trying and I think that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has its right to exist and to retain this chamber membership system or compulsory membership. I only hope that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce will still find the inner strength to work even better and to contribute to the development of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia even better. I repeat once again that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53300	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters still want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does he want to... Governments further explain their opinion? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, I don't. Then I'll conclude the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I'll see you again Wednesday as the President of the Parliament announced with the same point and at 11.00 with the report. Thank you. The session was suspended at 15.43 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-13-0.u53301	Proposal for a law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, first reading, P.Z. No. 115., the applicant is the SDP Representatives Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is not accepted." I find that most of the vote is 79 for, 2 abstentions and 41 against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
