ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25308	I am looking for a break from the Honorable Chairman on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club because of the current crisis of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25309	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25310	Thank you, Mr. President. Regarding the request for your resolution, most MPs in the Croatian Parliament are looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25311	Representative Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25312	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS-HSU club is seeking a break from the current political situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25313	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for ten minutes on the topic of current status in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25315	Representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25316	Thank you, Mr. President. And the SDP Representatives' Club is looking for a break for the above reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25317	Thank you. If there are no other interested parties, I'm setting a ten-minute break. Thank you. It's 10.05. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:15 A.M.]] Five clubs called for a break. The first club of MPs to report for a break is the Living Wall's Club of Representatives. Agent Ivan Pernar will speak on their behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25319	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Today we witness again the situation we had before the previous parliamentary elections that were extraordinary, the quorum today was not. According to all the authorities combined by HDZ and MOST is not a stable government and changes they have made over the past half of the year and such authorities have essentially brought nothing for our citizens. So it hasn't changed anything. I warned like my colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, a fellow MOST that supporting HDZ will not solve problems in our country, that HDZ is not a party that will bring a better and happier future to our country. Unfortunately, despite HDZ's false promises that it would give thousands of euros to each child, that it would stop the execution of the only real estate, etc., MOST still supported HDZ and continued to support them at a key point called real estate tax. What they're going to say is that MOST took part in the creation of an active HDZ policy. Now, when it is clear that the HDZ fight, or war that they are fighting, is not only directed against our citizens but also against themselves, now that Mr. Petrov understands the seriousness of my words that I have instructed him not to have false hopes that HDZ and his head will not want to take off, only now the MOST has awakened from sleep. Unfortunately, it's a little late, but it's better than ever. Unfortunately, this government, HDZ no longer has a future and no one will want to coalition with it anymore, it has no majority and it has to leave. I call on the Prime Minister to resign because 76 votes are gone. He often came here in the manner of Eve Sanader, buttoning up and unbuttoning his buttons every time he stood up and sat back in his seat. He had an impressive performance, he referred to great words, but it was all just one bluff, a bluff in play, insecure, irresponsibleness, and chaos he produced himself. The vote for HDZ is a voice for chaos. HDZ is a voice for corruption, the vote for HDZ is a voice for the continuation of the policy we have been witnessing for the past 25 years. I call on our citizens to show responsibility in the upcoming elections, parliamentarys, extraordinarys that will be held and not to support that organisation. I remember if I called HDZ a mob organization, from this place Bozo Petrov would know how to take my word and say don't say it like that, you can't talk like that, today he's using identical solutions to describe the situation in HDZ, or what kind of organisation it is. Dear citizens, we from the Living Wall will be held accountable in this parliamentary crisis, which means we will not support both this government and the government. We will be with you, and we ask you to be with us in the struggles that will follow. Do not vote for those options supported by HDZ, names: Milan Bandic 365, which holds the majority just to protect himself from criminal proceedings and other parties that will support this and such a radical government. Dear citizens, our country is at a turning point. It is you who will decide whether the country will continue through instability and chaos, or whether the elections will continue to be every little in combination with HDZ and MOST, or whether you will choose serious people who are not circusers, who stand behind their words, who today, today and tomorrow speak the same messages, which cannot be bought, who will not change their minds. Please stand up for the election against this circus that HDZ and SDP have been organizing for the past half of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25320	The HDZ advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will be spoken by Agent Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25321	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. As we are familiar with the representatives and the general public with the Croatian Democratic Community club as the holder of the motion to resolve the duties of the President of the Assembly, Mr. Bozo Petrov, together with a number of other clubs, i.e. a total of 79 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, who make up half the total number of MPs submitted a request on Friday for the resolution of the President of the Parliament. In this way, Mr Bozo Petrov, as president of the Croatian Parliament, does not need political or democratic legitimacy to continue to chair the session of the parliament. According to a number of constitutional and legal experts, as well as us in the Croatian Democratic Community club, one of the oldest rules of parliamentary practice is that when Parliament Speaker Mr. Bozo Petrov loses that political and democratic legitimacy in this case, which is precisely because the absolute majority of the 79 MPs of the 151 MPs in the Croatian Parliament signed a request for his resolution, then he is obliged, in accordance with this oldest parliamentary rule and practice as the previous issue, to resolve that point and put his trust here in the Croatian Parliament. Since we have not yet established an addition to the agenda, I suggest Mr. President that after this break, given that the circumstances and conditions for voting on the completion of the agenda have been met, that you put your decision on trust today as the first item of the agenda, so the President of the Croatian Parliament's trust. Unless you intend to do so because you have already stated this during the weekend, that it will not be a first point, which was the only proper democratic action and respect and the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, if you have no intention of discussing it today as a previous issue and the first point of your trust, then I suggest that on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, immediately after these breaks, the session of the Croatian Parliament Presidency will be convened to define the conduct of the Parliament, the work of the Parliament in the next four days. It is a minimum of what we must do so that the parliamentary representatives can work normally and know when a point will be discussed and when the points will be voted on. I would also like to make it clear on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club so that there is no doubt about whether the Croatian Democratic Community club wants to discuss the issue of trust with the Minister of Science, Zdravko Maric, who has submitted a motion for his recall to the SDP club on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, ask that tomorrow the Croatian Parliament discuss the issue of confidence with Minister Zdravko Maric, so that it will remove any doubts that the Croatian Democratic Community club would, after the resolution of the President of the Parliament, and after one of the parliamentary majority vice-presidents from the election of the new president, take the lead of the Parliament in order to avoid the debate on the recalling of Ministers of Finance Dr. Zdravko Marić. So that's what I'm going to conclude. On the basis of the request submitted for the impeachment of the President of the Parliament signed by 79 MPs of the Croatian Parliament, Mr President, the only correct and democratic action would be to schedule today's vote on your impeachment, or your resolution. The second thing, if you do not want to or do not intend to do so, which would be very different from one practice, parliamentary practice because you have lost the trust of your deputies, then I ask that immediately after these breaks, the Bureau's session be convened, the Parliament continues to work, and the Bureau is withdrawn and that the way in these circumstances is defined, which are still remarkable. So, this is not a normal situation, to demand the impeachment of President-in-Office, and in these circumstances it is difficult to continue the work before it is defined and determined that you can no longer chair the Parliament. In that sense, I'd like you to tell us if you're going to put a vote on your recall today or if you don't do it immediately convene a session of the Bureau so that we can define the further work of the Parliament. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25322	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25323	.../Intruder Bačić: Excuse me, Mr. President, we need to complete the agenda so that we can continue our work according to the scheduled agenda./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25324	HNS's club, HSU, called for a break. In their name will be spoken representative Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25325	Thank you very much, President, colleagues and colleagues. It is good to say a few words on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pensions Party. We call on today's partners in the government and HDZ and MOST as well as all other political parties to calm their passions and normalise their behaviour in political space. The collapse of this coalition is not the end of the world of people! We find you equally responsible for this situation. One partner is obviously coming out of the coalition. The second partner should clearly show the majority if that doesn't happen, unfortunately we'll go to which one is already in turn, the 3rd snap elections with full responsibility equal to both partners, but it's not the end of the world. Each of us must make sure that we are primarily elected as representatives of the peoples and citizens of Croatia. When you try to pollute political opponents, with a completely inappropriate vocabulary and behavior, you disgust the entire political space, but also those citizens who have chosen the others in this Croatian Parliament. It is not and cannot be normal for political debates to use concepts, mafia organisations, a group of dangerous people, protectors of crime, we announce war, inviting people to the street, that people are not normal, that Croatian citizens don't deserve it. And you think that's gonna get you votes? You won't. You're just going to deepen citizens' mistrust in institutions, but it's absolutely no use to anyone. And keep the level of politics, Croatian institutions, Croatian states and ultimately Croatian citizens who chose us in this House. Why the fear of a positive competition, the fear of replacing political enmity with political competition, of competing in ideas and results, not of alarming or accusing others with truths, lies, "fake news" or whatever. Do you really think that citizens today know which of the parties presented here thinks and which offers solutions to the implementation of the curricula reform, for the lifelong education of citizens, for new jobs, for young people, for the cheaper and efficient state, for the 100,000 unemployed, for the 300 thousand blocked citizens, for health-burdened debt that counts in billions of kunas, for INA, for Agrokor, for the country's energy stability? Do you think that really citizens can understand which of us has what attitude and which policy 0 of these key themes of their lives? They don't know. Unfortunately, they don't know. And we don't lie, they don't know because it's not being discussed in this House, they don't know because they're discussing who's going to accuse their political competitors in a uglier and more inappropriate way. Well, we choose to be different from that policy today. I also challenge you to compete as a political competition, not as a political enemy with ideas, solutions, results, and not with divisions, insults and lies. And I'll explain in two sentences today's situation, it's clear that once again the state is destabilized, that one partner is leaving the government, the other one has to show most of it, if most of it doesn't fit, we're going to go back to elections that aren't cheap. And if we simplify in that sentence the essence of today's situation, and we don't panic others, we call on the streets, we insult ourselves with groups of dangerous people or with mob organizations, so we will try to return at least a little of the dignity to institutions and politics in Croatia. Try to do a favor for the Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25326	The MOST advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will speak Agent Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25327	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. Uncertainties and gaps in the provisions of the Croatian Constitution have been particularly manifested in recent days as regards the resolution of ministers who have failed to resign and the role of Prime Minister, President of the Parliament and the Croatian Parliament in the process. In addition, a question of deadlines for the appointment of new ministers has been asked by most MPs to make a decision on the resolution of the president of the Croatian Parliament, but no new speaker is proposed at the same time. Unfortunately, the Croatian public should be clearly told that all that is happening is part of a very dangerous and thoughtful scenario of unconstitutional usurpation of the powers of the Croatian Parliament and violation of the fundamental principles of the division of the government and of the Croatian parliamentary democracy. A few days ago, the following scenario, as reportedly imagined in the HDZ, was presented in one newspaper, to replace Parliament President Bozo Petrov, not to elect a new speaker of parliament, but Vice-President Jandrokovic continues to manage parliament without a time limit, not to elect new ministers, but to be governed by state secretaries. The parliament does not meet until after the local elections, Prime Minister Plenkovic does not have a parliamentary majority, but at the same time has all the power in the state. In such a situation if the scenario were to come true, one professor believes Prime Minister Plenkovic would not be the first minister but a usurper. The fact is that the scenario has already begun to be realized by Prime Minister Plenkovic's decision to resolve ministers in the government alone without any role of the Croatian Parliament or its president in the process. Although some media have tried to convince the Croatian public that the Prime Minister has acted in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and that it is confirmed by most constitutional experts, it is not true. The fact is that most of the constitutional experts and law professors who have made themselves public believe that the Prime Minister has violated his constitutional powers and can be easily checked. We believe that the Prime Minister is obliged to propose as soon as possible, and certainly within a reasonable period of time to vote on confidence in the new ministers in order to confirm the existence of the parliamentary majority and the government fully enjoyed the Croatian Parliament's trust as prescribed by the Constitution. Given the situation, we consider it an appropriate and reasonable deadline for the Prime Minister to propose to the Croatian Parliament seven days from the day of the resolution of earlier ministers. This is especially given that the Croatian Parliament is still sitting this week and is then scheduled to pause due to local elections. Since 79 signatures of parliamentarians for the resolution of the president of parliament have been collected, we believe it is enough 7 days to form a parliamentary majority that will give confidence to the new ministers. Any difficulty in this process means that the parliamentary majority does not exist, that there will be pressure on individual MPs to be part of the majority that is already happening, that is to say that it will be extended into an unconstitutional situation that exists in 4 ministries where there is no minister responsible for the Croatian Parliament. In order to enable such an unconstitutional scenario, it is necessary to replace Croatian Parliament President Bozo Petrov as he is currently in institutional terms the only defense to the full usurpation of power by the Prime Minister. Since the current Constitutional Crisis does not wish to be demonstrated either by the President of the Republic or by the Constitutional Court. We find it unacceptable to interpret the Rules of Procedure that one party that has 3 vice-presidents and does not have a majority of MPs alone decide which one of its vice-presidents will replace President-in-Office of the Parliament for an indefinite period of time. The Croatian Parliament prescribes that, the Croatian Constitution prescribes that the Croatian Parliament is established by the election of its president and now a natural interpretation is that the Parliament can function indefinitely without the president. And let's not forget, the President of the Parliament is a state official second in rank after the head of state. Because of all that has been stated at this time, the President of the Chamber and the silence of the Constitutional Court is the only defense of an unconstitutional violation of the Constitution and of the law. If the Prime Minister gets the trust of most MPs in the Croatian Parliament for the new ministers, it will be a proof of the existence of the parliamentary majority and then the president of the Croatian Parliament should put on the agenda a vote on his, his resolution so that the parliamentary majority can elect its speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25328	Thank you. The SDP advocates' club also called for a break. In their name, MP Bernardic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25329	Dear President of the Parliament. What is clear is that last week the government fell in Croatia. There is no new parliamentary majority, at this time, and it is our responsibility to invite the prime minister to show a new parliamentary majority or end this agony in which Croatia has been in the last year and a half, conflicts, quarrels, mutual accusations, riots and political instability of Croatia, which every day costs its citizens economically. Therefore, our task as a responsible opposition is not to participate in this laurd and this work until a new parliamentary majority is established. That is why we have requested today and launched a request for the resolution of 3 Croatian Vice-Presidents from the HDZ because we want a new parliamentary majority to be established in the Croatian Parliament. Unless that's how we settle things differently. Prime Minister Plenkovic, with the protection of the conflict of crime interests in Agrokor and the vote on the mistrust of three ministers, has led Croatia to a situation of major political instability that will result in major economic instability. We therefore call on you to show the parliamentary majority or do what needs to be done, let us take responsibility for Croatia. So we are very clear in our demands, you have the opportunity to propose to the parliamentary majority if you can, if you can't, then we will all clearly and loudly agree. That is why we have referred to the parliamentary procedure of three proposals for the resolution of three HDZ vice-presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25344	Representative Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25345	Thank you, Mr. President. Before voting on agenda points, I request a break on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25346	I'm setting a break of ten minutes. Excuse me, Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25347	We're looking for a break on the same subject as HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25348	Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25349	We're also looking for a break for the club before the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25350	I would ask esteemed fellow MPs to respect the order. Mr. Batinic, can you get a little bit harder?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25351	We're looking for a break from the HNS-HSU club to vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25352	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25353	The SDP club is also looking for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25354	Pupovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25355	Mr. President. On behalf of the SDSS club, I'm looking for a break on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25356	My colleagues at the HDZ Club would like you to really respect this institution. He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25357	Mr. Petrov, we're looking for a break on the same subject on behalf of the Living Wall and the Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25358	Thank you. It's 10.50 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] Six clubs asked for a break. The first club to ask for a break is the HDZ Representatives' Club. In their name will speak MP Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25360	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDZ Club requested a break before the vote on the completion of the agenda. So as for the completion of the agenda, we agree that, and I also said that on the first break, once the breaks have been completed, the completion of the agenda will come and all the proposed agenda points will be included and so will the agenda point, which is just before I have asked for a break divided into benches. What you did not answer me and what I think from the debate so far is quite clear, and when we speak on behalf of the HDZ Club and when other clubs say that it must be seen to us all, clearly when you will put on the vote the agenda item on the request of a group of MPs, 79 MPs on your impeachment because according to the Constitution, according to the Law and the Rules of Procedure, all conditions have been met to vote on your impeachment. You no longer have the opportunity to chair the Parliament until it is determined whether you have the necessary trust of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is a minimum of what you should do without saying that you should be forced to do so and ask as a preliminary question a decision on your status as president of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, it does not appear here that a group of 40 MPs submitted the requests for your resolution to a half-way through the total number of MPs. Therefore, an attempt to extract this and transfer responsibility whether the government has the necessary trust in the Croatian Parliament is a missing thesis. Let him choose to put on the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure a matter of trust to the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole, so we will see whether the Government has confidence or not. According to the law, the prime minister resolved his three ministers after failing to vote as he expected the coalition partner to act. And that's his right. If he hadn't done it and solved the ministers, then he should have stepped down. Therefore, this is not about whether the Government has a majority or not in the Parliament, but whether you have a majority or not, and I am telling you that you do not have it when the motion for your impeachment has been signed by 79 MPs. So that's the previous question. The work of the Parliament cannot continue unless it is settled as a previous issue. As for Minister Maric's trust, we'll see about that after we discuss his status. And we're not running away from it, even though we're asking that tomorrow's debate not to run away from it. We will vote on Minister Maric's position to see if those seeking his impeachment have the required majority of 76 hands. And that's the job of those who asked for his shift. It is not our job to prove that we have 76, but those who have asked the Rules of Procedure to get rid of the Minister of Finance and it is quite clear to everyone who wants to think about the Parliament and the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. And secondly, we don't even insist that it be an immediate request for your, i.e. a debate and a vote on your impeachment, but what we are asking for, which I think also the colleagues of the opposition will accept, and that is that, before any debate begins to meet the Presidency of the Parliament, rather than arguing with us all morning about how and how we will act in the Croatian Parliament. Sometimes the Bureau of Parliament meets and let it define and make clear to the MPs the full order of debate and decision-making within the next three days. It's the minimum we can do. This way, we'll be outsmarting the pauses all day, which we'll do and in what way. We are also destroying the disrupted dignity of the Croatian Parliament with what we are doing. That is why we are acting according to the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure and the minimum that you should do to you, I think that is also the obligation of the President of the Croatian Parliament to convene a session of the Presidency that you have not called upon after 79 MPs have asked you to call off your call and to hear what the vice presidents think and even perhaps an extended session of the Presidency where they would say on behalf of the clubs what we have to say. Therefore, Mr. President, call a session of the Presidency and then we can only continue with the work of the Parliament. And we agree that, immediately after the end of the break, it will be passed to the vote on the completion of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25361	Thank you. The MOST representative's club called for a break. In their name will speak Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25362	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, it is a fact that by collecting signatures as said by counterpart Bacic, they have collected 79 signatures along with the Croatian People's Party, Milorad Pupovac and his club of MPs, that they have gathered the majority. And have you gathered for the new president? I would only ask Parliament Speaker Bozo Petrovov to allow, on behalf of all of us parliamentary deputies, work until the moment you prove the majority that is not available by Andrej Plenkovic, who has deceived the Croatian public. We at this point, at this point, the only thing God Petrov can do is respect the Rules of Procedure. If he gets out of the Rules of Procedure, then you gentlemen can look for what you're looking for. And at the moment when you show 76 signatures for the man who said MOST is a group of dangerous people at that moment I will personally vote to protect this Parliament for the detachment of the God of Petrov. Gentlemen, you've brought the country into crisis! MOST is guilty and a dangerous group of people just because they asked for crime to be investigated, economic crime in Agrokor, in HANFA, in the CNB that destroyed the Croatian monetary system in billions of kuna. That's why Mr. Jandrokovic and I are a dangerous group of people. Are we to blame for the arrest, the location, the transfer while the Croatian state was pillaging? Are we to blame for the White Nights? Are we to blame for the wind power plants? Are we to blame as Most's here? If you had done your job, if you hadn't obeyed all your leaders dearly, today Miro Bulj and this group of people would not be in Parliament. This is the House which the people chose their representatives to fight in the interests of the people, and the President of the Parliament is the one who has to implement the agenda points in the Rules of Procedure and allow us to do our job the way we should do it. And that's why Mr. President, gentlemen of the assembly representatives is paying us the people to work. We know that at this point the archives are a problem, because in them are Todorovic's people who we... in the Union of Communists and later to hold the entire economic system by its throat on today when we remember the hero Borov who died for the freedom of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You are now crying in your courts, because you are protecting only crime and criminals who brought this system here where it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25363	HNS's club, HSU, called for a break. On their behalf will be the representative of Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25364	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I call on the partners of the HDZ and MOST today as well as all other political parties to calm down passion and normalise communication and behaviour in political space. They'd make their contribution if they didn't argue while I'm arguing. Mr. President? We'd also make a contribution if we didn't argue until, give me a chance to say something about decency, not to throw yourself over the bench of people is completely unnecessary. The idea has also come to this political destabilisation of Croatia A little jurisdiction doesn't hurt. [[Adversity President: Representative Bulj.]] A little dignity and respect for those who chose us, you don't have to treat me. [[Intruder President: Representative of the Opera.]] But to those who chose us. So, do you really think, I didn't get an answer to that question that today's session should start with archives from the past? Do we really need to deal with commissions to confront the past? Shouldn't we show enough responsibility in a situation like this today as soon as possible, regardless of the people on the Rules of Procedure? So don't burden people with that? So does it matter which article of the Rules of Procedure is written to Croatian citizens today? They only want one message that will happen when Croatia is stabilised, which programme will be implemented by the government. Let's play the archives, I don't have a problem with those archives at all. I'm not in the archives, I'm too young. There is no one from the CNS that has a problem with archives, we will vote to open archives of all countries of the world. But today we need a message from people, one we vote for Maric, one we vote for trust, I mean against Maric to President of the Parliament and then clearly define whether there is a parliamentary majority or not. It's very simple. Let the Croatian citizens know where Croatia is going. We want to get rid of the minister, point one. Second point, we want to relieve the President of the Parliament. Third point, is there a new President of the Parliament and the declared majority? If there are no people, unfortunately, you who are the most responsible together will lead us to the third election. The HDZ and MOST coalition is twice the responsibility of each shareholder to go to parliamentary elections for the third time. No more, because you shift responsibility to disgust political space and to invoke the past some, as it says in the archives. Where's patriotism from now on? You know what my job is here? To be a patriot fighting against professional patriots and nationalists. That's what Macro said the other day. Is that what Croatia needs? Not professional patriots and nationalists, but patriots who send Croatian citizens one message. We will be worthy to represent you in this House, not by disgusting others, but by offering a solution. And our club's proposal is that the first point is not to be state archives, although we have no problem with it, that the first point is to vote non-confidentially for Maric, the second President of the Parliament, the third, show the majority... to the new president. People, that's the only thing that's normal. And by the end of the day the Croatian public will know what is going on. So let's give them that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25365	The SDP advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will speak the representative of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25366	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. What we have in the Croatian Parliament today can only be described in one single word, which is a travesty. A travesty directed by the Most and HDZ. Because how else do you call the situation where Honorable counterpart Bacic comes for this pay phone and after 27 years of HDZ and his paws over Croatia invites us all to trust them. He says, change Petrov, let us lead the Parliament, and we guarantee you, we guarantee you everything you want to discuss. The HDZ calls us to trust them. Gentlemen, after these 27 years, we can't trust you. But it's only the first act. The second act, a colleague from MOST, comes here after a year and a half in power, after a year and a half of total instability, total instability in which Croatia is located, after a year and a half in which we cannot implement all the reforms they have proposed. Remember reforms, reform only, nothing but reforms. In a year and a half, we didn't do anything in Croatia. Not only did we not do anything new, we stopped all the good that started. Only here and where our economy manages to resist this political situation in Croatia is something happening. Where politics should be initiated there's nothing. Gentlemen, you can be ashamed of what you're doing to us. You can be ashamed of yourself. And then, after all this travesty, we're expected to watch the kickings turn her into a tragedy. Croatia today does not have a functioning government. You can say whatever you want, but the government in which we have four state secretaries appointed overnight and given the power of ministers instead of those who have received the trust of the Croatian Parliament, and thus Croatian citizens, does not exist, it does not work. We can't even determine today if we have a majority that would replace this government with anything. And what are we expected to do? We are expected to discuss state archives in this tragedy, to participate in someone's election campaign for local elections. We won't, gentlemen. The SDP will not participate until further debates, nor in any bickering except in two. First, we are discussing the confidence of Minister Marić, for all that is stated in his request for impeachment, because of all those facts which are very well known to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, we are discussing the impeachment and trust not only to Mr. Petrov, but to Mr. Petrov and the three vice presidents who claim to be part of the majority. If you claim to be part of most of this and by voting in the Croatian Parliament prove it. After that, we expect Mr Plenkovic, if he claims to have it, to show support for 76 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, if that does not happen, it is clear what Croatia is waiting for. We lost a year and a half, we lost a year and a half because of you colleagues who are right in front of me and here with me, that's too much. We don't have time anymore, and you're all ashamed together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25367	The SDSS representative club also called for a break. In their name will be spoken by Pupović's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25368	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As this Parliament now seems to be becoming more and more Agrokor, to become more and more Agrokor. And that could happen to us with the state if we turn Parliament into what became Agrokor. A place of deep crisis in the Croatian economy and Croatian politics. And we can continue the way we're going, but it's perfectly safe to get out of such a complicated ball we won't be able to unless we try to make some kind of deal. The proposal to meet Parliament's presidency under these circumstances is the most normal proposal. Will the presidency reach an agreement? We don't know that, but that institute must be respected, Mr. President. Because that's what you and your Plenkovic club are doing right now. The Institute of Parliament's Presidency is scheduled for our Rules of Procedure and if there are enough disputed places, as there are, then the institute should be activated. If nothing else, President-in-Office of the Parliament, you should have activated it when your member spoke, who of all 151 MPs called one as a black crow, a sheep, as someone who is contagious so that he must not participate in decisions in political life. And this one is not outside the assembly, he was sitting there in the benches, as well as his colleagues, standing in front of you and speaking, Mr. President and his name is Milorad Pupovac, Milorad Pupovac must not participate in the political decision-making system after all these years, making both for him and for his party and for Croatia extremely dangerous and difficult decisions. Like other representatives of the national minorities that you, Mr. President, consider the burden of this House, who you believe should be relieved of it in political decision-making. That's what my colleagues on the left heard. But thank God, I never introduced myself to anyone as Chetnik, despite being called that by many, unlike some of yours who, on different occasions, presented themselves as Ustasha, including the one who named me here. No debate in this House in these circumstances and with this kind of rhetoric, returning to the worst times by those who should guarantee that this country is democratic, reforming and allowing such things, no. So don't be surprised that we put a signature on your solution because you keep quiet about it, you keep quiet about a number of other things, and at the same time you're pulling through the Parliament a set of private laws of MOSTs that have nothing to do with the state, its interests. And you abused our colleagues' SDP initiative, O.K., a legitimate opposition initiative, everyone would do it. Why? So that you may once again destroy the government as you have destroyed it. But then you had the opportunity to get support, now that possibility, as far as we're concerned, you don't. You don't. Either a stable government or an election, that's our choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25369	Thank you. The "Live Wall" representative's club called for a break. In their name will speak MP Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25370	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Petrov, in the autumn of 2015, you were a hero of this people and you could really do so and become that you spent at least a part of what you announced as a public administration reform, such as breaking the executive law, abolishing the HRT tax, preventing dissuading. But we haven't seen anything out of it in a year and a half. Instead, we have seen unnecessarily co-operation with HDZ, increased tolls, electricity, gas, real estate tax work, and the introduction of bad tax reform. Twice you from MOST raised your hands for Minister Zdravko Marić, you raised your hands for Lex Agrokor two weeks ago. You could have been heroes, but you missed your chance. If you wanted to listen, if you wanted to think, you could have known in 2012 the situation in Agrokor and who Zdravko Marić is. If only you had looked at his watch on his arm, it would have been clear to you that this man does not care about the people and what miles he comes from. Only now, when it comes to your chair, did you remember that Prime Minister Andre Plenkovic is a dictator. How come now? Why didn't you think about it in time? That's where people warned you, and we from the Living Wall, you took our word. 25 times you've told us a warning to HDZ agents once. You've been running censorship, and now you expect, too, when you've rejected all our amendments now you expect us to save your chair. Mr Petrov, you no longer have the support of the Croatian Parliament's representative and even more defiant than you, you no longer have the support of the Croatian people. The only honorable exit you have right now is to resign immediately. You want to discuss archives and methods today and you here today are using the same method that Josip Manulić used in 1994 when he refused to leave the seat of President of the Parliament even though he did not have support. So what kind of paradox is that? Your role model is the man you're supposed to want to expose right now. Save your cheek for as little as you have left. Don't go into some kind of high-level procedure, don't use the seat of President of the Parliament for political reckonings. Fight in elections, local and parliamentary, present your programme and your people, restore the trust of the Croatian people, and then you do not have to fear for your destiny or for the fate of Croatia. And you HDZ gentlemen, you know very well that you don't have a majority today, you pose as some government, as some government, and that your government is at the level of Latin-American dictatorships. And indeed in that part perhaps Mr. Petrov is right, think about it because you have no legitimacy. It is fortunate that we are not in Latin America, but in Europe, because perhaps today, the streets of Zagreb would really be tumbling tanks and I don't know how the military came out because this government is therefore not the Government in a legitimate way. With MOST leaving the government, it is clear that HDZ does not have 76 hands, it currently has a maximum of 71. And any decision that follows, the government intends to make the following days, any cabinet session in this configuration, means that it is declared to be a regular government, a stable government is simply not fair, is not fair, is not legitimate to Croatian citizens who expect this crisis to be resolved immediately if possible already today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u25371	Thank you, counsel Bunjc. I'll give you a quick answer and we'll get back to work. Members of the HDZ Constitution and the Rules of Procedure will be respected, and do not call for morality, you should have thought about this both with democratic values and procedures a week ago. Tomorrow he will discuss Zdravko Maric regardless of whether the President of the Parliament is me or someone else. In your words, then we don't need an extra dot before the archives. And for the archives, I don't think they're any pre-election rhetoric, any pre-election spin at all. If nothing else, at least today when we all see that there is not a majority of parliament that gives legitimacy to the work of the government, and at least today and tomorrow before the vote of Zdravko Marić, you will be able to vote in the archives, on your own, independently and non-party machinery. We continue with the point: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive materials and archives, second reading, P.Z. Number 104. The proposal shall be made by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on the basis of Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure. Comrade Reiner,... /The speakers speak at the same time./... Excuse me, I beg your order. I've given you more than one word, I've given you the opportunity to pause, I'd ask you not to disturb Parliament's work to discuss it, and tomorrow you'll have a chance. Mr. Rainer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37379	Mr. Petrov, you abuse democracy, I will now say it very clearly and openly. At this point, the only thing that is clear to all of us here and the Croatian public is that 79 members of this House, therefore the absolute majority, have shown you mistrust. If I were you, I would resign this weekend because it would be honorable, because it would be clear that if most of those who gave me the trust to be in this place, now it is denying me the confidence to simply withdraw. All else whether Minister Maric will succeed in getting 76 votes against himself, whether there is a majority, whether there is no majority, so most countries have minority governments in Europe, therefore it is irrelevant. This is very clear, you no longer have confidence and I forgive you as colleagues that you are trying in some strange way to avoid it and I don't know, crampingly stick to this chair instead of doing what would be normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37380	Comrade Reiner, thank you for your words, for your remarks. As for the chair, we proved last year that we didn't care about the chair. You're the ones who fought for those chairs last year. I thank you for all your remarks. The next item of the agenda is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive materials and archives, second reading, P.Z. Number 104. The proposal shall be made by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on the basis of Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure. The material was delivered to the boxes. Contributions to the bill are not multiplied but are on the Assembly's website. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The Legislative Committee had no quorum. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion and submitted amendments. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Agent Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37381	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask you for some peace. A colleague of Pupovac and a colleague of Bacic I'd like to ask you for a moment. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very end of this lengthy and unusual legislative procedure, I have the special pleasure to present to you the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive materials and archives. First of all, for the sake of the Croatian public, I would like to point out that in the preparation of this proposal, the MOST Club has made significant efforts to overcome efforts to prevent or delay its adoption. Let us just remind ourselves that we have engaged in a particularly unusual, unique situation that has never occurred in the history of the Croatian Parliament. It is significant that, just in the case of the Archive Law, a large precedent has been made in such a way that a parliamentary committee is bound by the legislator of the law, in this case by the MOST Club, the Independent Lists, to obtain an opinion on the proposal for legal text. The archival law is an important, and even to a certain extent sensitive law but is not a first-rate issue facing the Republic of Croatia, and certainly it is not a law that would require such an excessive precedent treatment. I remind you that a large number of laws have been passed in Croatia that were extremely sensitive and whose meaning was first-class and that many of them were not given such an opinion. It is quite clear that the general public noticed that this was the conduct of the Assembly Committee on Culture and its president, Andra Krstulovic Opara, was done exclusively with the intention of obstructing the adoption of archival law and difficulties. Finally, this never before recorded event in the Croatian Parliament was so significant that it was directed directly to close the archives. It is also signifiable that today, before the debate and adoption, before the debate and adoption of this law occur and significant unprecedented disturbances in our political system in a way that in a desperate act, the ultimate destruction seeks to disrupt the work of the Croatian Parliament as a representative body of the Croatian people. In that sense, I have to ask myself from this pay phone who is in the interest of stopping the adoption of the Archive Law and opening the archives. To whom and why it bothers the archives to open up and make the people available the truth. Due to all the events associated with the adoption of this law, the MOST Club will insist that each parliamentary representative casts his position on the archives of the failed communist system independently and individually in front of the Croatian public. The question that lies ahead of us is simply will we continue as we have done so far to protect the secrets of a totalitarian system or will we, as a true modern democracy, face the capital issues of our history and free from its chains, begin our journey to the future? In the debate in the Croatian Parliament, in this bill in the first reading, we heard a number of and often conflicting opinions that ranged from advocating for the full openness of the archive to the claim that Croatia is like a child to whom we do not have to tell everything. Discussing all the benefits and alleged damages that Croatian society could have learned about its past, the MOST Club was the first to define. Our firm view is that facing all aspects of the Yugoslav communist system is an important assumption of the democratisation of Croatian society. Only if we have full knowledge of key people and events about the former state can we correctly conclude what happened in the '90s or what's happening today. In view of this, we need to ask ourselves how much is the price that we as a people are willing to pay today so that we can decide freely tomorrow about our future. It is a real test of proportionality that we must carry out here in the Croatian Parliament and for this proposal today. In this regard, the club MOST specifically considered the need to protect privacy and personal data in the archive material created by the former Yugoslavia's body will use numerous comparative experiences but in the light of the specific Croatian circumstances. Here I initially think of the fact that in modern Croatia almost no one was responsible for the crimes that occurred in the former communist system, and that Croatia is one of the few former communist states where the lustration was not carried out. The circumstances mentioned in Croatian reality are particularly significant because it often prevents a clear distinction between persecutors and victims. I ask you which one of us can safely point a finger at someone who is not a court or state body who finds guilty and peaceful consciences hardening you are a persecutor. Gentlemen, don't forget that things aren't always as simple and clear as they seem. It has often occurred that those whom we could easily accuse as persecutors of their own people were forced into torture or blackmail. Such information can reveal the motivations and reasons for the conduct of a unique and unrepeated human being can only be obtained with full availability of archival material and one containing very intimate personal data. The government's position was to clearly distinguish the persecutor and the victim. Obviously, that means without opening the archives, it's impossible. The government was going to make nine amendments that I didn't agree to. I've agreed to three amendments that don't change the spirit of the law. That's why I've also experienced unpleasant scenes at the Ministry of Culture. And now it's likely, I expected it won't happen today to these kind of obstructions. I was convinced that the HDZ would support this bill at least before the local elections, and then after the local elections with the CNS, pass this restrictive law proposed by the Ministry of Culture and shut it down again. But we'll see what happens here at the assembly. So there is no other path that would allow us to see so clearly in all the circumstances of a particular case that gathers the attention of researchers without opening up a full archive. However, the availability of archive material does not depend exclusively on abstract norms that regulate the availability of material containing personal data or which is marked by some of the degrees of secrecy. The first assumption of the availability of archive material is that it is in archives. In this respect, the MOST Club suffered arbitrary complaints about the costs of the application of this law, the inability to implement it, the lack of space, human resources and the like. The same remarks were made by the Minister today on the committee. The objections were thus pointed out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion. These objections are considered unworthy discussions in the Croatian Parliament as a absence of the will to implement this law, and this will be done by the authority of the Croatian Parliament if you do not change your mind at the last minute and withdraw in fear of what will be found in these archives. That is why we continue to insist on handing over materials to archives as soon as possible. We've extended the deadline with this amendment at the request of the Minister. Otherwise, the material is threatened by systematic destruction, and we will expose users to extreme arbitration in their demands. I also want to talk from this place about the complaints that have been sent to us because of the alleged opening of this topic for populist reasons because the archives were intended to be opened anyway through the Ministry of Culture's initiative. After seeing this initiative which suddenly saw the light of day a few weeks ago, we believe that there is an even greater need for this law to be passed as the only dam against further manipulations of Croatian history for daily-political purposes. I will also talk about a draft of a comprehensive archival law, which was presented a few weeks ago by the Ministry of Culture, which was often called at the Croatian Parliament by an esteemed secretary of state. For the sake of the Croatian public, it is a law that paves the way for extreme arbitration, about Croatian archival activity. It is also a law that will allow legalisation of the destruction of the original archive material where the destruction of the original archive material was allowed after 1990 without any criteria, completely arbitrarily and without any restrictions. It is a law that will legalise the full arbitration determination of the availability of classified archive material in such a way that classification can be extended indefinitely and unnecessarily and illegally, pardon indefinitely. It also provides for unnecessary and illegal collection of user personal data when using archival material contrary to the public principle of archives and archive material. It is a law which provides for the resolution of requests for the use of materials as it states within a reasonable period of time without any definition of what that reasonable period should mean and thus deny the user the right to appeal. As regards the materials created by the functioning of the body and the organisations of the former communist system, this law introduces unclear criteria of the availability of this material and undefined legal terms that will allow users of the archives to be exposed in practice to the full arbitration of the archives. Based on these facts, you can now judge the intentions of its authors. Unfortunately, the sole purpose of such a law can be to close and destroy archives. For all these reasons, I ask the representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament to ensure that the national memory of the Croatian people is preserved by the laws we have proposed from all efforts to forget the actions of those who wanted to harm them. At the very end of my presentation, I will quote the relevant documents of the Council of Europe on the European policy of access to archives. So I quote. It is generally accepted that the state does not belong to the democratic world until all its inhabitants have been able to get acquainted in an objective way with the elements of their history for which it is important to create awareness through European co-operation at international level. Access to public archives is also a right in a political system that respects democratic values that should be given to all citizens regardless of their nationality, status or duty. The end of the quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37382	Representative Maria Jelkovac reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37383	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoy, you said that the debate in the assembly that preceded this point was actually trying to disable the debate on this agenda point. It's actually a replacement. The president of the House's 79 deputies, who was distrusted by putting this point into debate before discussing his trust, has actually shown that he does not want to discuss his trust. The HDZ has nothing against this law, and the evidence is that the government has also voted in favour of this bill and sent it further into the procedure and after MOST ministers proceeded with their procedure to destroy the government and destabilise the state. So I must stress that still showing confidence is to the President of the Parliament who is one of us here and who has been chosen by the will of the majority. At a time when these wills are no longer available, it is not a point like other means that should be discussed before the other points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37384	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37385	Your Honor. Dear colleague Jelovac, I agree with you. You have essentially admitted that the government has given an opinion, this is the move of architects Gregoric, Valentiæ, Seks, Bozinović and before this, they gave this and then you are now asking the President of the Parliament to leave or perhaps even support the law then you will bring this one with you later. That's your plan, I know that's your plan. But you're talking about the President of the Parliament having no confidence. It's not even the Prime Minister. So today in Nacional, it came out as Kresso Beljak exported it, it's amazing, as he exported Milanovic, as he told him you had my five hands this one came state-ownedly replaced three ministers, says I have a majority then for two of the total majority. The Prime Minister doesn't have much of a man to resign to come here and say I destabilized the state, I gave up 15 hands and these hands here, this hand was for him no more. He no longer has a bigger one in the Croatian Parliament, and we will pass this law as much as you object to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37386	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37387	You should have interrupted your party member who was talking about a subject that had nothing to do with this. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37388	I'd like to ask you not to intervene. Agent Reiner, I've made it possible for a representative to replicate and give a reply to the replica, and in the very replica of a colleague from your club it was just that. All I'd ask is for everyone to follow closely what they're saying and what they're replicating themselves to. Thank you. Representative Zeljko Reiner asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37389	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoy, you've asked a few questions about who and why it bothers to open archives and who's afraid to find them. And I ask that question, who does it bother? And then why is a law made that cannot be implemented in the way it is intended to be implemented? Obviously because local elections are coming. Let us remember the whole story, at the first cabinet session, Prime Minister Plenkovic announced the adoption of such a law, and at that session, the government's plan envisions that such a law be passed in the third quarter, i.e. He was supposed to be here in front of us complete at the 9th month of this year. You are exclusively for demagogue reasons and pre-election reasons before the local elections you came out with a law that is partial and which is unfortunately contrary to what I am convinced, I want, but what you want probably, which is to establish which were the people who persecuted Croatian patriots. There's more reason and evidence about it. There is no obligation at all, and when there is no legal obligation then anything is possible, there is no obligation for the SKH archives and the SKJ to surrender, completely, there is no obligation, it is not written with the saying inside So the second one is not written how much it's going to cost, and it's known that there's no room at this hour, no people. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] According to this,... /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37390	Time's up. Thank you. The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37391	Dear Vice President Reiner. So you're obviously not familiar with the legal proposal. This legislative proposal has also been supported by some of your representatives, such as Mr Hasanbegovic, who says this legislative proposal is excellent. So it's not true that it's going to open the archives right now, and the costs you're talking about, which 70 million kuna to solve one of these crucial issues facing the past, is going to be some kind of problem for HDZ then obviously you don't have the real will to do it, and this is seen from this bill of law given by the Ministry of Culture. And later on, I will finally make comments and correctly determine and show that the law proposed by the Ministry of Culture is going to close the archives. And that, of course, if we're for a full opening, and we are, of course, then the archives will need to accept all that material that will require certain financial costs for the state. This bill of law does not require any financial costs because nothing will open.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37392	Representative Josip Djakic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37393	Thank you very much. Well, I had to replicate it because it was emphasized that we wouldn't support this proposal. I would say that if the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with your ministers and with the Prime Minister, gave its opinion in which it clearly accepts this bill which has been substantially amended since the first reading, has significantly changed, which are the regulations that should be inside and respected, where expert bodies have conducted the debate as the public who discussed the first reading made clear their comments, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the State Archives, the Public Prosecutor for Information, all those who spoke clearly have said theirs. This is a real precedent to call someone, and me and my colleagues absolutely have no reason to hide and be someone's support and transport, we are clear and open but it must be all in the legal frameworks and following the positive regulations that apply to the Republic of Croatia today, but also in Europe. So don't be demagogue and call us lame. We will support such a proposal, but it may be at the wrong time, so you're using more and more of this to get as popular as possible. But that's not what they're getting at. It is in our interest that all those who have been in the role of the Yugoslav state as UDBA, KOS, informants, assistants and all others should be made public and that we know who we are dealing with. This is primarily for us and as people who were willing to give life for Croatia in the interest of knowing who we might be sitting with in the Assembly, who our shadow was or who is following us today. These are all the things that I want to hear and know and therefore there is no reason to doubt that we are against something but are also for opening the archives for full transparency in everything that is needed and especially in the archive material.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37394	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37395	Dear counterpart Djakic, you should first agree with Academy President Reiner, he argues that this bill closes archives, you speak of the government supporting it, that you support it. You're so confused and I understand it, because those who are architects of this whole plan, so they also have some code names, so they're in fear now, it's panic, it's panic and in the Banian Courts, I'm aware of that. But we're not gonna give up, I'm the guy who doesn't give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37396	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37397	Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure because my colleague Grumoya knows exactly that an hour and a half ago, two hours ago, we were on the board when we talked about me saying that I would support that law even though it has a number of disadvantages. And now I've pointed out those fewer and I said I'd back it up. Right? Let us, therefore, not just act demagoguely and populistly over and over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37398	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37399	Mr. President, my colleague Reiner has violated Rules of Procedure 238, because nothing he has said is said in any sentence in the entire article. Therefore, neither did he say the item but referred to a session she did not have, a session of the Committee responsible for this which has nothing to do with the discussion between his colleagues, Grmoja and Djakic's replica. So maybe you should warn him about this case because they're using space to misinformed the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37400	I would recommend to esteemed MPs, MPs to use the Replication Institute to replicate each other rather than injure the Rules of Procedure. Representative Marko Vučetic answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37401	I don't think we should leave out the key question that says it's possible in a world where there's nothing hidden that still there's something hidden in Croatia. We can call societies that have set out in a scientific way to expose this concealment with justice to historical societies. They're modern societies that don't live in historical cramps. Croatia, as long as the archives from this period that we are discussing today are being prevented by history researchers from revealing and reaching historical truth, is unfortunately not in a group of these historical societies, but in a group of either prehistory or non-history societies. We now have the opportunity to discern and learn what would be called historical truth. It is clear that this also necessarily means meeting with all those who have actively worked to keep it hidden and still. And for this reason, I hold that, on the proposal of this law, by voting this law, we are not only facing one vote of law but also that parliamentary deputies are committed to Croatia which will be a historical society founded in historical truth or continue to develop as a society that is based on these active hiding mechanisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37402	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Andru Krstulović Opara, chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37403	This morning, the Honored Committee on Education, Science and Culture held its session and majority of votes, so it unanimously accepted the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive Papers and Archives, second reading, P.Z. No. 104. In this debate, we heard the proposals and opinions of the promoters as well as the representatives of the Ministry of Culture in which we were also familiar with the fact that the Government adopted this law and also addressed its amendments that would include my guess in this debate and reported that a public debate was open on the full law on archival construction that was just in progress, which fulfilled its promise several weeks ago to join the full amendment of this law. And it is expected that the achievements of this bill proposed by the MOST gentleman will also be an integral part of this whole law. I would like to stress that the Committee has adopted this law unanimously as a parent body. At that session, all members of the HDZ who did not question the opportunity and quality of this document at any moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37404	Does the Government's representative want to give an additional explanation and the amendments submitted? Mr. Ivica Poljičak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37405	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I will only put together the basic elements of the Government's opinions that are already publicly available for a few days, which is positive with the three amendments being proposed to further improve the existing Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive Papers and Archives. So I'll tell you what the amendments are about. The first amendment in Article 8 is amended, the amendment of Article 24(2) which should read as follows: “The users are allowed to multiply the records of archive material with their own manual technical means for personal use without payment of compensation.” And in the explanation, this refers practically to the following: “This means that users of the archive are allowed to multiply the records of the archive material independently with their own technical means of personal use without compensation so that this provision would not be used inappropriately in everyday application for commercial purposes”. The second amendment in Article 12 amending Articles 66 and 2(2), subparagraphs 2, 3 and 4 shall delete the above subparagraph 5 as set out in subparagraph 2 and in paragraph 4 shall be deleted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This explains that Article 12 has been amended in relation to the abovementioned amendments and the proposed legislative provisions. The provisions on the punishment of directors have also been deleted, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that they are disproportionate in relation to current practice and experience, and given that public archive material is inalienable. The third amendment proposed by the Government in Article 14 is also amended and reads as follows: “The creators and holders of the public archive material referred to in Article 21a. paragraph 1 of Article 6 of this Act is required to draw up a list of that material and to submit it to the competent State Archives within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act. The competent national archive shall make lists referred to in paragraph 1 available to the public and users of the archives and shall provide them to the Ministry of Culture and to the State's Attorney. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall notify the Croatian Parliament within six months of the expiry of the deadline set out in paragraph 1 of this article on the lists of archive material referred to in Article 21a. paragraph 1 of Article 6 of this Act. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Here are three amendments proposed by the government. I can also complete these amendments with claims that these three amendments are in line with the representatives of the motion itself immediately before the meeting of the Government, and I can say that by 8 May at the e-consultation, in other words in the public debate, the whole proposal for a new law on archival material and archives made in the Ministry of Culture, so that all interested Croatian public is able to deliver their opinions, remarks and possible proposals before the law comes to reading in these parliamentary benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37406	Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club has applied for participation in the debate. In their name will speak MP Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37407	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I don't really know how much it makes sense to talk about this because Mr. Grumoja has already said what HDZ and HDZ representatives will be like, so it is, which is quite unusual but allow a few words anyway. In his own explanation for this law, the Proposer found the following. The archival law, the existing Archive Law in many places is normably inconclusive and leaves a place of doubt, doubt and arbitration. In the democratic legal order, such a normative disorder is illegal and is constitutionally unacceptable because it leads to the emergence of total legal uncertainty. With the assessment of the existing law and the motives for the adoption of the new law with which we absolutely agree, the question arises, in fact, why is it only going with the fragmentary changes of this law, and does not want to propose a whole law that simply would not be abundant with certain irregularities, i.e. to avoid these indeterminates in advance because we are already aware that this will happen. On the other hand, it is unacceptable and incorrect to say that it was precedent to seek the opinion of the competent institutions on the first proposal of this law, since it is a common practice to especially when laws go into second reading to seek additional opinions, and on the other hand, the assumption is that all laws should be adopted that they pass a public debate and that the opinion of the competent institutions should be heard. Otherwise, as a clear information when an amendment to this Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament has been made, my amendment which was not then accepted is that, among other things, the legislator must be informed about the public debate which was being held and what was adopted during the public debate, or after a public debate, which is not why. Let's get back to this bill. Namely, a few things that need to be resolved in advance because they are not precise. An unconditional download of the archive structure of all institutions is required until 22.12.In the '90s. Mr. Grmoya said the money couldn't be an obstacle to that. I'm in agreement, only the money needs to be secured. Not only should money be provided but there is room for it, and additional people should also be provided. So here I'm talking about everything you've said about all the archives that are needed, since it includes both archives and hospitals and I don't know the garter and everything else. So what happens if money is not secured? In a year or a year or a half you'll say, that's obstruction, it doesn't want to be done, it doesn't want to be shown. It will be an argument that you will use for a year and a half without seeing that this is a real assumption that this law would want to be fulfilled. Therefore, if you are engaged in demagogy, then you might ask if your goal is not to achieve this, but unfortunately I believe that I will never descend to that level and that level. On the other hand, it is said here in the preamble, or in the explanation that this is done for the truth in order to learn the truth about the failed communist system, that someone is protecting the secret communist system. And the fact is that it's not taxing the KPJ, the KPH, the SKH that they need to hand over their archives. The euphemism is used to make sure someone doesn't get offended, so it says social political organisations. The owner of totalitarian systems was a Communist party, thus leaving out such a tax-free alliance of communists and communist parties means softening the whole requirement and not probably opening up any additional relations that may be behind it. Among other things, this fee does not list a conscience for international defence and social protection, the committee is listed, but the advice is something else. The Council is a party state body that was not entirely party but also state and party, headed by law or law by the President of the Union of Communists of Croatia, which was the key body that had just decided who should be arrested, who should be eliminated where it was at least co-responsible, given that part of these structures were being implemented and part of what was coming under the Belgrade directive. By the way, what Mr Bernardic said was that they were open, that there was no problem with them, that was double incorrect. First, because I asked a few years ago what with the archives of the General Defence Council, and then Prime Minister Milanovic answered that it was handed over to the military archive. That's where I checked. That's not what's been handed over. So that archive wasn't handed over. On the other hand, that everyone can enter and watch the SKH archive is not true because the SDP's secretary-general should first have the consent of the SDP's secretary-in-chief, and therefore, that comment by MP Bernardic is not correct. Furthermore, the problem will remain to remove unconditional protection of personal data. Why? I don't mean personal data here, and that's where you should talk about different positions and data. One thing is when someone was an associate, an employee or in the structure of that totalitarian regime that used the repressive apparatus is not a problem, but I don’t see why people’s health data 30 years ago should be available to everyone. Under this law, that's possible. So you can explore who was in the hospital or wasn't in the hospital, had this or what or who had a grade in mathematics, physics or history... Why must this be unconditionally open and accessible to all? Furthermore, the problem of infringement orders for directors is raised. Those directors who won't be able to see the building within this deadline will pay the fine, and we just physically know that they won't be able to accept all these buildings because they don't have any space, they don't have people. I can register it, but I can't take it. We're talking about total construction, and now I'm not just talking about these institutions that are listed. In my opinion, I've given a few examples of why I don't think all of them are listed that should be taxed. Furthermore, the question of this declassification of this data is, on certain occasions, a clear matter that these documents must be declassified. You have a few problems here, first to finish this 30-day declassification, I don't think it's realistic because some procedures will take longer, I don't think they extend to years, but in the days of 30 days it won't be possible. There's one provision that's quite problematic, sounds good, but it's simply dysfunctional. It is said that everyone in a year will be able to, in a year each person will be able to request that his data be not made public. But even if I were to ask you here, who of you knows who they are, what personal data the archives have so that I can look for these data and which archive I'm going to ask that the data on me is not available. What is missing here is this precision that a type of data can be required to exempt, or to protect data on maintained categories such as health data, sexual orientation to protect it and priority, there is simply no such thing as this. So it seems to me that this, that these indecisiveness, they need to be corrected, are proposed amendments that the government has already proposed. It is necessary to re-install that one declassification provision and not that if it is not answered within 30 days that the information is deemed to be declassified. And I said already that this request, that everyone can ask for insight and that they have that it's simply something that is functionally not going to be possible to realize within those deadlines. Last time I said the same thing about this law, I said something else and I think it's worth repeating. I agree that we need the truth about these totalitarian regimes, that the archives should be opened. However, we should be aware that this effort to determine the truth needs to be much greater, that what is missing, that this integrity and truth about it will not be complete if we do not reach the archives that Croatia has the right to and which, by conflict, should receive from the federal institutions, the party's calling on the communists, or the Communist parties of Yugoslavia, as well as the JNA, so that we can come to an overall insight, i.e. that researchers and individuals can come to the knowledge and truth. However, it would be very important in my opinion if, if the applicant had suggested something else, which is what, one part of these transition or post-Communist countries have, which is that an institute for research of totalitarian regimes is being formed, that someone is systematically dealing with these totalitarian regimes, their actors, mechanisms, crimes, victims that we will open up without such an approach, which is good and that we need space for individuals to investigate themselves but we need a far greater effort to get a complete picture of it. So as far as I'm concerned, we need to advocate this formation, and find the means to form such an institute, a centre, a centre that would explore the totalitarian communist regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37408	A representative of Nikola Grmoya first reported for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37409	Dear colleague Tudjman, I did not say that I knew how the HDZ Club would vote, here when colleagues started making a fuss before I left, Vice President Jandrokovic said don't make a fuss, it will turn out that we are against this and so on. I don't know how you'll get up later. You are now in a difficult situation, so just like Seks, Bozinović and this team have played a maneuver, so this right now, so you're put before a done act, and you have to support this now. And you'll probably later, so with HNS you'll change this law because it doesn't suit you, and I'll tell you later what's so controversial about this bill proposed by the Ministry of Culture. And all of this you've made some small remarks that 30 days isn't enough, 30 days enough. And as for that, the exemption of certain data, so anyone can come into the archive in a year means also reviewing the data that concerns him. In a year, it's a reasonable, reasonable deadline. The archives from Belgrade mean it's not the subject of the law and this institute you're talking about, so it might be good, but I'm afraid that this institute doesn't become censorship because the lustration didn't happen to us and the question is who would come to that institute again and conduct a certain censorship. Let's open it up to everyone and see who did what and who was involved with that former system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37410	The answer to the replica is Agent Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37411	You see, colleague Grmoy, you have repeated what HDZ will do in the future and you know again that this law will change because this does not suit us. What I said at the beginning, I repeat, and now, this is a fragmented approach to a problem that is far more complex and should be far more affected to be effective. A year is enough for one piece of information, but how much time do you have here, how long it takes to explore and get those data that someone might ask for, or not ask to protect, or exempt, or I don't know what. Therefore, the problem with archive construction is far from complex from one of the narrow interests that I justify and accept is not a problem in motive, but in the requirement that things be resolved systematically and in the long term. And you see for yourself, and I told you with these premises on which this law will be passed in a year and a half he will not simply be able to function because there is no material, humane assumption to be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37412	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37413	Representative Tudjman, 25 years of Croatian state's absolute archives are closed. Every election campaign, there's talk of lustration, there's political points. Of course this went to MOST law after 25 years he came, it went into two readings. And I know it's not easy now that these ravens are losing their beaks, that they've created the system and the Todorics and the other tycoons. It's not easy for them! But this is after 25 years. And surely this law had the opportunity to correct itself and was corrected and the possibility of more of these trips opened up. I know he didn't, that he's the creator of all that logic. But the fact is, after 25 years, we have to tell my Sinjana, their family, Mark Happy, why he suffered so much. We need to tell Tihomil Raja why he suffered and the first president of your father what happened to him. We have to tell all people the truth. And the owls, what do we do to them, we can't do anything to them, they can go to Kulmer's palaces now lean on their backs as you behave. So that, not you in general, not HDZ members, not people ordinary, but in general how they're going to treat this archive, we're going to see that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37414	The answer to the replica is Agent Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37415	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Bull, first of all, we need to figure out how old this year is and how old it is 25 years or something else. If we're talking about archives, at least we should have a common position, especially here in the Parliament. So it's the first premise. On the other hand, if he agrees with what you said to all those who were victims, they should see that background and the actors behind it. But I ask you, then, why didn't you state in this law that the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, the Union of Communists of Croatia and the Communist Party of Croatia were responsible for this because it was called at the beginning. Why didn't you say so? Because she was the key and her role needs to be demystified, that's what this is about. Therefore, if you want to start from the very beginning and put it in the end not somewhere, but rather because all these institutions were owned by the Communist Party, or the Union of Communists of Croatia. So let's start speaking Croatian once.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37416	Representative Marko Vučetic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37417	The intensity of this law is to make it easier to make available the archive material or that historical source that will allow us to implement one scientific reconstruction of a totalitarian regime, a totalitarian system. This is extremely necessary for Croatian society because we have indeed found ourselves in a fatal state of chronological and historical trauma, because there has been a break in the linearity of historical events. We don't know one period, it's an important period of our past, and whenever it happens in history, then instead of linear time and linear history, cyclicity happens to us. We always get the same people back, same themes. We have been able to find protagonists of historical or social development for the last 30 years or 40 years. And we are now interested in whether these same people and the same topics are inputs and bear the contents of the truth or the contents of the truth. That is why this law will act and medicinally not only will we come out of this cyclical cycle of historical and social drama but we will find ourselves no matter how much it costs, that if we have the opportunity to get rid of these traumatic features that we will find these 70 million kunas or how long it takes to get this law implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37418	Replication response, Agent Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37419	Thank you. Comrade Vučetić, you have opened one topic that you would like to discuss, but the problem of cyclical history is not linear but is happening in certain paradigms and jumps. That is why Yugoslavia fell apart, the creation of a new system, etc. But you're probably thinking of something else, not those leaps that happen in history and change. As for this, on the other hand, I think the basic assessment of what was in the totalitarian systems knows what happened in the 1990s is known. Also, but I agree with what you said you wanted to plant certain, or you didn't say, but it implies that you wanted to frame yourself, that we have one of those same people in positions all the time. But it is forgotten to say that Croatia was created by all those who, whom the Communist Party had lastrated until the 1990s, because here the people who were in the first session of the Parliament had a large number of years in prison because they advocated some other non-linear changes. On the other hand, a lustration was carried out in 2000 because the then SDP, or six, lustrated those who created the Croatian state. So these are some cycles that need to open archives, you need to have insights and you need to come up with complete historical truths.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37420	Representative Angelko Strick called for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37421	President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Tudjman, you have touched many possible potential issues in the implementation of that law in your debate. You have also touched on the issues of possible abuse of archive construction, the responsibility of the director for acting or not acting on request, and you have also touched on how the documentation should be classified, and that it would be desirable to collect the construction of the federal institutions of the former state. Of course this could be done in a quality and professional way, it is necessary to provide space and professional persons, people, so it is primarily necessary to provide financial resources. In view of all of the above, I support your debate and I agree that this part of the archive building would be dealt with systematically and in the long term, it is primarily necessary to provide financial resources to ensure both space and professional persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37422	The answer to the replica is Agent Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37423	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, who will be a consequence of accepting without these proposed amendments to this law, is that all those directors of archives who want to protect their dignity and professional status will resign. Why? Because they're going to have to pay the fines because they won't be able to provide the data someone's looking for, and these data are in funds that they can't receive and can't process in time. So here we are discussing not whether we need it because the motives are clearly acceptable, unequivocal, but we are discussing adopting a law that will work in reality that will work in practice. And if we had a serious discussion about archives, then let me have one project to propose that will probably cost a terrible amount, but after a certain time Croatia will really start to function as a modern state in digital form with all the data from the past, but also with all the data it generates today and that will immediately remain in digital form for future generations. So this topic is made from one narrow focus and of interest just to show that we're doing something, but not with a real desire to realize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37424	Representative Josip Djakic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37425	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Tudjman, you've made a good point in your debate that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said about the assessment of the situation all in its opinion. In its opinion it is clear that it absolutely supports the assessment of the situation which is evident that it is necessary to change fully and without delay of the draft law amending and supplementing the law on archive material. However, the remaining doubts that have not been resolved in a legal sense and technically completed are thus corrected in part, although not all of them are not. And what is also needed to make this law functional in its amendments and additions, that 30 thousand long meters of this material should be provided for accommodation, money for it, functional activity, people and everything else. I think it is visible from the government's stance and opinion as well as the assessment of the situation that the government was absolutely for that purpose to change the law and to allow for insight into the archives as well as all the archives of the very quiet, and what you say is good that it was counted in the law taxful about which all of these party institutions were doing, which was in the past, which was the communist alliance, which is the central committee, which is the socialist alliance, which is defence and protection, which is all the institutions, which is UDBA, which is KOS, which is on the list of those who are closely co-operating in prisons. And what we can't safely accept as you yourself have determined is that someone is putting blame on our party, on the president, on the government as a whole, that we don't accept this. Absolutely, we want it to be as good and functional as possible so that all together can live happily and peacefully knowing who they were, what they were doing. who worked against the Croatian state. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Of course you know a lot more about what's been going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37426	The answer to the replica is Agent Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37427	Thank you, Mr. President. What is missing in this Parliament's Rules of Procedure is that the law should not come into debate until the legislator proposes an analysis of the situation. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is now necessary to have only an assessment of the situation, and we have seen that it is unsatisfactory. The analysis of the situation based on what you said should be precise, meaning days not out of the sleeve but given it really 30 thousand meters missing, 50 thousand or 10 thousand or some empirical figure that is not a matter of agreement and conversation but rather what the archivists or building owners must suggest. And on that basis goes this assessment of how many people need to process it, time, space, etc. This element of the analysis of the state of each law, not only this law would make the Croatian Parliament work no more with political assessments from demagogical to any good will that we want to achieve than to be realistic in our assessments when we adopt one law in which time, as much as and in what way what we want to solve, or what shifts from one law to another change of any law will be solved. So in this sense, we need far more seriousness and tolerance and above all professional bases to discuss the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37428	Representative Vesna Bedeković reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37429	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, although my colleagues have already talked about it, yet I still need to point out once again that it is of course not questionable to support and certainly always to open the archives, so we have already explained why. However, I will once again point out one important question, so when it comes to the focus of archival citizens and its accommodation, the storage issue, the issue of preservation of archival buildings, the issue of availability, the issue of availability to the public, therefore, and all of this is linked to the issue of ensuring both material, such financial and then very important human resources in order to achieve all of this. And here I am truly, with all due respect to the proposer, unable to take the impression that we have a fragmented approach to amendments and additions to a very, very important law and without a deeper and more extensive approach to an analysis of what I've been talking about so far. If you just look at the part of the material in which you have an appraisal of the choice of the necessary means, the assessment... The necessary means to implement the law, he says, must provide additional resources in the state budget for the implementation of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What? How much? How? This with all due respect to me is a fairly superficial approach, an irresponsible approach that borders a little with one step in the populist manner and all for pre-election purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37430	The answer to the replica is Agent Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37431	Thank you. My colleagues, look, what you said today in the 21st century should begin to think that we would achieve these motives and goals that make the law run, I said again, it's not, it's not, we fully support it, but it should be approached, in my opinion, with far greater ambitions. Today we live in a time of digitisation, so we should look for far more resources to achieve this, to create a plan and a program of digitisation and archival building, and then we would avoid these questions that have to go to the archive already some of these funds could be available on the Internet or far more accessible than it will be, and assuming this is the case. In this regard, I said only in the indications should one new law on archives which would provide for items of digitisation of an archival building with one systematic plan and where priorities and political and economic and other needs would then be determined on the basis of this plan. Let's not forget, the archives 5, 6 centuries ago were what we call the information system today and today if we went into the digitization of everything we have archives not only to cost but by certain estimates could be a profitable, clear thing, after a certain time. Unfortunately, in these frameworks, those who propose this law do not open the space at all to talk about it, let alone introduce a modern way of thinking and modern solutions in the archives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37432	Representative Miro Bulj has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37433	Thank you very much, President. Every victim deserves to be plighted and every crime is condemned, in particular this is being called upon by the European Council to do so, all totalitarian regimes, communist, fascist and Nazi. Therefore, this law after 27 years of free Croatia i.e. The struggle for freedom of 5 years of the Homeland War has come the time that these structures that have delegated and managed lives and deaths during the communists to come out and, in particular, that truth because of the victims of these families, such as in the case of the Djurkovic family who simply could not get key information, essential evidence in the case of Germany when the trial meant Perkovic. The services of that time have committed great crimes against people. We have a number of caves where people, children were dumped afterwards, so we're talking after World War II until the '90s without it, without any trial, but only because they were either Croats or some other nationality, and they didn't agree with that totalitarian regime. If he deserves the truth, the family of Sevo, Bruno Busic. If people who had to flee to immigration deserve to be killed as dogs just because they wanted a free and independent Republic of Croatia. And these people are basically the cornerstone of the modern Croatian state. They promoted and wore a banner of independent free Republic of Croatia, while people from that time entered and stayed in Croatia in the system well networked and therefore we do not have the archive open until today, although the only and the Croatian state, few others did not open the archive of that time. And this is for the truth. That's a very important truth. And we see that many tycoons created their own empires, and that they and their families were deeply connected to that system and regime, and that today here we see and hold the entire economic system have led to collapse. And these victims of those people who are in the time after World War II to free Croatia to their victims, by their sacrifice they deserve that truth. Now these people are basically ruling Croatia, and in fact they deserve to come out. Here is a personal question why 25, 27 years from the 1990s to the present, we will take the Homeland War as war, that the Tribal of Community created an independent Republic of Croatia on wings and sons and Ustashas and partisans and all together. But why hide criminals? That's the basic question. It's 20 years old, 22 years old, these archives aren't open. Of course, the triba is allowed to be trained to see the public, to come out historians, and of course there are numerous sites of Croatian martyrs who have remained underground. This was the MOST's proposal and after 25 years, 27 years of an independent Republic of Croatia, and I hope it will pass if everything that is going on is not very expensive because of the archives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37434	The replica was first reported by Agent Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37435	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, we agree on this, on the motive and reason why these archives should be opened. But I'd like to warn you of something I said in this debate. Just one piece of information. What we call the UDBA is more liquidated in Europe and the world from the 1960s to the 1980s than the KGB or any other terrorist organisation. But we must be aware that key decision-making centres for this type of repression were in Belgrade. I am not saying that these republican parties were not involved, but were key ones in Belgrade and we must be aware that then we must both make efforts and demands and obligations to open these archives up and simply set up. That's one thing. On the other hand, what you said about the availability of that data, I'd just like to remind you here that the historian is Dr. Franjo Tudjman was sentenced in prison for three years because he presented the amount of victims in Jasenovac officially collected from institutions in the former Yugoslavia. Therefore, this incarceration is something that needs to be opened, but you should also take care of who you will then address the responsibilities for individual crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37436	Representative Miro Bulj's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37437	I'd agree most of the time, and I'd like to have a discussion, but I've got to get on the board, so I apologize to everyone who's been giving the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37438	A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37439	Dear Vice President, here comes my colleague Bulj. I only have what I want to point out here, so it's what's been through the whole debate, and I'll do it later. Neither does the government's bill specifically states, I don't know if you've seen the bill at all, does the SKH or anything else. So, we are listed as Slovenia's socio-political organisation and that includes everything. So, and the government didn't state it in its bill of law. My colleague Jelkovac is talking about the fact that they're not insured, no asset assessment has been made. So neither did the government's bill of law make an assessment of the funds, it's a whole law that doesn't just mean this narrow part. And there are funds if we're going to open archives, if it's the government's desire to open archives, the funds are even bigger. So I don't know if you're even familiar with what the government is proposing, what we're proposing as a MOST club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37440	Representative Angelko Strick called for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37441	President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, listening to the debate here, I really don't have any problem opening the archives of the former state and the Communist Party because no one was a member of my family, let alone a former state official at the level of the local community. So no one. And I really don't have any problems with that. Then if we talk about Croatianism, then the most Croatian municipality is Visko, which if we take the number of political prisoners from the population has the highest percentage of political prisoners. Namely, the last major case in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia against Croats has just been against Croats in the area of the municipality High Case... And now none of my fellow citizens need to get a bus on their chests with great Croatianism, unlike some of whom every other sentence is their great Croatianism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37442	Representative Josip Krizanic reported on the individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37443	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. My debate will be in something different than it has been so far and I will try to speak exclusively about the text of the draft law without politicizing. The 1997 Law on Archive materials and archives requires no doubt a change, as detected by the Ministry of Culture. The most important reasons that impose the need for full lawmaking are better quality protection of materials in the creator's main documentation created in electronic form, which has been largely out of the protection system so far. More precisely defined deadlines, the acquisition of materials, but also the obligation of the creator to supply the list of materials to the competent archive as soon as possible from the creation of the materials, the clear definition of the dates of availability with the harmonisation of the Archive Law with the relevant provisions of other laws, the Law on the right to access to information, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the establishment of the organisational structure of the public archive service, the state archives, the archives of the JLS and the regional self-government and the special archives defining the relationship to private archive material and its holders, etc. In order to bring about more quality emphasis, the entire solutions of the Ministry of Culture with the active participation of the professional archivist community developed and placed 7.4. on the public debate of the draft proposal on archival materials and archives. Today, however, we also have a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive materials and archives of the Club of Representatives of MOST. Compared to the first version of the proposal, it has been significantly improved, above all in better quality provisions concerning the availability of archive material, as well as the time-limit for the availability of non-essential data of the victim. In my first reading, I replicated it, and it was accepted, and I want to thank you for that, although you said that nothing was changed, the opening of personal health data was foreseen for 40 years from the date of creation, and now you have put 70 which is much better quality and herbs. First of all, I think about personal data relating to health and sex life, for example. A person who was 15 or 16 years old with a mental condition or a person who had an abortion at that age would not have been good if it had been made public already with 50 years of her life as previously predicted. However, the question is now, although it has been moved to 70 years, does such health data have to be publicly available and to whom are they important? However, the main problem of this proposal is the problem of archives and archival activity, not seeing the complexity of this activity, as well as the reality in which archival institutions operate. In fact, the result of insufficient social concern is the fact that most archives today do not have free archive stores, a lack of professional staff is expressed. That is why certain provisions proposed by this law will have to be thoroughly developed by a new whole law after entering the measure itself. I want to make it very clear that my party HDZ and I personally do not have any problems with that, and my Striker has never been in any of my own in any kind of marriage, not to the Partisans, not to have any problems with it, but we are in favour of the fact that the archives are being opened particularly soon to totalitarian regimes, and therefore we will also support this law. But let me still have a few observations. In the area of my constituency, there are two archives, the State Archives in Varazdin and the State Archives for Međimurje. According to Article 14 of this Law, the State Archives in Varazdin should take over from the creators and holders of their jurisdiction, which is the Varazdin County, Krapina-Zagorska and half of Koprivnica-Cristeva County, within six months of the entry of this law. The state archive for Međimurje should take over two thousand long meters from the creators of archive material owners. None of these two archives have... capacity. The state archive in Varazdin has since then received the DUUDI building of 4,800 square meters, which would allow the acquisition of materials for the next five decades, but for its editing and equipment, 35 to 40 million kuna should be provided. Even if these funds and adaptations and equipment are provided tomorrow, it cannot be done within six months, let alone take over the archive material in that space. Similar situation is elsewhere in the country, the State Archives in Slavonski Brod should take over two thousand long meters of archive material, and not have free storage facilities at all. The 2009 survey identified 12 of the 17 regional state archives with no free storage facilities for the necessary download of archive material from creators and holders. According to the latest data, in March 2017, according to the provisions of this law, 30 thousand long meters of archive material should be taken over within six months, the question is which space and with which people? At the same time, archives that will have to take on more significant quantities of archive material will need additional editing and processing of this material so that it can not be made available immediately after download. Article 1 of the Law provides for the obligation of creators and holders to hand over the archive material to the competent archive after 30 years as well as the obligation of the archives to download the archive material. However, as I have already mentioned, a significant number of regional and state archives do not have the said storage facilities, so accepting such a provision imposed the need to provide significant resources, space for work and... according to the Law on Archival Materials of Article 52 of the Labour and Storage Space of the Regional State Archives, the cities in which the archive has its seat. Article 8 allows users to multiply the archive records independently by means of their own manual technical means without any restrictions. It should be more precise to define what these are and what technical means they are. which may not damage archival construction, e.g. the use of a camera with flashes for light-sensitive materials. In addition, it should be considered whether restrictions should be imposed on the amount of material of a particular unit which the user may record. For all of this, I do not think that it should have gone into partial amendments to the laws that will put tasks in front of the archival service in the Republic of Croatia that they will not be able to carry out. The draft law on archive materials and archives prepared by the Ministry of Culture provides complete solutions. In addition, Article 48 provides for the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draw up a national plan for the development of archival activities within 12 months of the adoption of the law setting out measures, deadlines and conditions for further development of archival activity in accordance with the objectives and provisions of the law. So a guess for the realization of what the law signs. Without a purely concrete strategy for the development of the archival service, ensuring the necessary storage space, as well as human resources, the adoption of legal provisions that are not enforceable in my opinion will be difficult to live up to. I propose these suggestions for a rational, peaceful adoption of a full law on professional and scientific knowledge so that it does not happen to us as it did to our colleagues 30 years ago when the Assembly of the SR of Croatia concluded the following on the basis of information on the implementation of the law on the protection of archival buildings and archives in SR Croatia in 1986. Now listen. In the framework of the SR Croatia budget, the trend achieved in 1985 with regard to more appropriate treatment of the archival service, which is of particular social interest in order to finally meet the conditions for compliance with Article 10. The law on the protection of archival buildings and archives provides for the real necessary financial resources to restore the law of the established basic and mandatory activity of the archive. It will only create opportunities for archives to carry out their legal obligations and not question the safety of the archive building as part of the heritage of the National People's Republic of Croatia and the material position of workers, an archive that is increasingly at risk. Secondly, the lack of storage space is one of the most difficult problems of the archival service in the Republic of Croatia that paralyzes and prevents the implementation of the law of the established system of protection of archival construction. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm telling you this because these were conclusions and the rest are just a dead letter on paper. Even today the archives are located in more or less the same spaces, honoring exceptions and where they were two or three decades before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37444	Representative Davor Romic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Križanić, here, you asked a question about '86. A year ago, you asked a question about history and the time when it happened and you said that we haven't actually done much since. I'll just say a few situations and you and I have been sitting almost in different places. In the 7th meeting of the Parliament you sat exactly in that same place and I had my first official performance here in this third chair. He was the choice of the new government of the Republic of Croatia and me at that time as a minister. For the first time, I entered this assembly and listened to the debate. I spent 13.5 hours waiting for the new government of the Republic of Croatia to vote. In those 13 hours sitting in different places on both left and right, there were charges that lasted for hours and times, counting, how many Ustashas, how many partisans, on one side and on the other. Here is not a question of the law here is a matter of time before we end this time and when we will provide our children with a clean future and end in history. Secondly, it's very important, today it's being asked as the main question I see from your side and the question of money. Is 30 million, did you have 30 million kuna in your county, if we have 70, a little bid. But I would ask you how much in these years of unsuspecting money spent, how much in these years of painted tunnels, how much money has ended in these years that got out of the country where they ended up and today the main thesis is whether money is important and how much money should be provided, not here is just a matter of intent, whether it wants to get rid of it or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37446	Thank you. Replicate reply by representative Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37447	I wanted to say for hasty we don't repeat the mistakes our predecessors made 30 years ago because they passed the same laws, they made them rashly without a previous plan and analysis. When you talk about funds, I agree that it must not be the only argument and the main reason and the Ustashas and the Partisans you know that I never discussed or will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37448	Representative Nikola Grmoi will give the final word on behalf of the motionor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37449	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I didn't want to report much in replicas, but apparently HDZ representatives are not familiar with the government's bill of law if they say our law doesn't know unspeakable, then it's only the government's law. I think we are very good at working on this bill, supported by the lawyer Pavlovic, who defended the Djorekovic family to some HDZ representatives, Zlatko Hasanbegovic and others who claim that this bill is very good. He's now reporting from the HDZ Representatives' Club that he's got a lot of loose ends. Besides, I heard that the culture minister had a press release saying it wasn't true that she was throwing a cell phone at the Ministry of Culture. I'm ready for a polygraph test, and I have a witness. So the minister threw away her cell phone, and my phone hit me. I stayed calm. Afterwards, the secretary of state sweared at the ministry after the minister left. Here's what you're witnessing, and you know it well. So, I'm ready for the test. And here's if the minister claims it wasn't like that we're going to a polygraph test together. As regards the observation of the draft law on archive material, there is an entirely arbitrary definition of key concepts, for example the concept of documentary and archival material, which enables complete arbitration of the determination of archival material, and thus enable the destruction of original archival material by discretionary assessment, in which it is particularly unclear who, and under what criteria, how and under what criteria does the law conduct evaluation, separation, elimination, selection of archive material from documentary material. Special definition of documentary and archive material exclusively as information, and not as things, documents, documents, information holders allow for any limited manipulation and permanent loss of part of the relevant information when converting material from one form to another. A vague definition of the concept of the creation of public archive material, which binds the availability or start of the availability deadlines. Legalizing the destruction of the original archive material, where the destruction of the original archive material produced after the 1990s is allowed without any criteria completely arbitrarily and without any restrictions. See Article 321. The criterion of excavating and destroying already downloaded archival material is determined by law rather than by law. Therefore, by means of a sublegal or general act and without parliamentary control, the prescribing of instructive non-binding deadlines for the handover of public archive material. Legalising the full arbitration of the availability of classified archive material in such a way that classification can be extended indefinitely and beyond the availability deadlines and without any criteria and limitations. That bill you're talking about and saying it's fixed. Enabling the handover of the original public archive material to private legal persons without a time limit and without making copies of such material. The time limits for the availability of archive material to the inaccessible public shall be determined by the holder without any criteria, not by law. Legalising already in practice the parafiscal burdens involved in the use of archival material without clear criteria and introducing the concept of revenue from archival activity. Unnecessarily and illegally collect personal data from users when using archive material and contrary to the public principle of archive and archive material. Introducing the possibility of arbitral shortness of time access to the material due to the state of the material. Resolve requests for use of materials within a reasonable period of time without any definition, which would mean a reasonable period of time, thereby denying the user the right to appeal. The issue of a solution to refuse to apply for the use of archive material only at the specific request of the user is the same restriction of the right to appeal. Applying obligations to private archive material holders without compensation of the costs of meeting those obligations. The introduction of an archive of regional and local self-government in the system of public archives making it significantly difficult for users to access public archive material and for financing the costs of archival activity in that part to transfer to counties, cities and municipalities. The unclear role of existing regional state archives after the introduction of an archive of regional and local self-government into the system of public archives. The establishment of public archives by other public authorities other than the Republic of Croatia and units of regional and local self-government without any criteria, clear purposes and their relationship with other public archives. These are all the problems of the bill. Converting so far's letters to archives in composition. A completely unclear organisational structure of public archives and a completely non-critical distinction between the competences of individual bodies of the public archives director, board of directors, expert council, and inconsistency with the Law on Institutions and the Labour Act. The Governing Council and the composition of the Governing Council. Privileges of competence for professional supervision of the work of the Croatian State Archives of the Ministry of Culture which is not an expert body. Excessive discretionary powers of the Minister of Culture in the activities of the public archives. And final commentary, the excessive generality of the law as a consequence that the important aspects of the regulation of this matter are left to sublegal acts on which the Parliament, as a legislator, has no control whatsoever. The draft also abounds, meaning abounds in legal indetermination, is inconsistencies with the General Administrative Procedure Act and other laws. It is a proposal from the Ministry of Culture which is only submitted to perform a maneuver that has not been prepared seriously as we have worked on our bill of law that defines the truth of a narrow area and defines it in a good way. And this bill will make all the archives from that communist period fully available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37450	Agent Tudjman called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37451	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this is a precedent for what my colleague Grmoy would say. For the first time in five years, someone who defends one law is not talking about his proposal, but is talking about another proposal that needs to appear before the Croatian Parliament by implying or imputing that the MPs will support it, that is, such a proposal. Here is why it is so that I can illustrate it with a very simple example of what Mr. Križanec said here and ask what will be done by the director of the archives of Varazdin and the Međimurje archive that must take over five thousand meters of archive building, this other two thousand meters, when this law comes into force? They will pay the fine because they will not be able to respond to requests, for example we did not get an answer. In order not to pay for the clear thing, it is clear to expect that he will resign himself, but also that others will not be appointed or want to assume the office of director because he will be in a situation that he will not be able to fulfil the obligations prescribed by the law. You didn't say that, let alone give an answer and that's one of the problems with your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37452	Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37453	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My esteemed colleague, Grumo, and here in this closing statement, you've helped me to understand some things better, I understand better. We can probably all agree here that archival structure, property and ownership of the Republic of Croatia and that the Republic of Croatia must have certain concerns about it. The problems that arise here, and not only the problems in the archival structure, the problems are in all segments of society, let's just take our grantovnica, so we have an unsettled state, either according to the way the classifications of individual data were produced through history, either at locations or where they were created. This must be a complex problem, and it needs to be solved. You've warned of the law so far that I've realized what it was about archival structure and the law that will be pointed out by the government, and you've pointed out that there are many indiscretions, many things that are not clear. In this regard, I believe that this legal solution, although HDZ colleagues believe it is partial, is not sufficiently detailed, should be supported unless there are certain concerns about the fact that these solutions are not good. And the argument that only because the partial solutions are no longer my point and in that sense I will certainly support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37454	This concludes the debate. We'll vote. I'm really sorry. Representative Bulj, you have the possibility of writing it down, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37455	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to ask you for a moment. I see that this is not a Communist party, and the government thought it was a Communist party. So can you explain whether at this stage the opening of the archives is being done because it is listed as a social political organisation that includes what it is and means the communist party and the rest, and is that in the government's proposal? And one very interesting thing for you is how hard it is that this archive came as a law that HRT 4 also interrupted the transfer of this session and that counterpart Bacic there had been holding for an hour some monologues, and that this topic didn't matter to them? How important it is to block the public from seeing this debate, means that with this topic we essentially hit what was meant 27 years ago in the essence of the problem, that we should insist on opening the archives. And it may be a shame that those on HRT did not allow our citizens to do long-awaited things after a long time because of our future like this archive that isn't on HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37456	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37457	Well, dear fellow Bull, I must admit I'm very surprised right now with this information. It shows that this morning I was at the first when I said that we have shaken the entire system, that all those who are the creators of this chaos that they do not want to open the archives, that they are architects of everything Seks, Bozinović, Valentić, Gregurić that is the team that protected Ivica Todorovic. And these archives when a colleague of Vrdoljak says that we should not deal with the past they are very much connected to this. And it's a shame that we here in the Croatian Parliament that the president of the HDZ Club gives an interview for HRT for half an hour while we discuss here. So much for respecting the Croatian Parliament, so much for respecting this institution, and so much for fear, you mentioned some owls, birds and so on, so much for the fear of those who fear this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37458	I'm closing this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The following is the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on archive materials and archives, second reading, P.Z. No. 104. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37460	Your Honor. The bridge club of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37461	First Amendment, I apologize to the representative of the bush. The first amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37462	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37463	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2. The amendment and the No. 2 becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37464	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37465	This and the third amendment become an integral part of the final draft law. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on archive material and archives. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 94 for, 7 abstentions and no votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive Papers and Archives, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37468	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow MPs and fellow MPs. We have a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian National Bank. The aim of this law is to enable the State Audit to enter the CNB and not only because of the non-transparent spending of money and bad business, but to find out once what exactly the CNB is doing, since it turns out that every key problem that happens in this country, which we have witnessed in recent days is not really the responsibility of the CNB, is not in their jurisdiction and they simply seem to live in another galaxy. We think it's really time that it's really time that we all know exactly what the CNB is doing, and we can only do it so that the state's audit goes into the CNB. For this reason, this law regulates the status, position, objective, tasks and structure of the CNB, the relationship of the CNB with the Republic of Croatia to credit institutions, international institutions and organisations and bodies of the EU institutions, tasks and responsibilities of the CNB from the date of accession of the EU Republic of Croatia and after the introduction of the euro as an official monetary unit into the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the business of the CNB, after the economic crisis and a series of other circumstances, different solutions are found to help increase the transparency of central banks' operations and thus to strengthen accountability. However, although a series of measures strengthens the independence of central banks in accordance with EU law and other relevant rules, it is precisely different mechanisms aimed at increasing transparency that enable the public to see central banks and spend their resources under the applicable rules. According to studies conducted, although it is very high on the CNB scale, the worst at the level of transparency among the central banks of the countries of southern Europe where Albania, BIH, Macedonia, Malta and Slovenia are. Following the above, several amendments are proposed. Supplement to the CNB Act. It is proposed to carry out an independent external audit and to allow the state audit to be carried out in accordance with Article 62 of the law in force. The law therefore clearly lays down what is considered to be such an audit with respect to the EU legal framework applicable to the operation of central banks and without prejudice to the principle of institutional independence referred to in Article 130. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and Article 7 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks. This proposal for a law took into account that the scope of the control must be clearly established by the legal framework, it must be without prejudice to the tasks of the examination of all accounts and accounts of the central bank by an independent external auditor and in accordance with the principle of institutional independence. We note that the legislative framework for the work of the State Audit Office will also change and the Law on the State Audit Office will set out the power to carry out the audit of the business of the CNB. The government has adopted an opinion not to discuss this final proposal for the CNB law in the Assembly on the basis of the need for the opinion of the European Central Bank, which we already have two opinions that are public and all in the materials have a link to those opinions. I don't think we need a third opinion from the European Central Bank to actually find out what the CNB is doing in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37469	Representative Tomislav Zhagar, reporting for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37470	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Ninčević-Lesandric, so what got me caught up in the eye and I think it's most important in this part of your debate when you're actually talking about what the role of the CNB is and what the CNB has been doing all these years. If we observe their mission as they define it, it's maintaining price stability. On one occasion, I said that price stability can be observed and that on average we say that prices are stable and that certain prices, especially those related to the quality of life of the poorest layer, are greatly increased and the most expensive ones are slightly lower. Well, then we have some kind of stability. Let me put it this way. Me and my colleague, the coat of arms, we're on average pretty tall people. And that's why it's very important. If we remember the loans approved by the Swiss French business banks, which offered to the citizens and in fact the only credit that was having any reasonable interest, then we see that the CNB did almost nothing but eventually the Croatian Parliament had to pass a law at that time to protect these people. On the other hand, what I can see is that the CNB has been doing all the time is just holding a course, a stable exchange rate of kuna precisely because of this task as if in some way it had encouraged the debt, the consumer society to be in charge. And the third thing I see, it kind of seems to me that when the tourist season comes, then the CNB decreases the rate of the euro, when it passes, it increases it and it's kind of things that we see the CNB doing. We don't really see anything else about it. And that's why I think the entry of the audit is very important that at least that way then we see if the CNB in those segments actually did anything because it has its independence and it's hard to get that data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37471	Reply to the replica of MP Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37472	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Žagar, precisely why MOST and has made a proposal for a state audit to enter the CNB that we all actually see what the CNB is doing once and in what way. Because it seems to me that basically their business comes down to their private ownership and that no one has the right to have any insight into everything that is their jurisdiction because we don't know what it is today because whenever the problem arises, the CNB disappears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37473	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37474	And in the past term, MOST had a huge problem with the revision of the business of the CNB, so the ex-wives of those officials upstairs in Brussels were caught, so they wanted to create pressure, so that the CNB had until now been managed by the least national bank. The only thing she's made possible is that they have the possibility of having salaries we don't know how much they want, they hire whoever they want, they go to shoot down the fish and the wine the most expensive, they do whatever they want to be. They didn't exactly resist the sale of gold, they didn't resist because of what I had raised and a criminal application, which is that financial stability has been compromised because they haven't done their job to not raise the Agrokor loan of 10 billion kuna without cover. So they made it possible, in fact everything is except the Croatian National Bank. It's a pro-European institution, a Brussels-based institution that can't do anything obediently. And we as a Parliament have no influence over them as other institutions. We don't even have a chance to get a review report on their business. And by this law, I'm sorry, they're the loudest, most noisy Professor. Lovrinović. Because in the last government, we the MOST's were standing up here, leaving the sessions, so what doesn't say two words, or maybe he's in negotiations right now. I don't know where he is with those bristles right now. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37475	Replicate response, MP Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37476	Comrade Bulj, I'm actually agreeing with you and I'd just like to repeat more. My colleague Bulj, I actually agree with you and I would just like to wrap it up once more if it were right, had it not been for the Club of Representatives of MOST and had been acted in the government's view because the government is asking that this topic be not discussed in the Assembly as well as the entry of the State Audit into the Croatian National Bank would never be in the assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37477	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I can see they're gone, the government's representative who can explain the government's opinion doesn't either. I'm opening a debate with this. Since there is no representative of Ivan Vilibor Sinčić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Representatives to participate in the debate, MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37478	The MOST Club, as a promoter and in the past term, has been calling for the CNB to be equal with all other institutions that mean the State Audit, reports it gives us here in Parliament. That wasn't an act until now. It is meant to be an institution that has not responded to anyone in its business and with this club MOST independent lists will accept this proposal and we expect that it will be accepted by all fellow parliamentary representatives. And I note once again that I am sorry that this debate did not involve those who are the most thunderous and who have talked all the time on behalf of their clubs and individually about the problem of the Croatian National Bank, the functioning of the Croatian National Bank. And I hope they get involved and accept this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37479	To participate in the debate, the Club of Representatives has also signed up to change Croatia for which it does not exist, and afterwards for individual participation in the discussion Miro Bulj. Future Representative Miro Bulj will you be at an individual debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37480	Thank you very much. Here we come to what the Most was saying, basically what he gave as a guarantee. In the past term, as I said on behalf of the club MOST insisted that the CNB be an equal institution in business with all institutions in the Republic of Croatia, public institutions. But simply under pressure from some of the Brussels officials tried to influence the Most, but failed. Here's MOST gave its law that the Croatian National Bank behaves in accordance with the regulations of Croatia, not Brussels, which many of our officials of Brussels would like to see happen. The CNB as an institution has huge costs, which is not only on its salaries, on receiving without any criteria, but from lobsters to the most expensive food to red carpets that spill across the floor in front of them, millions of kunas invest in these things that are essentially in this difficult situation unimaginable to ordinary citizens. And of course I'll be a member of the Most Club, i.e. and as an individual to support this law and to this end a great disappointment in me which did not include for what other clubs were paid for, and mainly those who were the most globular or they fell under the influence of Brussels. It is now a question, but I sincerely hope and expect that we will put the CNB in the framework of the laws for what MOST has given as a guarantee and that we will insist on it and that the people will support us in this, and that ultimately, we, our CNB, will literally be the Croatian National Bank, and not from any of the Brussels officials, a variety of tycoons that are eligible to use the bonds without cover in billions of kunas and to destabilise Croatia's financial stability both economically and at all, the survival of Croatia as a state of stable and independent state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37481	Replica response, replica by the representatives of the Grumoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37482	Dear President, dear colleague Bulj, yes, and I wish that there were fellow MPs here, but here we are now discussing this and this will come to a vote, and then we will see if those who talk about Croatia should not receive any letters and dispatches from Brussels, but Croatia must be a sovereign state. We each were elected by Croatian citizens here and we are asking for the revision to enter the CNB. I don't know, I think you read in your first reading what everything there is spent on downed fish, on a variety of expensive wines, to spend money on purposelessly. The question is, what's going on out there? But here's a chance for the final revision to enter the CNB. We don't care that Governor Vujcic went to Brussels and asked his colleagues there to send a letter and say that we should not interfere in the independence of the CNB. We don't interfere with the independence of the CNB, we just want Mr. Vujcic's audit and all those who are trying to protect him here and the government, because she didn't want this point to come to the agenda, and we're going to keep going on with everything we've been on. Transparency in business as we have done transparently in the municipalities and cities that we have taken over, as we have paid back our debts, so we want all those who run Croatian institutions to behave responsibly, as well as the CNB. Although Governor Vujčić probably cares more about what they think in Brussels than we think in the Croatian Parliament. What we are saying here is why he has given us the mandate of the Croatian people and we are the only ones who answer to them both to our conscience and to our dear God and to no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37483	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37484	Dear Grmoy, that 40 million kuna would be spent on meals and drinks and on various bales in which to participate among others and tycoons from TEDschko, Todorovic, sons, our prime ministers, and the friendly lines they enjoyed. But here's what happened to MOST and MOST just looking for what should be normal in every sovereign state to be audited as well as in other state institutions. Nothing new, and you see how much halabuka has gone up, even Brussels has been activated it has to go to Brussels to see its bosses upstairs so that no one will happen to see how much they have costs and how they're scurrying with these so far, I won't tell people who are rulers I won't tell those who ruled the Croatian state if they served themselves and not the people. And the true MOST will continue to fight for those who sent him to this House, which are Croatian citizens who have given us confidence and we will not stop at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37485	I'm sorry, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37486	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Now, even though we're a little bit here in the assembly, I'd like to highlight what my colleague Bull said. Often, colleagues here have said in the Assembly that there is only God above this institution. I believe that. And it's really very little and regrettable that in this case it shows itself precisely that there seem to be other interests above this institution. I am often in my life, and I will do it again now, only in front of my father, I put my head down, you know, in front of nobody else, not in front of Todorovic, not in front of any interested group. And I'm glad to be here today with you and to discuss this. The Croatian Parliament is sacred, I am glad to be here, I was sent here by the people, chosen and pleased to represent them. It's a shame, fellow Bull. It's a shame today. But let the Croatian people see, for those ideals, everything we've said should be pawned and I think that this law in that sense will shed light on some things. Some fear that the situation may be enlightened, that it may come to the truth, that the previous law has shown, that some fear. I'm not afraid of anything, I believe neither you nor these colleagues and colleagues who are here so let the truth come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37487	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37488	Croatian MPs i.e. MPs in this House, as you have said, are the only God above this House, and they only have to answer to it, and that is what we stand for, and so we will continue to answer to the only people and to God. Unfortunately, this institution in which people send their representatives so humiliated the political elites in the last 25 years that they have simply been the wavers of their hands, we see today about this most important topic, regardless of just this and the archives, Agrokor and this topic about the National Bank of course affecting the Government and the Executive Law and everything that has come, the subscription to HRT, the many laws that will now go into the procedure they simply do not show interest, but simply the weighters of the hands are trying to trade. We will continue our journey is the only thing we answer and we are not... for this chair, the only one we answer to is like I told the people and God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37489	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break from an hour and 10 minutes to 15.00 hours today when we continue to work and chair. It's a 13,50 o'clock meeting. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Croatian National Bank, second reading, P.Z. No. Nine. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by a representative of Marin Škibola. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Representative Panenic. Amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37491	The amendment is not accepted because no opinion has been requested from the European Central Bank under the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37492	Amendment number, sorry. Is the proposing representative willing to take the floor or are you asking for a vote? That's how you give up the amendment. [[Invader Panenić: No.]] Second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37493	For the same reason, no amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37494	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? You're giving up the amendment? Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 17 votes for, 8 abstentions and 68 votes against, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank has not been passed. Congratulations! [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The next item is: - Final draft law supplementing the Law on Croatian Television, second reading, P.Z. No. 10 The proposer shall be the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists pursuant to Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 190. Rules of Procedure. The material was delivered to the boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The government delivered an opinion and submitted amendments. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media had no quorum. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to give an additional explanation? Agent Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37496	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This bill also has a significant impact on what we currently have in Croatia because those who will be damaged by this bill are directly involved in this destabilization plan for Croatia, moving MOST from the government to cover up crime in Agrokor. I am talking, of course, about Hanza Meda, about Mr. Hanžekovic, who, with this bill, will be left without a million kunas that he has so far taken over the back of Croatian citizens who had to pay the commissions to lawyers and public notaries. This gentleman, or his media house, was directly involved in this plan. Let's remember the cover, we got the leader, we got the leader, we got the leader, they looked the same as the cover of the Free and Morning List. These two daily lists have been running a fierce, sharp campaign against MOST for months now, using lies, diphamping, and all others just to stop us in this intention. And here, Prime Minister Plenkovic brought down the government, that so-called. The leader who now sees as Vice President Reiner admits he doesn't have a majority while he's on that press after he's done it claims to have a majority, now Vice President Reiner says he doesn't have a majority. And, of course, to justify all this, the media is needed, Mr. Hanžekovic is needed. I hope that when this law comes on the agenda, the citizens will watch us, you too will be watched by colleagues Reiner, Vice President Reiner and all colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament who will vote and whether it will be for Croatian citizens or for Hanžekovic. The Croatian Radio Television Act regulates HRT status as a public service, function activity, content of public services, financing, management, control and mode of work. The law on HRT also set the level of monthly fee paid to HRT as a type of income of HRT. The current amount of tax 80 kuna and here we insisted on a reduction. We will see what happens depending on the situation here in the Croatian Parliament. Given the difficult social situation of a large number of citizens and the difficult conditions of business of companies, institutions and other legal or other persons, especially in the light of an extremely large number of blocked citizens. It is estimated that all state public authorities should contribute to facilitating the situation, including HRT as a public service. The socially insensitive business of HRT as a public service also indicates the procedure for forced payment of a monthly fee, which has not been specifically prescribed by the HRT Act so far, but has been implemented and implemented through the Institute of Conduct on the basis of a credible instrument governed by the Implementing Law. In such a course as I said, the payment bonds of the monthly fee are burdened by paying the legal services of HRT, and by paying the public notebooks leading that type of executive procedure. It is clear that because of the unified mass treatment and the existence of these adapted computer programmes, there was no real need to hire lawyers and pay their professional services, VAT on these services and material costs. All these costs eventually fell on the burden of paying the monthly fee, so our citizens. With this procedure, HRT favored Hanžekovic, favored the man who has the media empire. Of course, it was also appropriate for political parties, meaning HDZ and SDP so that Hanžekovic, through his media empire, could glorify and talk and write about how we have these or those leaders, and the leaders were watching each other. It should be mentioned here that, on behalf of HRT, about 110 thousand executions are launched annually in the Republic of Croatia for the charge of unpaid HRT fees, and in the name of the costs of lawyers representing HRT and public notebooks in these procedures, at least 35 million kunas are charged to citizens. Therefore, it is estimated that the treatment in the compulsory charge of the monthly fee should be explicitly regulated by this law in such a way as not only to exempt applicants from the obligation to bear legal costs except in the case of special authorisation of the founder, but also public note costs which were otherwise justified in the current system of charges. Thus, in the future, in the future, the forced payment of the monthly fee will be carried out by the HRT itself by sending the most two written notices and then by issuing payment orders as sui generis of the Croatian Institute for the Payment of Monthly Taxes. In this way, both legal and public record costs will be avoided, and in the event that no timely objection is brought against that order for payment which is contested by this order for payment of the power of the law is given the status of an executive document. With such an executive correction, HRT will be able to seek enforcement in the usual manner prescribed by the Implementing Law, which will be in conformity with both the Implementing Law and the Implementing Act. In the event of a timely complaint, the HRT will be authorised to file a case against the court, with the relevant provision on the limitation of the HRT being prompted to initiate the lawsuit as soon as possible in order to avoid the accumulation of tight interest. It is understood that HRT will be entitled to professional legal services in regular court proceedings. The payment obligations of the monthly fee will continue to encourage timely payment of their legal obligations by prescribing a flat-rate additional fee of 100 kuna to be charged by HRT in the event of the issue of payment orders. However, this remains significantly less than the current costs of lawyers and public notebooks. Therefore, on the basis of these additional charges, HRT will be able to count on a certain increase in revenue compared to the present situation, while at the same time paying bonds the monthly fee will be less than the current cumulative legal costs and public records costs. Finally, as the monthly tax is public revenue, a ban on the concession of those incomes is imposed on third parties without the approval of the founders. This law means to regulate the following issues: sending notices prior to the payment of a monthly fee, and the content of the notice, the content of payment orders as a commitment instrument and as potential executive documents, delivery of a payment order, the possibility of filing a complaint against orders and the possibility of filing an action against HRT, the status of the order as payment, payment as executive documents and the procedure for abolishing the certificate of execution, the possibility of transfer of requests for monthly fees and the possibility of using payment services by HRT, giving information to HRT and the exemption from payment of fees. In the light of the proposal for a law which was adopted in the first reading, a concrete remark has been taken from the debate and a principled objection by the Committee on Legislatives regarding the need for an amendment of the name payment order. It is estimated that insisting on the name of a payment order for this new payment instrument would indeed result in confusion and constitutionally-legal doubtful interference with the regular payment order institute and the Law on a litigation procedure of which this new institute differs significantly from the fact that the public-law body issues it independently for its own benefit. As a result of this significant difference, a language barrier to the payment order laid down in the Law on litigation is also set up, since, unlike him, this new institute does not, in the event of the objection of the debtor, be deemed to be a lawsuit, or, in the case of a court proceedings on the objection of the debtor, retain its continuity of the legal action and does not require that a decision be taken to maintain it in force or to abolish it, but, in its entirety, it decides on the merits of the request of the HRT for the payment of the monthly fee. For all these reasons, a language distinction has been made in a way that calls this new institute a payment order. It is also noted that the HRT should give more flexibility in the payment process in such a way that it assesses on its own whether it is necessary in a specific case before issuing a payment order to the debtor to send one or two notices. In addition to the fact that the payment procedure under the payment order is carried out in the event of an arrival, and not the claim paid in favour of this statement, the reasons for the purpose and the possibility of adapting the technical capacities and human resources of the HRT to the new arrangement for the collection of the monthly fee are also spoken. An ex post nomotechnical intervention has also been carried out to amend the order of the items which speak of the submission of the objection and enforcement of the payment order, making sure that even at the legal level the possibility of forced payment of the claim against the debtor is referred to as the ultimate means of handling the credentials. According to the earlier text, it is also specified which, in a specific case, means the submission of a timely complaint, the application within eight days of the fact that the subsidiary application of other procedural laws is not prescribed in that part. For the purpose of rounding up the whole of the normative arrangement, it is subsequently assessed that it is also necessary to prescribe that the control of the regularity and legality of the placing of an enforcement certificate is carried out by the competent court in an out-of-party procedure. The subsequent introduction of an exception to the prohibition of the concession of monthly fees to third parties, as well as the removal of the provision of automatic integrity of transfers, prevents objections to the autonomy of the business decision of HRT as a legal entity, and, in the same sense, the possibility for HRT to make exceptions to representation by lawyers in order to remove objections to the unauthorized denial of the right to legal service, and this is what they told us that on this basis, Hanžekovic was threatening to destroy in the Constitutional Court this law. The relevant observations of the Legislative Committee have been adopted to ensure effective data collection for the purpose of the collection of the monthly fee now being carried out by law firms with their capacities and databases, and it is now prescribed to the authorities of the state administration and legal persons with public authority who run the personal data collections and other registers and to lies to companies to provide information to HRT without compensation. In order to remove the ambiguities that occurred in practice, it has been assessed that it is now necessary to explicitly prescribe that HRT is exempt from court and administrative fees in the procedure of charging the monthly fee. The observations of the Legislative Committee concerning the entry into force of this law are hereby adopted. It is therefore necessary to distinguish the time of its entry into force from the time of application of the new arrangement of the monthly fee, as it takes a certain time after the entry into force of this Regulation to allow HRT and other addressees to adapt to this new legal arrangement. Here I expect all the club representatives to support this legislative proposal, perhaps a little while then Hanžekovic will be angry so there will be no cover "We have a leader" but it is time to fight for the citizens, not that through certain media empires we polish our character and work in the editions of Hanza Media I am aware that we will continue to be hit hard. I don't need any ironing, I'm as transparent as I am, citizens can meet me and my colleagues. Let them continue to hit us freely, and for those who need ironing because they've been knocked over, as you said your colleague as golf... before the registration, they need ironing and they need to continue. I expect this bill of ours to get support in this House of Commons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37497	Representative Reiner reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37498	Thank you very much, colleague Petrov. Comrade Grmo, you have injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure. I understand that you're nervous and that you're troubled by things right now, but you don't have to tell the truth, that's one thing. And secondly, you spoke out of the question, so whether we have a majority or not has nothing to do with this topic at all, that's one thing. And the truth is that you said that I said that we have a majority, and I didn't say that we don't have a majority at all, and I said that it's simply not the key at this point, but that it's crucial that there is a majority for the shift of the President of the Parliament, and I never said that we don't have a majority. So what you're saying isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37499	Representative Bulj's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37500	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representative Reiner broke Article 238 did not discuss a subject that was not subject to discussion. I know that in principle his party president had experienced what Mao Zedong had not experienced in Hanza Media so it was nervous and we should not be ironed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37501	Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37502	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, I believe that this legislative proposal, if fellow Members and colleagues adopt it, will help those people not to get into a situation, will indeed remain without their home because of several kunas. It is also a general problem of the entire Executive Act, and in this segment when we talk about HRT which is in a specific position because it is financed from the fee of all citizens who have TV receivers, who, regardless of whether or not they are watching the HRT programme, will then be useful in any case. There's this funny show, I think it's called "DA ministers" when the prime minister wants to set a mandatory military deadline, and his advisors are trying to convince him not to do it, and one of them says so, but it was a referendum, so people said. And he says we'll make a referendum where they'll be against it. To say that for the reason you talk about media, media power, go from my county to local media in the county to state media. The media can really shape it to say that to the public, so if a person wants to disqualify it they will do so very easily because they come from a position of power. And as for this whole issue and everything that's going on in the Republic of Croatia, it would be much better if we respected strategies, we even have a State Digitalisation Office or what's called digital society. You have suggested here, so let Croatia invest, let the state invest in the infrastructure let, today with technology can be very precise, whether I watched that show, as it is called, what your face sounds familiar or did not look at, to that extent can be determined and to the extent people have to pay for the service that has been delivered to them. And not like these rich people who say, "No, they need to be advertised on state television." Let them pay for the work and functioning of state television, pardon public television, should become public. I think it would be a much better model because this is how many people get hurt, simply the poorest layers of society that they want, they don't want to pay, and I can't give up at least to say the luxury of watching television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37503	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37504	The esteemed colleague absolutely agrees with you, so not only must the citizens pay HRT, then even these executions mean these media moguls, and then they get one service that is fully politicized. We had here today a debate on the Law on Archive Paper and Bill Proposal and was excluded from this House which is embarrassing but it is only a policy that continues to be conducted by Katarina Periša Čakarun, let us remember how an informative media service was conducted during the conference. Now again, HRT is in the service of the defence of the prime minister, defending the fact that he lied to the Croatian public and what Vice President Reiner said here now that most are not important. Well, the prime minister assured us that he had a majority and he gave up all these people here, these 15 people that most of them depended on. So this is also the task of public service to objectively inform citizens, not to create a media image that fits the ruling ones. That's why we've always fought and we'll keep fighting, that fight will be hard but we won't give up on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37505	Representative Marko Vučetic reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37506	Here's my colleague, Grmoy, I'd like to use the 15M group's password, which, in the reflection of society, has given one criticism to politicians and said they don't represent us. In these laws that we have adopted today, I see the possibility of establishing other policies that will represent citizens. It is clear that there will necessarily be a change in the public biography of our society and the state and that this biography will change according to the centre where democracy should be founded and that is demos. At times when we kidnap finance from citizens or when their finances are taken from citizens, then it is difficult to say that state and public bodies are in the role of citizens. Then the public policies moved away from that natural center of demos and were increasingly moving towards some other centres, whether it's financial, media, or not I know of any others. So that today's law is not insignificant at all, and this law must not be observed from the situation of today that is quite persuasive, any weakness is short-lived regardless of how it will end. But it certainly won't end with being able to develop tomorrow's strategies. In tomorrow's day, citizens who are not burdened with such impositions should have such actions as they were before the law was applied. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37507	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37508	Your Honor. Dear colleague Vučetic, I absolutely agree with you, this is about the fact that in order to pay for his obligations he imposes an even greater burden on the people, and then to benefit from that, individuals who garner wealth on account of it and on the basis of this wealth, they have weapons with which politicians are kept in check. And then politicians have to do what they expect them to do. Prime Minister Plenkovic is not a leader, he is an unfree man, he is a man controlled by the media, his employers, architects of what happened. We're free people. And when they tell us you're polarizing with the media, so that's freedom, that's the media, I don't want to control the media like some do, I want to polarize with the media and pollemize with them publicly. I don't call an editor when he publishes a title or something, let's change it, let's have a photo shop to make me look better, so I can be what we don't do, we polarize with the media, and that's real freedom, but that's also courage. That's the courage to have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37509	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If they're not here. The Government's representative wishes to further explain the opinion, to explain the amendments. Minister of Culture Nina Obuljen-Kožinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37510	Representatives and MPs. I would like very briefly to explain the government's opinion and the proposed amendments. Therefore, the final proposal for a law supplementing the HRT Act is proposed to amend the procedure for the forced fee of the monthly fee paid to the Croatian citizens, which is issued by the HRT in a way that would impose a payment order to issue the HRT preceding two written notices, thus avoiding both legal and public record costs and following the implementation of this procedure which did not result in the payment of the fee, the HRT would be authorised to file an action against the court in order to re-use the lawyer's services. With regard to the proposed collection procedure as proposed in addition to the law, the Resoring Ministry made a series of objections which warned of certain procedural irregularities in the legal and financial sense which would make such a way of collection in a large degree inconclusive. I would like to emphasise that HRT financing is prescribed in accordance with the Council of Europe's recommendation on the guarantee of public broadcasting independence, which provides for the fee as a means of financing public television in the context of insurance, its independence from any political influence which includes the payment of the fee itself by public broadcasting. In point 5 of the Appendix to this Recommendation, under the heading ‘Independence Guarantee Guidelines for Public Broadcasting’, it is stated that payment of the fee must be made in a way that guarantees the continuity of public broadcasting activities and long-term planning. In this regard, and in order to preserve the independence of public broadcasting and its financial stability following the remarks made by the Ministry of Culture, Finance, the Ministry of Justice, and the representatives of the proposings agreed on amendments that significantly improve the solution contained in the final draft law, and therefore we propose that these amendments be considered and adopted by the Government. What is crucial is that the provisions on two written notices have been deleted since the long-term practice of HRT has been so far to send bonds of three written notices at no cost. Furthermore, the procedure for issuing payment orders specified in respect of the delivery of the effect of the objection, the period of limitation, the suspension of the enforcement clause, and, finally, the issue of entry into force of 1 January should be regulated in order to allow for all procedures to be put in place in time, and in order for the law to be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37511	Representative Tomislav Zhagar said the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37512	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Minister, just one clarification if you can give it to me. You're saying now that the government amendment is going in that direction that HRT doesn't have to send warnings because they've done it before. I need to do it again. So, you said here that the government amendment is going in that direction that HRT doesn't have to send warnings, because he's done it so far. Are you going to say that, that means they're doing it on the basis of their good will. And what if it was wiped out, that they wouldn't do it? I didn't get that very well if you could explain. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37513	Replication response, Minister Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37514	Here's a quick answer. You didn't understand me well, so you'd best look at the amendments in writing. So it's about the obligation to send three warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37515	This is what I'm opening the debate with. How no agent from the Living Wall Club is there. The following participation in the debate should be individual from the representatives of Nenad Stazic, who is also not present, and individual participation in the debate was requested by MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37516	So here's this law about HRT 90,000 people have been blocked. Of course, that's how it's done. The system is enriched and managed by the media processes in Croatia, from the leaders of the big ones who are... They scream headlines, they create perceptions that they're leaders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, they are exclusively servants of those masters who have mastered, so this system is how they wrote to themselves the law through their performances that they can, as a lawyer's office, do so and similar groups of people who actually rule these systems. And of course even Mao Ce-tung doesn't have such headlines that scream about the courage of individuals and great leaders who will be basically their listeners. But with this law, indeed, and what the minister said, 90,000 people will be doing a lot, much less doing it, that whole process. And basically, that money will remain on HTV, which will be done in accordance with the procedure and no one will create their own empire, because through HTV it creates its own empire, HTV, the Croatian Radio Television that interrupts the session when it comes to the archives that the president of the HDZ Club holds a two-hour monologue on TV. And here the most important topic is essentially the topic that makes these things happen, in these archives are these people who actually control all these processes, and so is the media space. I think this is good for the citizens, for a radio-television that unfortunately spends more money on external production than our domestics, it's a disaster. Many there are employees of purpose to themselves. I expect this director, although he is under influence, is clearly visible, but I expect him to reduce HTV regardless of what happens to the subscription to 60 kuna as agreed. Because this is the least he can do, and by not damaging himself from that subscription independent media this or part of the overpayment goes to other media in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is where the local media and some others are financed. And it is very important not to do this at the expense of those, but to mean the reorganisation of HRT, by decentralisation of HRT because it cannot be all in Zagreb. Of course, every place must have the right to have its own show, some kind of opportunity to present itself through the public. HRT must promote our tradition, culture, what we have, what we are, but in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, not buy Mexican soaps and spend money on it, a billion kuna from, of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't know how much of, means from the budget. They have to work hard because many commercial televisions that are much less suddenly have become more visible and diaries. Why? That's why HRT, independent HRT. Well, here I am in the case of a consultant what they did to us. We couldn't get to TV. So here today, so that money that our citizens give to HRT must be completely or commercially or be public television, and these and that they run the processes of execution through courts as it should go rather than create an empire of one person. And through the control of the entire media area, of course they're going to hit on us from the Most. But we're not afraid, I guess we'll survive. I live in private and in the country and we'll manage, but we won't be addicted. Don't try to make us look beautiful on the front page, and that's it. I expect of all colleagues who are very important to the theme of parliamentary representatives to support this, because this is an important issue for the citizens. Once again, 90,000 Croatian citizens are blocked by HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37517	Replica was reported by MP Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37518	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bulj, should once again be stressed, someone may say it is populism, but HRT plays an extremely important role in Croatian society. It's even becoming in rural areas, there are places isolated today that people really believe if it was on television that it's true, only in that case believe and thus form reality in people. On the other hand, I would disagree with you not having to be a key benchmark for HRT, there are extraordinary shows that have low ratings but are very and very demanding for preparation and are difficult to present to the public in some way, but the narrow circle interests them. So it doesn't have to be just watching that main motivator for the HRT program. But what is certain is that the interests that exist in this society, the interests of the powerful, if we remember when the then Prime Minister Sanader came, with how many words of praise he was followed and when he came here to the Republic of Croatia, I say he came and then he spent some time outside. The same is true of current Prime Minister Plenkovic, the same is true of praises. What the HRT lacks is a certain criticism. Which is why journalists can't possibly be critical because they're addicted to these and these influences. We see now editorial policy so in Virovitica there at the turns out as it is already called in the field study I don't know what it was called, while there was Principal Mr. Radman, there were three now there's only one man there on the ground working. So it went into rationalization in such a way as to eliminate this link of rural areas with HRT while you say some get very high wages, and in fact it's questionable what quality is and what is the message of what they do there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37519	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37520	I would agree with you that public service doesn't have to be the most visible, but the fact that huge money goes to the soap opera series, in a simple dictionary, it's obvious that we don't have one or a home-made movie from the Homeland War on heroes has countless, self-initiated people doing it, we don't have any historical films. We have a certain example here was a film about a Sinjian alca, as far as I'm concerned, it was good. But you can invest a lot more in domestic production if we have people, potentials and resources, and you have the possibility of making as many legal changes as possible, to make domestic music artists of domestic music. Why shouldn't it be domestic music, much more legally enabled to HRT and then implement it or encourage our ethnic music. A lot of people deal with this, basically to preserve the tradition of culture, which should be the role of public service, not to be production of foreign interests, various soap operans. I mean, we have more Mexican soap operas, I don't know which movie, some movie or show like "Little Mist", "Very Same," "Man and a Half", I'm talking about now I don't remember them. And even the children's program doesn't throw out any movies that used to be in much more difficult conditions than they are now. So too much of this system of money leaks through your fingers, uncontrollably, law offices make good money, listeners do their job well through appointments, and that's how it is. And of course we're going to be the ones who are going to hurt them, and they're going to bomb us, but it's only making us stronger. The more they hit, the stronger we'll be by not getting into their journalistic writings and their freedom as their creativity to retouch the great leader on the cover, Mao Zedong I think you'd be ashamed or this North Korea. So I think public television doesn't have to be the most visible, but it has to be... /Speakers speak at the same time./... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37521	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The session will continue tomorrow at 9.30. The first point will be the proposal to launch the trust issue to Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote on the debated points, including tomorrow's item, will be held at 9:30 on Thursday, 4 May. Thank you. Session adjourned at 3:35 p.m. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Croatian Television, Second Reading, P.Z. No. Ten. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Miroslav Simic, parliamentary representative. Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37523	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37524	Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37525	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37526	By way of derogation from the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 1 Amendment No. 2. becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37527	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-05-02-0.u37528	This and the third amendment become an integral part of the final draft law. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Law on Croatian Television. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 87 for, 8 abstentions and no votes against the passed Law supplementing the Croatian Radio Television Act together with the amendments adopted. Honorable MPs and MPs, we continue to work. Representative Peja Grbin, come in.
