ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST club due to a targeted guess by HANFA and the CNB that led to this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25155	Representative Bulj, is it possible to take a break after the vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25156	As far as I'm concerned, this should be allowed by colleagues from other clubs, and may be after the vote as you wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25157	Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25158	Mr. President, we agree that Mr. Bulj's break will be after the vote, but there are indications given the government's view of amendments that some of the clubs will seek a break between the amendments and the vote on the law itself. In that sense, they would not accept that break as well as after the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25159	Since you have announced probably a break after the amendment and you will not agree to it after the vote while giving others the opportunity to be after the vote, I will set a ten-minute recess. Mr. Bull, after that, you have a chance to speak. There are breaks, every time you ask for a break, there's a break. Mr. Bull, you have the right after ten minutes to explain your break. Do you want it now? Here you go. Explain the break. [[Intruder Bull: I accept immediately.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25160	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We called for this break because of the situation in which the Croatian economy is located, and this is all due to the convenience of the Croatian economy from HANFA and HNB i.e. all is prescribed by the Council on Financial Stability Act. This is a council consisting of 10 members and four representatives of the CNB, 2 representatives of the HANFA, 2 representatives of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia and 2 representatives of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. At the Council meeting, there are 8 members of the council and each representative of the CNB, HANFA. The finance ministry has one vote as well as the State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation, which also has only one vote. The Council's most important tasks are: identification and evaluation and examination of systemic risks, insurance of cooperation and examination of information between competent authorities for support and implementation [[Intruder Petrov: Please esteemed representative Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25161	Representative Bulj, please, please, esteemed MPs and peace advocates in the assembly. Please be correct to the parliamentary representative as he exhibits.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25162	In particular, if crisis situations arise, harmonisation of methodologies for the identification of systemically important financial institutions and structures, issuing warnings and recommendations related to systemic risks and financial stability. The work of the Council shall be held accountable to the Council and shall be chaired by its work by the Head and Governor of the Croatian National Bank as President of the Council. Council meetings shall be held at least twice a year. The public work of the Council on decisions taken relating to the implementation of the monetary policy of the Council is required to implement and inform the public in all cases so that the public is aware of everything. The Council is obliged to report on its work, forward to the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Finance, the budget of the Croatian Parliament. So I ask the question of the Croatian National Bank, the HANFA and the Ministry of Finance did you ever identify, evaluate, consider the systemic risk of Agrokor at your meetings? If it is what you have concluded, since you obviously did not report it to any public or other competent authorities. If you haven't evaluated and considered the systemic risks of Agrokor then you gentlemen have not implemented this law but have worked in the interest of the boss. Given that the CNB is a key institution in the council with the highest number of votes and that meetings are to be held in the Croatian National Bank, which is now the most important institution for national financial stability in addition to regulators and holders of monetary policy, an additional question is being raised as to how banks and factoring of societies can expand more than 10 billion bonds without cover, and this means that they have been issued without specific delivery of goods or services. And that means that there was no VAT, tax and tax billing, and how the HANFA and the Croatian National Bank did not see that it was banks and factoring societies that actually emanated money from nothing and acted as a central bank that could only broadcast money. Of course the CNB knew about it and saw it because the Vice Governor Damir Odak, in charge of the supervision of the bank, admitted that the CNB banned the escorts of such bonds issued to Agrokor. Moreover, Governor Vujcic boasted that the majority of potential damages for banks amounting to three and a half billion kuna were preserved in this way. What a comfort for all of us and for all the citizens! Therefore, my questions are why the CNB did not report its knowledge of Agrokora's bonds to the competent institutions. Two. Was this the incursion of Agrokor and other participants in the monetary system? Why the HANFA did not monitor the factoring of the company even though it was able to do so independently of the law and the factoring whose application was delayed twice because it was authorised under the HANFA law. Due to such a failure, all the conditions of the HANFA Act and the CNB Act have been met to open a debate in the Assembly on the trust of the people who run these institutions and who have worked against the interests of Croatian citizens and Croatian society. They are the ones responsible for this situation that has been brought into the economic system into collapse, which depends today hundreds of thousands of people on cashiers, suppliers, producers. The MOST Club will support this law to try to protect only those jobs and the economic circulation. But we will insist to the end on the responsibilities of those who have allowed all the governments so far to make the Croatian National Bank and HANFA behave in this way and that they only favored the bosses against the interests of the people. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25203	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work. About the announced point - Work report of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2015. There's a man named Grmo. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25204	Dear Vice President, I call for a break, i.e. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club about the special war that some of the media and interest groups are leading against Minister Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25205	We can arrange for the break to last for 15 seconds so you can perform immediately. Is anyone else looking for a break? Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u25206	Here's the esteemed vice president, colleagues and colleagues who are here in the assembly. About three days ago in the morning list, standard means that Hanzamedia does not stop this war against Mosta, journalist Dora Koretić published an article to which Minister Dobrovic is holding back a series of projects in the Republic of Croatia. The title of the article is "Dobrović can cost us 11 billion kuna". Of course Minister Dobrović reacted to these untruths, he cited all these projects, practically which he did not stop but, for example. As with the Golf at Srđ project, we have a situation where there is a River of the Administrative Court in Split which has annulled the solution to the acceptability of the environmental procedure and has been ordered to repeat the procedure. If someone, as the minister said, does not need to respect the court's decisions in Croatia, then it does not want good to Croatia, and the judiciary is an independent branch practically, and the minister as such could not force the court to make such a decision, and the Jutarnji list sought to impute and present it as some pre-election campaign of Mosta, so the minister stopped the project in order to help my colleague Maru Christic in Dubrovnik or me as a candidate for mayor in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, so the big project was then stopped. Of course, that's not the only thing he says about Free Dalmatia's behavior, which I would call "occupied Dalmatia". Here I also warned from this pay phone that the editor-in-chief was removed, a man whose exclusive task is to deal with the Bridge now before the local elections, and then we have on Wednesday on the cover of a re-count with the minister about the same situation. Then, again on Thursday, the same script, or the same handwriting, practically where the minister is accused of obstructing all these golf projects at Srđa, to the Lečevica Waste Management Centre and all other projects. What is interesting to mention especially when we talk about the Srđ golf project is that not only the media, i.e. the Hanzamedia, went through the morning and Free to this special war against Minister Dobrović, but also by investors who also crashed on Minister Dobrović a few days ago calling him the chief braker and investment. Of course, the minister also explained and answered nicely to these media, invited them to respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia and added that the time had passed when the permits were issued overnight and in suspicious ways. It is surprising that investors of such valuable projects, whose value has been estimated in billions, do not understand that it is not Minister Dobrović's fault for stopping their projects, but those who brought them illegal plans, issued illegal permits. Not Minister Dobrovic, which I said at the outset, made three sentences against investors but Croatian courts, and if Mayor Dobroslavic had the courage to carry out a powerful verdict on reducing the scope of the project at Srda today, investors would not have the problems they have. So in the desire to favour private capital, the mayor himself has forgotten, means the laws and the rule of law that he often likes to call on, and I call on him to carry out his sentence in this remaining time while the mayor is still a mayor and to show that he respects the institutions of the Croatian state, but that he wants to cooperate with investors who are willing to comply with the laws. I will certainly implement that verdict in the interest of the citizens of the City of Dubrovnik, the Republic of Croatia, as well as investors as they wish to further develop their project. And as for this media war against the Bridge as I have announced I expect soon in the second reading of the HRT law, we will not be stopped by those who think that this kind of media debauchery will stop us from stopping Mr. Hanžekovic from taking money from Croatian citizens at the occasion of this exercise, it also means that he is additionally burdening Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36271	Good morning, everyone. We're starting today's session. We are going as we announced this morning when we separated at 1.15 from the hall with - Final bill on the completion of the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 118. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Yeah, we all got confused. We're looking to see if there's a request for a break. Here's the first morning that it doesn't. Thank you very much. We're going with the proposer. I'd like to ask Madam State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Sanja Misevic to give us an opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36272	Good afternoon, all of you, distinguished parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. The final proposal for this law, which has a long unscathed name, is called the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Records, Rehabilitation, refers to compliance with the Law on Local Elections, which entered into force on 31.12.2016, and the closer regulates the way in which a copy of the criminal record will be obtained for candidates for local elections. Therefore, the novelty is introduced into so much that the certificate will be able to be removed through the e-Citizen system as well. The municipal court and the permanent services of the municipal courts will be able, therefore, to issue to citizens applicants of the certificate, and then, if such confirmation indicates that the person has been convicted, then the Ministry of Justice is asked for special assurance for the purpose prescribed, so this article on local elections. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36273	Thank you. We will begin with the first debate on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36274	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the draft law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of conviction, criminal records and rehabilitation with the final proposal of the law. In fact, these amendments to the law are of a technical nature. The law in question on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation provides for provisions relating to the possibility of obtaining excerpts from criminal records when electing representatives to the Croatian Parliament. As recent amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections have been made and a catalogue of criminal offences has also been introduced, in order to allow for the extraction of the criminal records and when running for local elections, certain adjustments should be made, i.e. amendments to the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records, Rehabilitation. Therefore, the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, which entered into force on 7 December 2012, entered into force on 1 January 2013, with the exception of Chapter 4 relating to the international exchange of data from criminal records, which took effect on the date of the entry into force of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. In the head of two of those laws relating to the substance of criminal records are prescribed among other things and the way data is supplied from the criminal record. It is thus prescribed that data from the criminal record shall be issued to authorised persons in the form of general or special conviction. The general belief contains complete data on the conviction of a person, and the Law on prescribed authorising officers, such as courts, State attorneys, police and authorities, is issued in order to enforce criminal sanctions. On the other hand, the particular belief contains only certain data from the criminal record specified by a specific law and is issued for a specific law prescribed for a limited circle of the authorising officer. Therefore, such a belief contains only information on whether a person is convicted of certain or certain criminal offences prescribed in a specific law. The law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation was amended in 2015 by supplemental law, amended in 2015. Subject changes are prescribed specificities in the procedure of requiring and obtaining a special conviction from the criminal record to ensure that the control of the conviction of persons who are candidates in the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament is carried out in the time limits prescribed by the Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Meanwhile, the Law on Supplements to the Law on Local Elections entered into force on 31 December 2016, which provides for an obstacle to participation in the electoral process in the elections for members of the representative bodies of the units of local, regional (regional) self-government and for municipal mayors, mayors, and their deputies and mayors to persons convicted of certain criminal offences. Following this proposal, the law prescribes specificities in the process of requiring and obtaining a special conviction from the criminal record to ensure that the control of the conviction of persons who are candidates in the election for members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government is carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36275	Thank you. At your presentation we have one replica, representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, one detail. There's been a lot of controversy about this law. What I welcome is definitely that the certificate will be issued via the e-Citizen system. What is interesting is that a very large number of citizens have been asking for a long time to confirm everything about impunity, non-compliance, and all for a few years now that the Ministry of Justice has finally made it possible to extract for all citizens through the e-Citizen system and, as I said, I welcome that this has been done for this case. And what I am interested in and what I would ask, ask, however this practice now continues after these local elections and for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because this is one of the most requested documents for any form of employment or anything in the Republic of Croatia. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36277	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36278	My dear colleague, I've seen this more as a suggestion, not a replica of my exposure. Of course, both the judiciary and the Ministry of Administration are working on the system of e-Citizens and will learn and do everything in order to make all the records available in such a much more efficient and appropriate way than that, as has been done so far in the seats of municipal courts, let's just say in the process of candidacy in local elections we expect about 60 thousand citizens who will be participating on different lists and it would be practically impossible if they all had to extract these records in municipal courts' seats. Therefore, this amendment of the law will allow them to do so in permanent services, but also by electronic means, through the system of e-Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36279	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, representative Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36280	Thank you very much. Honored vice presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm going to say something about the bill. In the meantime, I'll say something about the law that we're changing right now. Therefore, the Law on the Legal Consequences of Criminal Records and Rehabilitation was adopted on 7 December 2012, and entered into force on 1 January 2013, except for Chapter 4 relating to the international exchange of data from criminal records which took effect on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU. The legal consequences of the conviction, rehabilitation and handling of data from criminal record until the law was passed were regulated by the partial provisions of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. That law was amended in 2015 by law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation. In the second chapter of the law relating to criminal records matter, the establishment and keeping of criminal records, the content of criminal records, the way data are entered in criminal records, and the authorities having the right to direct access to data from criminal records, and the way and delivery of data from criminal records, and the deletion of data from that record. Data from the criminal record shall be issued to therefore authorised persons in the form of general or special conviction. The general belief shall contain complete data on the conviction of a person, and shall be issued by the basis of Article 11 of the Law, as prescribed by the authorising officer, such as courts, state attorneys, police, authorities responsible for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the bodies of the Security Intelligence System when they seek information based on specific rules, the bodies responsible for deciding on the acquisition of Croatian citizenship, the authorities responsible for issuing authorisation for the procurement, holding, carrying and transport of weapons. On the other hand, the particular belief only contains certain data from the criminal record, specified by a special law, and is issued for a specific law prescribed for a limited circle of authorising officers. Thus, such a belief contains only information on whether a person is convicted of certain offences prescribed in a specific law. Data from the criminal record shall be issued to authorised persons in the form of general or special conviction. What is important in these proposed amendments is that specificities are prescribed in the process of requesting and obtaining special assurances from the criminal record in order to ensure that the control of the convictions of persons to be run in the elections for members of the representative bodies of the unit of the local (regional) and the regional self-government and for the municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies is carried out so that it is very important that these certificates can also be issued in the form. And what is also important to say, the application for a certificate shall be submitted to municipal courts after the decision to call the elections has taken effect. Within a very short period of time, such confirmation will be made by those who have submitted the request. This speeds up the process of issuing certificates, given that after the amendments to the Law on Elections in Local and Regional Self-Government, there will be a much greater circle of persons who are obliged to seek such assurance of impunity so as to be able to run in relation to the previous situation we had. The implementation of the proposed amendments to the law will not require the provision of additional funding from the Republic of Croatia's budget. The basis for the adoption of these proposed amendments and the addition of the emergency law is set out in Article 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, given the approximation of the deadline for holding elections for local, regional or regional self-government. The HDZ Club will support such proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36281	Thank you. At your presentation, we have one replica of the representative Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36282	This is not a question addressed to our young lady from HDZ, but perhaps to this expert downstairs. I'm interested in this law because I'm not an expert, if a person doesn't commit a crime, say two, three years... etc. Is it possible to run again in the local elections? The second question, what is for higher levels, is that it applies to people whose file is there at the Belgrade MUP who had code names like this Filter 57, Owl, Cologue, Degenerek, etc. Can they run in local elections? Because we all know that the SDP didn't hand over personal files from the former system, and that's one scary fact for me. And the senior official in that former system had a thicker record. It's all haired. No one was in the UDBA, no one was an informant, no one was in the party, and now overnight everyone became saints and everyone could run. And I'm wondering if it's the tipping of someone who got two years in prison, because that man who was an informant can run in local elections, etc. For me, this is just one smoke screen. Generally, in our legal system that doesn't work at all, there are no criteria here. You have a man in diplomacy who said he worked for the secret service of another state, worked in Canada. So what other states? SFRY! Please answer those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36283	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36284	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, since his colleague Glasovic said that the replica was not directly directed to my presentation, I would answer only one piece of his replica. As regards erasing from the criminal record, it is also prescribed by law to delete from the criminal record when certain conditions are met, so that, in that case, after deleting from the criminal record, the person is convinced that he has not been punished. As for that, it therefore meets the conditions for running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36285	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. Agent Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36286	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I'll agree that those who have been punished and who have committed some acts that can't even run anywhere, and especially not represent someone. But in accordance with Article 13(2) of that law, voters or political parties shall not be allowed to be a member of the representative body of the unit, nor for the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputy to run for persons who have been convicted by a judicial order, including a conditional sentence of imprisonment of at least 6 months for the following offences prescribed by the Criminal Code, so there goes murder, serious murder, high treason, service in the enemy army, aiding the enemy, undermining the military defence power of the state, spying, violation of the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, war crime. There's everything and everything, and everything that's important in this law, but aren't we like the state that just came out of the war and pulled a lot of those who have all these epithets in the contents of their resume. So we also had persons in this Croatian Assembly who were suspected of the most serious forms of war crime and everything I had listed before here. So they sat here with us in the Croatian Parliament, representing someone or something. Presented those who... for the most difficult forms of rebellion, betraying its country of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I can't help wondering whether this law will prevent Croats and Croats who will be able to run or have ambition to run in their cities, places for chief, chief or any other service for the benefit of their own city or country and who won't be able to because, in some time, some government, some judiciary, the authorities of the Ministry of Justice, have characterized them as destroyers, as attackers, as those thugs who have been prosecuted by some dictatorship, according to one of their own courts, even though they have only fought for the truth. We have a group in Vukovar, the city of Hero, that we all like to say, one group of citizens that came from the Homeland War. It's called the Vukovar City Defence Station, which fought against one constitutional decision in its town, which struggled to have to survive in that city when justice had already failed and did not want to take decisions, some people's wrong decisions. Won't these be impossible for them to try to run that city in their city where they barely survived, try to run it the way they did to defend it, unlike those who attacked it. So we're going to have a situation where those who have attacked this city and who are forgiven and who are appalled will be able to run and run this city possible, while those who have been captured, terrorized, tortured by these same ones will not be able to. Why? Because our judiciary and... finds it appropriate to complete investigations, process all those who are suspected, bring the person of justice to whom we all swear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This enables them to run and to be in power. And these Croatian defenders who have barely survived, who can still suffer under the pseudonym “killed by brandy. ” All we can think of is Pajcic, a minor Croatian defender who suffered from the repression of the descendants of the former enemy he destroyed in his town of Vukovar. Let's remember that. No one's gonna talk about it. The honorary defenders of Vukovar who represent their associations, who represent their city, the street, who are recognized in their midst as honorable and honest people, they will not be able to run because someone at some time put a questionnaire above their names and last names as someone once put a questionnaire on Ovcara, Staic, Begai and other places. I often talk about this, I often associate everything with the Homeland War, to get to today's time to say this one was prosecuted, this one wasn't. We know well in Croatia why someone has been prosecuted and why someone is not prosecuted, persecuted or suspected. The books, the black books of the judiciary are written about our judiciary. Imagine how many books would come from Vukovar if you were the same one who couldn't run for office, coffee would have been able to write about someone who ran for office and who was sitting in the Parliament. Why does someone have the privilege of being forgiven every time, and someone does not have the privilege of having a fair trial in their own Croatia? I wouldn't see a couple of replicas again. I could do two more days on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36287	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit. He is the first representative of Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm a colleague of Culey's. I've been thinking about whether or not to answer it, but I don't want to de-polmise with you at all, but as far as the truth is concerned, I've answered the line. In fact, you are always and often today mentioning it is the law and decision on Cyrillic, the truth that makes me appear that some people have not passed the Cyrillic Act, but HDZ has passed the Cyrillic Act. And on the list of these same people, the same HDZ you entered this Assembly on the list of those people who passed the Cyrillic Act. And you've been in the House for the second year, if I'm not wrong for another year with the same people, or HDZ, you're in power, and none of you have ever thought of that law that bothers you so much that you put it out of your hands or change it. So I say again, I really don't want to paralyze, but the truth is, don't tell some people, it's a very close history, it's all clear. The people you're sitting with on that side are their own hands, most of them passed the Cyrillic Act, and I think it's a good law, it's my right and it should have been passed. But you don't think that if all those people you're sitting with have opinions like that, so for God's sake, change it or stop talking about it. But it's at least hypocritical all the time already here for a year, a second year in the Assembly to say the same thing from the position of someone who can change something. Here. Thank you. I'm saying I don't want to compromise on the subject, the whole truth, nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36289	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36290	I have to answer. There's everything they say in God's garden. When you look at all these heads of ours, we don't all have to think the same way about things or think or act. Someone in his past acted in one way, someone acted in one way, someone acted on another or disagreed. I'm not gonna say if it's good or not good about the Cyrillic in some town, but it's not appropriate in Vukovar. It's the city's biggest victim in the Homeland War. It means a lot, and you know what that Cyrillic was bringing us. I'm not going to go into your privatisations of those... and the rest of what you've been making, let's keep it for another time, so we don't polimise any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36291	Thank you. Next replica representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36292	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Culej, you have, on several occasions, talked about justice, about the injustice that is actually happening here, I would just like to highlight another great injustice that we have experienced as citizens of Vukovar-Srijem County and a large part of 2/3 of this county from the Ministry of Justice at the time of the SDP government when the seat of the Municipal Court in Vinkovci, which had been abolished and transferred to Vukovar for 160 years, although this Municipal Court in Vinkovci covers 2/3 of the population, has 2/3 of the judges and employees and so much of the tradition in its work that after that, with the aim of reducing the costs actually increased, the costs of citizens, the costs of judges, the costs of the employees, so that the Ministry of Justice here has done more damage at the time of SDP than the benefits. Here I'm glad that it's this very small segment that we're going to get this very non-punishment certificate at least now, or else we've had to go to Vukovar in the court-seat seat by now, and now here's at least one little bit of a sign of attention to cut the costs to the citizens of the entire Vukovar-Srijem County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36293	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36294	Comrade Karlic, you're coming from a town that I'm close to, and you understand the whole situation around the city of Vukovar. It's an indisputable fact, and I'm going to speak out here publicly and I've spoken more and more and I've said the fact that you all know very well, but because of our youth that sits up there and those who look at us, I have to talk about it. That there were persons in the courts in Vukovar since '91. The same judges, the same judges who weren't persecuting war criminals in Vukovar, who weren't after those at the time they were there from 091 to '97. But they saw it through blind glasses, and they saw not what was happening around them, and they didn't suspect it, that we might inherit it even today. From my personal experience, I came to the judge whose house I was at when the gorilla asked me if you were the one who said I did, but I didn't burn your house down, your parents burned your house down, your brother was killed. As a Croat, you go to such a judge and it is the fate of Croatian defenders. The Croatian defender when he comes to court he sees the same judge he was in the case when he was tried, when he was persecuted. The Croatian defender can't help himself. Here's Mr. Fred here should know and know a lot of cases like that, not to say what that judge's name is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36295	Next replica representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36296	Dear Mr. Culey, you have proved in this statement that Croatia is in one embrace of legal paralysis regarding judges. There was a report recently from the SOA that you have 20 judges who are a threat to national security. Who are your characters? What are we talking about, what criteria? A Croat who wants citizenship out there he needs to prove everything, blood type, what he was doing. It takes him three years to get citizenship. Three years. It's a deliberate sabotage from former comrades that they don't want these people here. Because they made a state like that of the former, which is pardoned by their persuasion. And if we don't get out of this legal paralysis there's a screenplay waiting for us in Paraguay and the Greek script. When I ask, when we're talking about criteria here, who can run, so what kind of state is this? We have the population of Los Angeles, we can't create a legal state. The law must rule. And what about those 14 families that have out there at the bank accounts, $1.7 billion transferred out and earning 50 million a year? What's between 2001 and the tenth you have data on where 34 billion dollars were sucked from Croatia, 300 bank accounts in Liechtenstein. Can people like that run for office? And what's he doing on that matter, UskoK, the State's Attorney's Office and other services that have to introduce the law here? Where are these simple mechanisms for them to be implemented? This is a tomato republic for me. It's a great honor for those who died for her, but they handed the state over to drones, assholes and drones.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36297	Mr. Glasnović, please choose your words in Parliament. Please! Do you have a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36298	I do, so I don't. I understand a fellow Glasnović who emotionally performs in his performances. And I love that style, because that style is the unconverted one who's honest, true, and who knows what he's trying to say just to know if they understand those who listen. So in every environment there are people who are recognized by their people. The same people want to see these same people in the Croatian Parliament, but these same people will be disabled because of what someone targetedly carried out processes towards them, to prevent them from running, to represent their people at all. Because the easiest thing to do is to decapitate the people with their true representatives and then to do whatever you want with them. It's also known through history from cutting off the prince's heads, so I don't know how far. It was always the ones whose head peeked, the most prominent, who fought for the interest of the people. This will make it possible to be disabled in their actions, progress, representation of their people, the interest of the environment from which they come. These representatives, they recognize the essence of the problem, the core of the problem. They recognize any of their people as the people breathe, what the people need. The people don't need much, but they need truths, honesty, honesty, unconventional representatives, statesmen. What more does he need? A little work and joy as to what bread and games would say at some point, and that same people unless they have their own representatives, if they are represented by others who are not recognized by them, there is no happiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36299	Next replica of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36300	Thank you. Comrade Culey, in your debate at one point, you said there were men here in the House who were war criminals, who had no right to be in this House by your interpretation. I'll say I know who you mean and it doesn't matter, we both know. He's not a war criminal because all six criminal charges against him have been dropped as unfounded. So, we can talk about emotions, we can love someone, we can love them, we can love them or not, but we're speaking in fact. And that means that this law applies to those who are convicted. So these restrictions don't apply to people who are abolized. Let me tell you the difference between amnesty and ablation in some legal and practical sense is next. In the amnesty, they are released, the punishments which have already been condemned are forgiven, so given to those who are condemned. And in the abolization it is a broader notion and legal, even sociologically invented by the Americans in the civil war for some social and human reasons, and in the abolization it is in some way free of criminal responsibility but not for acts of war crime or serious crime. Therefore, all those who were freed from this party by President Tudjman by abolination, abolized, thus freed from any prosecution and suspected of committing war crimes or some serious crimes were also punished, prosecuted and punished. And they're not abolized. And let's not deal with such facts. I know it's populistally very nice when you say it and you hear it Abolished, etc. So it's not the same to be amnesty and abolized. And this law does not apply to the category of abolized inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36301	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36302	My colleague Mile Horvat, if anyone understands me in this Croatian Parliament, it's you. And you and I understand each other very well about that. But I can't help but mention that participation was an ablation, and for actions not or misdemeanors. The Croatian judiciary for what reasons is the slowest judiciary in the world, I guess. We don't have such a slow judiciary anywhere. We have in that judiciary people you can tell the truth ten times, and they won't understand what you said at all because they have an opinion. So we can convict one Tomislav Mercep on the basis of something and another judge of his own court says to him you were on the wrong side. Which side was Tomislav Mercep supposed to be on? A man who didn't commit a single crime himself. Does anyone suspect him that he committed some kind of crime? You are Peru Perić, Mark Markovic or Jovo Jovic, no, there is no such thing in Mercep, but he has been convicted in Croatia. Djuro Brodarac died in prison, and someone else, despite hundreds of witnesses, against him, the charges are dropped. Why are they throwing themselves away? They're being rejected because whoever's listening to that indictment doesn't trust the victim but trusts him. I can't help but read and read for the fifth time. The question arises why all eyewitness testimony about Dr Vojislav Stanimirovic is worthless, for example, by Slavica Popovic, wife of Croatian defender Marijan Popovic, who was hidden by the wounded for several days. According to her statement to the house Dr. Vojislav Stanimirović literally told her, Slavice where your Marian has been for three days we've been looking for him, he's a prisoner of war. I have to hand him over and I'll send for him. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] After that, three men came into the house. Armed militiamen and in her presence took their husband [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] [[/Intruder Opačić: Time of fellow Culej. Please, you've been all along.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36303	Individual debate representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36304	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Here I want to actually say the words about the amendments to this law, and I absolutely support it, and I think it's a good step towards approaching those things that the judiciary needs to give us, to bring it closer to citizens because it's just really when we look at people who have to go to the courts or to the ministry to get those beliefs or certificates of impunity that they need now, of course, in larger numbers because the local elections are closer, people have to apply it as documentation to participate in local elections. And therefore the possibility of doing this in a permanent service outside the court's seat, in the court's seat to do it through the application of e-Citizens, is indeed a good step and this should be an example of where the judiciary, so not only the judiciary actually and our entire public administration should go. The more e-programs, the more digitisation, the more communication through the computer, that's what we need, and that's where we're going to speed up all these procedures, we're going to make it easier for the citizens, but we're going to make it easier for these public bodies and courts and all the other state bodies that are going to have everything in one place. There were even speeches such as the executive procedure in Slovenia, there is one court executive in Slovenia that works exclusively in this way. I don't know about making a solution to the performance by digital means, no paper contributions go but it comes there in one center and they bring a solution at that center, print it out, send it out, and only if a complaint is filed then the procedure opens, then the papers go. And all of this in digital form is being kept and that's really great. Here it was open, here's a colleague Karlic talking about the municipal court issue in Vukovar and Vinkovci, and I'm saying that we've been through one rationalization of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia, and I remember that it was one of the important conditions for us to close negotiations in chapter 23, to make our network more rational. What does that mean? That means, we had a large, really large number of courts once, there were 108 municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia, infringing, state lawyers' offices, and it was really hard to work in such courts. There were courts in Ličko-Senj County of five municipal courts, each court has one judge and that one judge should have done both criminal cases and civil cases and work cases and inheritance, so he had to know everything that was of course impossible. And that's when we came to some first rationalization where we put these courts together, we always said that the gravity wasn't at an end, but that it was at a merger. So we came from that number 108 to 67, but we are where the seat of the court was always left or a permanent service if there were any conditions or we opened up the possibility of those days of the judge coming from the center and that once a week or already how much need it was for him to edit and do certain jobs, that the citizens didn't have to go there. Then in the second step, we further rationalized and created one major centre which I think is good because in a larger centre, in a larger court, it is possible to specialize judges, so it is possible to have specialists for criminal purposes, for civil, for hereditary and that judge specialist he is far more competent in that kind of case he runs and works. And what does that mean? This means that when his cases are finished and he decides that it has a better survival in the higher courts that these appeals will not return the case to retrial, that's where we get quality, we get speed. And what we're really missing in this whole story, but every year it goes forward, there's no doubt, is that digitization because we have a great eSpire program now introduced to the Supreme Court that's pretty crowded with the subject matter, but eSpire is one application of management of these items, which I think will certainly contribute. I also welcome the announcements about land books, and we have this program that has been working for many years on a common information system where real estate data was pooled and real estate data kept in one place. We now have the dualism of these registers, so one kind of leads the cadastre, which is the shape and category of particles itself, and the ownership and other real rights are kept in land books. Now by assembling it into one base and also opening the possibility that citizens today can take out their own list to come anywhere in Croatia so that some devices can get to that data, it will also make it important to facilitate the work of the state authorities not to have a permanent party, but to be able to do so by one electronic means, and in any case, it is the way to go and see that the ministry in this sense actually works and that it has proposals. So here's the law means in some way a little decentralisation, that the ministry has brought down some of these functions that it has only, that they've been dispersed by them and at permanent services outside the court's headquarters and to these newly established larger centres itself. Here's my support for this bill, and I think it's a good step, and that's where we should move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36305	Thank you. A few replicas to your exposure. First replica representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with my colleague Bošnjaković in the first part of the exhibition when you were talking about information, that is, digitisation, and that is the present, the future, and there is definitely no way to avoid such a thing. And digitization is something we really need, which is great and what we need. The most banal thing if nothing in any form informs on-line documents, processes or whatever reduces waiting lines on counters at the very least. To date you have about 350 thousand users of the e-Citizen system, hundreds of thousands of these electronic documents have been issued. That means hundreds of thousands less people who were on counters, who asked for a document. That's hundreds of thousands less procedures our officers did. It's hundreds of thousands of less paper that's printed and there's tens, hundreds of thousands, or whatever you want millions of kunas saved in the meantime not to be spent on something that can be done very simply. However, there is one problem in this whole story that we are, in principle, all of us in a way. We don't need all the information if the citizens don't know it exists if they don't use it. As I said, we have today as much as I know about the latest official data from the Department of Administration about 350,000 users of the e-Citizen system. At the same time, we have over a million users of the Internet banking system. So there's one huge disproportionate between people who use Internet banking and those who use state internet banking, say it any way you want. And definitely those who use Internet banking are able to use each other and obviously it suits them. Therefore, my replica is, in fact, a request for both you and the secretary of state and all of us here to try to do as much as possible to promote the state's electronic services and to make our citizens more aware of the existence of an alternative way of resolving their services. And in principle, that's how the state works. Here I go. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] The state is becoming more efficient, faster and cheaper among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36307	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36308	Mr. Paric, you're absolutely right. This is the future of actually introducing systems like this into all segments of public administration, but there's another little problem here, and that's the money. It's all extremely expensive from the very implementation of it tomorrow, those maintenance steps that are also very expensive actually. Then those licenses for the software itself. These are all very large investments and this is one process that takes quite a long time. And in the end, we can say it by law, prescribe it. But what you said if the citizens aren't familiar with it doesn't have much use for that. So it's all together one process that requires big material assets and financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36309	Thank you. Next replica representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36310	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, in his presentation, said a lot about the benefits of issuing certificates provided for by the amendments to this law, which is through the application of e-Gradjani. Of course, I agree with you on this point and I think that in the very near future, we should really make it possible in all cases of publishing and other beliefs by the courts in the Republic of Croatia, for example, that practice extends to our fellow citizens on a daily basis to raise the certificates of impunity they need to apply to job tenders, then to meet the conditions for the appointment of management in commercial societies and so on. We know that the deadlines in which such beliefs are obtained are always limited and, for these very reasons, it is necessary to enable them to receive these beliefs as quickly as possible. You also talked about changing the network of courts in our immediate past in the Republic of Croatia where we know that many courts have been abolished, permanent services have been opened. But in the future, there is a tendency and a suspension of permanent services, so I'm curious about what you think about it especially because in all these smaller environments, citizens have extra costs, travel costs when they need to exercise some rights in courts. And that's why I think that allowing all the convictions from the courts through the e-Citizen application is necessary to reduce all costs for our fellow citizens in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36311	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36312	Thank you, dear colleague Jelkovac. And here's the law actually in this article 14d. In paragraph 6, the issue of a certificate and beliefs was released in this way, meaning it was exempt from payment of fees. So it's cheaper for citizens. In the spirit of what counterpart Paric said, here we invite citizens to use this institute because it is cheaper simply for them. No fees, and that's certainly good. As far as this second section is concerned about the network of courts, in any case, I stand up for it, and we did it, and we supported it when the SDP government did it, rationalising the network in a way that opened up and set up larger centres within which it was possible to specialize judges. However, we must again have one balance, one balance, that means the judiciary must be available to our citizens, which is precisely through permanent services outside the court's seat. Where there are enough cases that a certain number of judges can be constantly there every day and a certain infrastructure, there makes sense to have a permanent service out of court headquarters. And where it's not possible to go to the citizens' hands again, it's possible that the Institute of Judge Days. It means in some smaller place where there was once a court of law no case to be held every day of the debate but there may be two times a month and twice a month a judge can come to schedule the debate, people come, witnesses come and we save the citizens that they don't have to travel, that they don't have to have expenses and I think that's the way to act. But we need to find this balance between creating bigger centres and establishing these smaller ones where we are more at the disposition of citizens. I know there was one big objection because the cities have said why we're losing the court now, Maria Teresa gave us you're taking us now, but you know you don't even work kindergarten where there are no children. So here and here, you can't have court if there's no case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36313	Thank you. Next replica, MP Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36314	Dear colleague Bosnjakovic. You were talking about rationalization, and I'm going to go back to our Slavonia and Vinkovce and the court that you transferred to Vukovar for what my colleague Karlic was saying. Well, I don't see any speed or good court rationalization when you know well because you're from that neighborhood, that the Vinkovci are one center and Vukovar and the Parish and all the surrounding that most citizens are closer to Vinkovci than Vukovar, not to mention the court that was present in one city for 160 years, and now you've taken it to Vukovar. I think it's one mistake, since you're in power now because we're all wrong about this, we could get this court back to Vinkovce and it would be more rational for the citizens, it would be a cheaper journey for the citizens. You know that everything goes 20km long if we start from the parish, and 60% of the citizens are leaning on the Vinkovci, and Vukovar is that we know well by the Danube which is far away both judges and lawyers, as well as citizens who need to go to court. So I'm asking you to take a little bit of that into account and try to sort it out. And I ask another question when the archive is opened and when it is seen which people were co-workers of certain structures that worked against the citizens of Croatia whether these people can run for any place in Croatia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36315	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36316	My colleague Misic, this about Vukovar and Vinkovci was done in a second step, so not during the time we approached this, it was done in that period '11-'15. I agree with you that there might have been a delay in whether it was necessary to bring it to one court because in any case it is one court but has a permanent service outside the court's seat. So he's both in Vukovar and in Vinkovci it's just that he's a judicial administration. But as far as citizens' availability is concerned, it should not be a problem because there must be an object or a permanent service there, but in any case, I don't think that any obstacle would be, and the ministry would certainly, in the next period of time, be aware of the number of cases that are types of cases, whether it makes sense to have both courts or one larger court that has one strong permanent service outside the court's seat. As far as the archives are concerned and as far as these elections are concerned, the Electoral Law is all regulated by who can participate, who can't so that I have nothing more to add to what we've already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36317	Thank you. Next replica representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36318	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Bošnjakovic, as has already been said here, and I do not share this opinion of yours that the rationalization of the courts has brought something good. And if we were to go now to ask not only the leaders of local self-government who, as you yourself said, pointed out as one of the big problems, I believe that citizens would, to a large extent, also all those occupations that follow the courts said that this did not do them much good. And I have to stress here that unfortunately since '93. We are constantly rationalizing something and we will not constantly see that life is taking place in all parts of Croatia, and that every abolition of a state institution in some space is in fact the elimination of a part of the life of that space. With the courts, it's particularly emphasized. And I'm afraid that if we move further economical rationalization of courts, including others of course of all services, that we're going to be nice, neatly helping to shut down life in all these areas and moving people to some central areas, creating some new centres because you know when courts move then the law offices are going after them, and we already have problems here. And if I don't say that in a permanent service in smaller courts today, in principle, judges are very difficult to come by, it's hard to get a new job at all, and most of these judges want to go to some larger courts. So it's causing a big problem and it's going to be very pronounced in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36319	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36320	Comrade Hrg, I understand the question you've asked, but you know life is changing. Sometimes some of the centers were as I would say, bigger in history, they had much greater preferences, a lot more of it was being maintained, but life changed and some things moved to other places. We actually had about a million and a half unsolved cases in the courts, today there are about 500 grand. I think it's very helpful for that rationalization because I'm going to tell you on one simple example, if you have a judge one judge means you have to pay for the space, you have to pay for all those auxiliary workers, and he doesn't have a single item per day to solve. And we did it in one county where there were five such courts, we put them together in one court, those judges could specialize in one for civil, one for work, one for inheritance, and they were walking around that county in the same places where they were alone, but when they collected a sufficient number of cases he was one in that place, and the other day he was in another place. We could actually achieve much better exploitation and those people themselves to function better within the system. So that's not what we invented. A fragmented network of people not used enough and actually inefficient. So maybe we don't see this, and there will always be objections to the judiciary. In the end, two parties have to lose one, one will win. The one who loses, of course, will spread a bad voice. But digitization, rationalization, these are very important actually guidelines for further action.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36321	Thank you. And another replica of your presentation by Agent Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36322	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. You talked to your colleague Bošnjak about it yourself. The intensity of all state institutions is digitisation to make the data as cheap as possible and more accessible to our citizens. When we talk about protection, of course, we have to make sure that these data are not misused especially if these data are from criminal records. Namely, after the convict executes the sentence, he is a free citizen and must be a useful member of society. However, the question is which position may be a useful member of society. Let's say we have an example in Varazdin County where they exist, meaning some information that one of the directors of the City Communal Society a few years ago was convicted and punished for economic crime. And now the question arises whether anyone who has been tried for economic crime can be the director of the City Communal Society. Of course, it was about the story and the meetings of the County Assembly, but today we did not get an answer. I think in such cases, it means county councilmen, municipal, urban if they're looking for that kind of information, they should get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36323	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36324	Of course, the Law on Commercial Companies provides the conditions for the appointment of members of the administration and those responsible people who run those companies, and even closer means to the very acts of those companies. I think the county, or city level, so the councilors certainly need to get data on meeting the requirements of these people who are appointed to such or elected to such functions. So here you see, and now we're changing the Law of Elections where we introduce some much stricter criteria that can be run at all if he's committed some kind of crime to prevent the effects of such people who are burdened with such facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36325	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote today at 12.15.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36326	The next item is the final draft law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of conviction, criminal records and rehabilitation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 118. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation. Please turn on and vote. The vote is over. I find that with 130 votes in favour, one abstention and no votes against the passed Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36327	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 12. Law on scientific activity and higher education. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. And I'd like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science, Mr. Matko Gluncic's education to tell us about the point at the opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36328	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed MPs and the MPs. It's about a short wheel. At its meeting on 10 February 2017, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision appointing 8 members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, including a member of Dr Oliver Jukic, a professor of Higher School. However, between the process of proposing candidates, their election lasted almost a year, and during that time the status of Dr. Jukic, who was appointed Dean of the Virovitica Higher School, was changed on January 23rd 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act on Scientific Activity, higher education is prescribed that state officials, as well as leaders of scientific organisations, higher schools and members of other top professional bodies cannot be members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Immediately after learning about the appointment, Dr Jukic informed the new situation of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Agency for Science, Higher Education and of course the Ministry of Science and Education and requested the discharge of the duties of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. So Dr Jukic was appointed from the ranks of the High Schools, and in this order, in accordance with Article 9 on scientific activity, a new member should be appointed to the High Schools Council, Higher Schools. So this proposal, this is a proposal to demand, means Mr. Yukuć's discharge from his post as a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36329	Thank you. Do the committee want reporters on behalf of them? Here you go, Mr. Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36330	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yesterday, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament met and discussed at its 8th session the proposal for a resolution of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 23 March 2017. The Committee shall comply with the provisions of Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal as a parent body. At that meeting, the applicant's representative pointed out that the provision of Article 12(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 was set out in point (a) of Article 12(2). The Act on Scientific Activity, Higher Education prescribed that the President or a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development The Croatian Assembly may discharge duties on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development and before the expiry of the time for the period to which it is appointed, if it enters into office to prevent work in the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Since a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Office of High School Representatives has been appointed as a member of the National Council, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of Article 12(1). The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education lays down a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Without discussion, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision authorising a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development and to invite colleagues of distinguished representatives and representatives to support the same request and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36331	Thank you. We're starting a debate on behalf of the clubs. The first club on behalf of the club MOST Independent List Representative Miro Bulj. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. The next club is the club of HDZ MPs and representative Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36332	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposal for a decision to resolve Dr. Oliver Jukic as a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Namely, as already mentioned, the Croatian Parliament decided at its meeting held on 10 February 2017 to appoint eight members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, including Dr. Oliver Jukic. However, given that it has been almost a year between the process of proposing candidates and their election to the National Council, the status of Dr. On 23 January 2017, Oliver Jukić, who was appointed Dean of the Higher School of Tourism and Information Management in Virovitica, is hereby appointed, as Article 11(4). The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education prescribed that state officials and heads of high-school scientific organisations as well as members of other top professional bodies that care for the development and quality of the entire system of science and higher education cannot be members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Dr. Crescent. Oliver Jukic first informed the National Council on Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, then the Assembly Committee on Education, Culture and Science of the Croatian Assembly, and then the Agency for Science and Higher Education, and finally the Ministry of Science and Education and requested the discharge of the duties of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development and, accordingly, at its meeting held on 23 March 2017, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out such a proposal as we received in materials, so the proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for the reasons provided for in Article 12(2). The Law on Science and Higher Education, i.e. because of the entry into service that prevents the work of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. And since, of course, it's dr. In accordance with Article 9(1), Jukic will be appointed to the National Council by representatives of the university and higher schools in that order. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education shall also be appointed a new member of the National Council, on a proposal from the Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools. Finally, on the basis of everything I have said so far, the HDZ Club will support the government's proposal for a decision to resolve members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36333	Thank you. The next debate is representative Miro Bulj who loses his right to debate because he was not in the hall or when he was registered on behalf of the club. And the next debate is MP Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36334	Thank you, Vice President. So, I won't be long, nor will I repeat what we've heard three times from the Secretary of State, counterparts Opara and colleagues Bedekovic, it's all clear. But I want to take this opportunity and send the message that I sent and from this pay phone when I last spoke on this subject. So, by playing some awkward circumstances in the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, there are no women. At the same time, 57% of students studied in Croatia, 50% of women graduated, and 49% are women at universities and universities. Therefore, although this is a slightly conducting way of choosing, the last time there were 28 candidates, there were only 5 women out of the five women in the second round only one woman and eight men were eventually elected. But here I am and this is my appeal to the promoter, these are high schools, that they be collegiate with their colleagues this time, and that they propose to the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development still have a representative of female scientists, students, since they are almost the majority of our higher schools and universities. And also, I would ask the Secretary of State to speed up the election procedure for eight members of the National Council for Education and Education so that it can finally start working in full composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36335	Thank you. We have a replica of Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36336	Well, here's an esteemed colleague on this, so I can't and can't replicate and therefore join your words. Of course, support always and in every occasion the choice of women in places where they can contribute crucially to their own profession. And here's to supplement and just to say that in dean places, in dean positions within the Council of the University and the High Schools and within the university system, we have a certain number of women that we must, of course, all work together, primarily women alone and then their surroundings to make such positions more and more. And of course, I am also ordering, therefore to the members of the Council of the High Schools, to all members, so all the institutions that now need to elect a new member from their ranks to see this if it is possible to be a woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36337	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36338	Thank you, colleague Bedekovic. It's nice to have a theme that we agree on. But I want to point out once again the importance of this topic because even the prosecutor for gender equality had requests to reconsider whether the election procedure we last had was legitimate, it was indeed completely legitimate and unquestionable. But the problem was that a sufficient number of women had not been run, so together, let us all appeal that a woman should be chosen for this choice. But also for the National Council for Education and Education, I'll be at least half the number of men and women.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36339	Thank you. We're closing the debate. We don't have anyone else registered. We'll vote, so somewhere around 12.15.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36340	The next item is the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was concluded in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I note that a decision has been unanimously taken to resolve members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36341	The next item is - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Deputy Advocate for Children Proposer: Advocate for the Children Is there anyone on behalf of the Office of the Attorney General who needs an introductory presentation? If there isn't, I'm opening a debate. So in the name of the Live Wall and SNAGA club, MP Ivan Vilibor Sinčić was reported. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to argue. Since there are no more reports, I am concluding a debate on this subject. And that's it for today. So I'll see you around 12.15 or 12.30? 12.30, I'll see you at the vote. [[Bukarica raid: 12.30.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36342	Dear MPs and MPs, we continue with voting points. Be my guest. The next item is the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Deputy Advocate for the Children. She's a lawyer for the kids. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Advocate General for the Children. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I would like to say that it is unanimous to take a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Advocate General for Children in the text as proposed by the Advocate General for the Children. At 3:00 today, we're moving on with our work. The next item on the agenda will be the Work Report of the Personal Data Protection Agency for 2015. Thank you. It's 1:00.38.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36344	Okay. Reporter on the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency for 2015, slowly I have one small text to read. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The law on the protection of personal data material was delivered in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received a report from the board on the benches. The government has delivered its opinion. The applicant may give an additional explanation. A colleague of Anto Rajkovich, head of the agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36345	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives. Let me welcome you on behalf of the employees of the Personal Data Protection Agency and, on my personal behalf, welcome you all together. I will take the opportunity to further elaborate the Agency's work report for 2015. As known, the Agency is an independent supervisory authority which ensures the implementation of the protection of personal data. It was established by the 2003 Act on the Protection of Personal Data. The main task of this body is to monitor the legality of the processing of personal data. Therefore, the Agency monitors the personal data-processing databases and warns them of illegalities in the processing of personal data can order the removal of irregularities, temporarily prohibit the processing of personal data, order the deletion of personal data, and prohibit their release from the Republic of Croatia. Through its work, the Agency shall endeavour to act effectively to fulfil all the rights and obligations in the field of protection of personal data imposed on the Republic of Croatia as a full member of the EU and of the Council of Europe, and shall also seek to increase the responsibility of all participants in the process of processing personal data and related to the application of the rules covered by the national, legal framework, with the appropriate application of information security measures. It is also a permanent task to raise the level of awareness of all targeted public on the importance of the protection of personal data and their rights and obligations, as well as the implementation of measures for professional training and training of personal data protection officers as well as the overall implementation of all administrative and professional transactions arising from the law. The funds are, of course, secured in the state budget. At the end of 2015, the agency hired 27 employees plus two officials, director and deputy and respecting the government's decision to ban new employment in the public services of new employment there was no. Just a few brief indications about the structure itself. So, in 2015. The Agency consists of 4 different services – Personal Data Protection Service, Supervisory Office and Central Register, EU International Cooperation and Legal Affairs Service, and the Service of Joint Affairs. I have to point out here how we are during the next one, i.e. In 2016 we made a small step in the small restructuring of the agency so that at the heart of the Joint Affairs Service we actually strengthened the supervisory service because it is one of the basic tasks and we have made quite a significant breakthrough in terms of increasing the overall activity in this area and raising quality. This will, of course, be detailed and clarified in the 2016 report. Something about handling requirements for the protection of rights and giving legal opinions. The personal data protection service as a competent establishment unit for the resolution of rights requirements on which it decides by a solution, as well as by giving opinions and recommendations, and the adoption of other legal acts during 2015, received a total of 1308 cases. Of these, 142 cases relate to administrative proceedings, 537 of them were required to protect the rights of representatives of citizens and third parties, 613 cases related to legal opinions, and 16 reports to other bodies. Of the 537 requests mentioned relating to the request and presentations and complaints, 261 such a request was submitted by citizens or their denominations. 209 of these requests and performances were submitted by legal entities, such as units of local self-government and public institutions, ministries and other public authorities. 39 applications were filed by the Ombudsman for children, and 23 of those requests came from the unions and associations of citizens, 5 were submitted anonymously. A total of 169 administrative acts were adopted in 2015, of which 153 solutions and 16 conclusions. Of these 153 solutions brought by dissatisfied parties in the process, 14 administrative disputes have been initiated before the Administrative Courts, which are disputed by the Agency's adopted solutions. When it comes to administrative disputes, so 14 of them launched during 2015. 2 cases have been legally completed in a way that has been rejected and confirmed by the Agency, while in one case, the Administrative Court has annulled the solution because of the incompletely established factual situation and the case has been reinstated. Only in short these two items which have confirmed solutions in the first case are injuries, established infringement of the rights due to the public publication of personal data for marketing purposes in the catalogue of a trade craft in which they were published next to the photo name and last name and private address of the owner of the family house. The procedure implemented by the Agency has established that, under the law, there was no legal basis for such publication of personal data advertising and a solution to determine the violation of the right. In another case relating to the processing of data on residence or residence for the purpose of compensation for flood damage, the applicant addressed the Agency because it considered that the unit of local self-government unlawfully. Contrary to the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, the fact of its residence and residence and other inhabitants for the purpose of granting humanitarian aid by the Croatian Red Cross to flood victims. In this administrative matter, the Agency was managed by the fact that the criteria for the award of financial assistance were set in a way that aid would be paid to persons who had been reported at the time of the flood, i.e. legally declared residence and who were in the flooded areas at the time of the critical event, and that the establishment of residence data was prescribed by a special law, which is of course clear. For these reasons, the Agency has made a decision which rejected the request because it did not establish an infringement of the Personal Data Protection Act at the expense of the applicant. The case relating to the return to the re-trial in 2015 was subject to the application for protection of the right in which it is pointed out that the teleoper as well as the company for the collection of the claim, the applicant was not informed of the refusal of the claim, nor of the transfer of its personal data to the claimant. It was a transfer of outstanding claims under the contract to establish a subscription relationship concluded with a teleoper. During the 3rd month 2015, the Agency adopted a decision establishing a breach of the rights for the benefit of the party and ordering the claimant to maintain a special written correspondence on the processing of the personal data of the debtors, more specifically in writing to the applicant and any other teleoperator debtors whose data is processed in accordance with the request contract, that their personal data have been supplied for the use of the claim collection company, and shall state for the purpose of processing their personal data. During May of the same year, a teleoperator and the claimant companies filed a lawsuit with the Administrative Court against the agency's solution. In November of the same year, the Administrative Court reached a verdict repealing the Agency’s decision and re-determining the matter by reason of the importance of the teleoper’s primary obligation to apply Article 9. The law on the protection of personal data before personal data is given to other recipients to inform the subject. The Authority has now adopted a new solution in February 2016, in accordance with the legal understanding of the court, which found that the processing of the personal data of the subjects by the teleoperate company in order to give rise to an infringement of Articles 6 and 9. The law on the protection of personal data in such a way that the data on the two different addresses of the residence of the subjects are admitted, thereby preventing the delivery of information on the entry of its debt to the new believer. It was also found that the processing of unscheduled and incorrect personal data on the address of the applicant’s residence by the requesting company and by the failure to further inform the applicant of the transfer of the claim to the new believer in this case the claimant’s payment company suffered injury to Articles 6 and 9. The law on the protection of personal data. In addition, the teleoperator was ordered to inform the debtors in a clear and unequivocal manner before the request and transfer of personal data to the requesting agencies of the same obligation, and to provide accurate and complete personal data necessary for the purpose of the transfer of the claim. So, in March 2016, prosecutors, so the teleoperator and the company for the collection of claims filed a retrial against the Agency's solution. The procedure before the Administrative Court is still pending. In addition to the above mentioned administrative court, three solutions have also been taken to suspend the administrative dispute due to the withdrawal by the applicant, and in these cases the solutions adopted by the Agency have become effective. In the case of infringement proceedings during this reporting period, the Agency, as an authorised prosecutor, has submitted four indictments, indicating that the other legal acts adopted by the Agency have been adopted and that the Heads of the Collection have acted in accordance with orders or decisions, conclusions and other acts of the Agency. The reasons for this number of procedures initiated shall be examined in particular in the provisions of Article 34. The law on the protection of personal data which, above all, requires the Agency to adopt a solution to determine the infringement of the right, and only after that, to initiate an infringement procedure unless the parties who are ordered to impose certain irregularities act by order or prohibition of the Agency. For example, they do not delete personal data when it is ordered to continue processing the applicant’s personal data and the like. In addition to that additional reason, such a number shall be examined in the fact that the Agency does not have the power to conduct infringements, but may, in accordance with the law of law as an authorised prosecutor, file an indictment before the competent criminal court. It is also important to note the fact that the provisions of the Criminal Code of Article 109a require prior to the initiation of the infringement procedure to be notified to the perpetrators of the infringement of the procedure itself which must be served to the Head of the collection i.e. persons authorised to represent in legal persons by personal delivery. Only after these assumptions have been fulfilled can the prosecution be brought before the competent criminal court. In practice, this proved that the delivery of prior notices of initiation of the infringement procedure to persons against whom the personal delivery is initiated... since the sending of such notices is often not possible or in many cases difficult to deliver, there is no return of the duly signed notice to the Agency, and without such notice no procedural assumptions have been met for the conduct of the infringement procedure. We know from practice and experience that other institutions have a similar problem with the delivery of these notices introduced by the 2013 Violation Law. It is also a problem that the applicable infringement provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act are also present, since often identified irregularities in the processing of personal data are not listed as a violation or, according to the Court's understanding, are not the same. In addition, I would like to point out that, in connection with the infringement proceedings, the Agency is acting within the limits of its powers. However, it is important to note that the area in which the protection of human rights is regulated and from this is primarily the task of the Agency to work on prevention and education only afterwards on repression. By bringing in a new so-called The general regulation opens up the possibility of adopting a new regulation on national legislation and thus the possibility to install new institutes related to criminal punishment, for example. the term of office, etc. that the new law also implements additional descriptions and offences that have been crystallised in the work of the Agency so far. When it comes to the supervision of personal data protection, the Supervisory Office carried out a total of 686 controls during the reporting year of which, at the request of respondents, 327. 25 were on the third party's proposal, and 334 controls both direct and indirect checks were carried out on official duty. It is important to note that the Agency's supervisory activities and role under the obligations laid down in the Regulation on... started in the third quarter of 2015. These controls were carried out by the Agency's supervisory team from the aspect of the legal and information components directly on the ground, the premises of diplomatic and consular offices, and appropriate conclusions were adopted after the controls were carried out, i.e. recommendations. As regards the records of the personal data collections that the Heads of the Collection are obliged to submit to the central registry run by the Agency during this reporting period, a total of 535 agencies were delivered which is somewhere above 6% higher than the previous year, so the total number was 25 thousand 135 records in 2015. The number of registrations was also increased in this year 825 new and 15% higher, so that the total number of 11 thousand 31 registrations of collection heads is current for that year. In 2015, the Agency received 594 notices on the appointment of personal data protection officers of which 399 new notifications and 165 of those containing changes in data of previously registered personal data protection officers. Therefore, this is the official who appoints the Head of the Collection and who, in that organisation, manages the legality of the processing of personal data, warns the Head of the Collection of the Need for the application of the Protection Regulations, meets all persons employed in the processing of personal data with their legal obligations in order to protect personal data and worry about the implementation of obligations relating to the establishment of a personal data collection. As regards international cooperation in the EU International Cooperation Service and Legal Affairs during 2015, a total of 229 different cases in the area of international cooperation were carried out. These are various opinions, signs, questionnaires, sessions, workshops, round tables, etc. a wide range of activities. With the authorities responsible for monitoring the processing of personal data from the Member States of the European Union, the institutions of the European Union and international organisations and other countries directly or through domestic competent institutions such as the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. As regards the transfer of personal data from the Republic of Croatia in 2015, the Agency received 76 requests and issued as many opinions. She has participated in four international projects. One concerns improving the cooperation of the personal data protection institutions. Others on d-identification for privacy protection in multimedia content. The third refers to the passenger records of the so-called passengers. PNA Directive. International co-operation is the fourth international co-operation on a project to improve the protection of personal data in the context of digital education. In 2015, in accordance with the law of the prescribed powers and in the framework of budgetary opportunities, the Agency carried out activities aimed at strengthening the public's awareness of the importance of personal data protection and general privacy. Events and educational content are organised on their own in collaboration with professional organisations, public authorities and institutions and academic community, with media monitoring of the most important topics such as the theft of personal data, the protection of personal data of children and young people, as well as the obligations of the Head of the collection of staff. In that year, the Agency also launched or intensified cooperation with a number of institutions and organisations and set a series of objectives for realisation in 2016 primarily in relation to events, education, workshops, which will, of course, be detailed in the 2016 report. In conclusion, it would certainly point out that, from year to year, the agency recorded a significant increase in the number of applications for protection of rights and resolved cases, so in 2015 there was a significant increase in total cases compared to the previous two years and in a report which, in an integrated report that you had the opportunity to see, was read precisely for these reasons we gave the information to see, ahead of one continuity for 2013, 14 and 15 years. In our opinion, this points to the creation of growing trust in the work and care of the protection of personal data of each individual, to the quality of the Agency's activities as a work so far in the field of monitoring the implementation of personal data protection and information and education, i.e. in the field of information and education. successful public awareness in the field of protection of personal data and privacy. From year to year, there is also an increase in the number of supervisory activities carried out, particularly supervisory activities carried out at the request of subjects or individuals, which also points to the strengthening of awareness of existence, awareness of the protection of personal data and general privacy. New communication technologies serve on the one hand to improve the quality of their lives, while on the other hand pose a great danger to unlimited and uncontrollable access and possible abuse of their personal data. Their use of personal data becomes available to unauthorized persons in particular in Internet communications. Also, from the fact that citizens themselves publicly publish their personal data on social networks to present themselves to the public, to friends, making their personal data publicly available. The more common it is, the unauthorized it is. illegal processing of personal data for the purpose of marketing, then processing of personal data to video surveillance cameras in working rooms and in residential buildings. The publication of personal data in the media of employees in public services who have been made available, or have ceased working relationship, the processing of biometric data for the purpose of recording working time without the consent of workers, the use of personal data to unauthorized persons and other examples. When resolving the questions of citizens and rights requirements, the Agency shall, in accordance with its legal powers, issue appropriate solutions and, in addition, recommend that citizens themselves worry about the protection of their personal data, in particular in a manner that informs who and for what purpose they provide their personal data, and to whom their personal data may become available as well as that any irregularities in the processing of personal data are made available to the Agency. It is a great responsibility for the managers of a personal data collection that are required to comply with the laws and other positive regulations and to take appropriate technical, personnel and organisational measures, and for the purpose of protection and unauthorised access to personal data collections. Of course, the data, managers are obliged to keep accurate and complete data identifying a specific person for the purpose of ensuring the principle of confidentiality of the processing of personal data and to take account of the time period of personal data storage. Cooperation with national authorities and public authorities in the Republic of Croatia as well as international cooperation with the supervisory authorities of the Member States of the European Union is also significantly intensified. You can also find data in continuity for three years, the last three years. And I would like to conclude that during this reporting period, the Agency has, in accordance with its law of the prescribed powers, implemented all or almost all activities and responded to almost all requirements within the legal deadlines, taking into account that with the same number of employees, it has received and resolved over 22% more requirements for the protection of rights and supervisory activities, and has achieved almost 40% of the various forms of professional cooperation with state bodies, public authorities, legal persons and citizens, and various forms of international cooperation with the supervisory authorities of the Member States of the European Union. There's so much in this part. I'd like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36346	Thank you very much for the detailed report, my colleague used it for almost 30 minutes, which is a timed amount of report to the Parliament. As I said, the Committee on Information, Information and Media has also discussed the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. There is a representative of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities. What about the replicas first? Excuse me, Mr Furio, we're going first with replicas. First replica of my colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36347	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Rajkovich, you mentioned that you prevent the requesting agencies from delivering personal data abroad. And I want to ask you how effectively this can be done, when almost all these agencies are in 100% foreign ownership? So these are basically just branches of these agencies, as a rule. I wonder if there really is an effective system of personal data surveillance with these agencies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36348	Thank you. The answers to the replicas will be united, the Proposer will respond to everything. Next replica representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36349	Vice President... the area of personal data is extremely important and has a growing dimension. The report of this Agency should therefore be alerted to the extent to which existing laws allow the protection of personal data. Because the physical protection of personal data doesn't seem to be included in this report, and sometimes it's much more dangerous because it assumes the theft of personal data and their abuse, and that individuals are not aware of it at all. So, the question, who does it, who should do it? And that is, I'm going to say a few more remarks, or questions, and then the question arises, will you, as the Agency, propose in your report, to present these restrictions to the current law to the Parliament, and to the Government to amend the law? On the other hand, you have, you're talking about protecting that data abroad. We know that police, given international agreements, police and other services share personal data with the obligation that these other countries destroy them after a certain period. Does the Agency do that, monitors, does that data destroy itself? On the other hand, there is one major segment, which is the harassment of citizens because of the excessive demand for personal data. It's an inversion to what you're doing, but by the logic of things it should be your job to, that when a state once or a state institution has personal data that they can't ask for that personal data again from month to month in different positions from citizens. This rationalisation of these databases, the database for the purpose of protecting citizens, should also be part of the work of this agency, so I would be interested in what you have taken or are going to take.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36350	Thank you very much. Next replica of counterpart Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36351	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the basis of the information and digitisation of anything of this type is the exchange of data, both data and personal data. And if there's no exchange, forget any progress, any form of information or anything. However, what is my experience that the public administration very little knows what personal data is, which is not personal data, which is my impression that the Personal Data Protection Act is one of the laws that is far the most used as an alibi not to do anything. Because people are really two people who laugh and don't laugh. What is known to me and personal data may only be exchanged between ministries and bodies dealing with the same personal data. Personal data must not be exchanged by those who do not need such personal data by the letter of the law. Now I'm saying all this for one question. I think it is very important in the long term for the progress of our Croatian administration to work on public administration education on what personal data is, how personal data is concerned and what about the Personal Data Protection Act. This topic is a lot of work in Europe, let's say it teaches and everything together and I think we should do it through the Public Administration School or how courses and all that goes to get our employees through this form of education. My question is how many agencies have worked on it, how much is she working on it, and what are her plans for the future on the subject? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36352	Thank you very much. The next replica is a colleague of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36353	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd have maybe two questions, and it's about the employee surveillance report. One part refers to the supervision of the e-mail of workers carried out by the employer. You're here and you cited this case and it's an administrative dispute and it's a good opportunity to protect the workers in this way. Because correspondence or change in e-mail is not only about the right of workers but also about the person sending such mail. And the other thing is video surveillance and audio surveillance at the workplace. So, I see from the agency's report here that you find that it's a rude violation of the confidentiality of information especially in cases where two important laws are not respected. It's the Labour Protection Act and the Data Protection Act. And perhaps in that part, I would also be referring to the replica of my colleague Tudjman who says that perhaps you as an agency should suggest then and divide, some legal changes if existing solutions are not enough to protect the privacy of persons. Because I think shooting at the workplace in case the worker doesn't want to, although he may even be an employer, he can claim it's for his own protection. But if the worker doesn't want it, he doesn't really have a choice because he can either get fired or continue working under those conditions. And in the end, one more thing might matter. I don't know if it's in this report, I haven't noticed it's the opening of user accounts in various business entities that thus involve people in their clients to express myself. These accounts usually contain a series of basic data. Rarely, very rarely or almost never can the user delete that data at their request, there is actually no such option. I don't know, maybe only if he doesn't ask for it in court, if you can comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36354	Thank you very much, colleague Sagar. And the last reported replica of counterpart Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36355	Dear colleagues, I have listened carefully to your presentations. Since I'm no expert on this matter, I have two short questions. What independent agency in Croatia oversees the work of intelligence services? Your job is also, it works with information, etc. some confidential, etc. What agency is that? Second question. What do you know about the work of the state company APIS and its sister company in Belgrade, OSEKO, who handles electoral and tax data? And another question. We see from open sources of information that there is no protection of personal data in Croatia. Little by little, this shows up in those trash weeks, etc. and, for example, does anyone in the Croatian Parliament, who is being tapped by phones, who are being followed by our Intelligence Security Service, etc. And if you have that information, you don't need to say names, but you can only say yes or no. It's not paranoia on my part, because that Trojan horse that works against this country is still... In intelligence agencies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe not this one now, but... That's how it's been so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that data, personal data are used by stakeholders. That means you're not an independent agency to me, and God forbid you're in the service of someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36356	Thank you very much. We also have a representative of the government, Secretary of State Mihovil Škarica. No further explanation is required. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the board. Just a little bit so the board president, colleague Furio, is wrong for a moment. A colleague of Furio's. Shall we wait for him? I'm patient, I'm saved. Well, he's gone, so how am I supposed to explain he's gone later? Here's all right. President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36357	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36358	I'll stop you right at the beginning, with us today at the gallery and council of the City Council of the Young City of Labin, and at that very moment you as chairman of the board of exhibits. We welcome the City Council of Young Towns Labin with us in...... Here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36359	The Committee considered that report as an interested working body. In the debate, the members of the Committee specifically referred to certain areas of protection of personal data which they consider necessary to improve further the amendments to the legal provisions governing that area. First of all, this concerns the processing of personal data for political marketing purposes. As highlighted in the debate in the past two election cycles, the provisions of the laws governing this area with unequal consequences per party or independent candidates in the elections have been interpreted differently. If candidates in the elections wish to contact voters by written or e-mail, they must first create a database of data on the persons they wish to contact, ask them to use these data and to provide them with promotional material. The opinion has been expressed that candidates in the elections should be enabled to present their programme and by written means so that voters can also be familiar with candidates' priorities in future political action. It is therefore proposed to consider, in this respect, the applicable legal provisions and to supplement them in a way to find a better balance between the protection of citizens' personal data and their right to be informed and not to be exposed to pre-election marketing activities of parties and candidates in written forms, but also to present candidates named candidates and clearly written for the purpose of the closed envelope to their voters in this way. So there are two sides, one is to protect voters from violence by politicians, and the other is to allow them to be familiar with the programme. And that's where we need to find one measure that this law doesn't know. In addition, the need for continued finding of a balance between the right to protection of personal data and the right to access information has been pointed out. As is said because of too wide an interpretation of the right to access information, data on income and fees are often provided to the public, for example by officials who are not paid out of state budget funds, which relate to activities that are not of conflict of interest. Since such data is also available on the Internet, their abuse often occurs, making it difficult for individual institutions to work, making it difficult for many to give up further engagement in certain business activities. In this respect, the role played by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data was particularly highlighted during 2015 when the publication of property cards led the officials into legal frameworks and thus prevented those data from being made contrary to the legal provisions. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission may adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. It also requested that only the personal data necessary and intended to prevent conflicts of interest be made public. Since the agency's intention was not to protect officials, it has, by its actions and actions, prevented citizens from getting into the privacy of their citizens, so it was them and the officials. Such behaviour, as the agency said, has significantly reduced the possibility of unauthorized access and possible misuse of personal data by officials in global network communications. Finally, the debate continues to pay particular attention to the protection of children's personal data on the Internet. At a time when technological development is faster and faster, it becomes more sophisticated and accessible to almost everyone. Co-operation with the Ombudsman for children has been praised, especially when it comes to the abuse of personal data of minors by organizers of various events, parties, etc. In clubs. As said high school students participate as promoters of such events and co-ordinators of ticket sales at school, and their personal data, name and last name are published on websites, photos from these events, the name of the school, the class which exposes them to numerous abuses. In this case, the importance of the role of the agency and other bodies has been highlighted in order to warn the responsible person in schools that further processing of such data cannot be carried out without the consent of parents or guardians of minors, when pupils are of course minors. And right now, in the end, attention is also drawn to the processing of personal data to video surveillance systems in kindergartens and schools, since the video camera represents personal data of a natural person, it is necessary to pay particular attention to the processing of such data of children and to determine to what extent such surveillance can be carried out. Since the full protection of minors from the possible misuse of their data in the virtual world is not realistic, it is necessary to take all the legal steps envisaged to minimise the abuse of personal data of children and young people. And after the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: a report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2015 is accepted and we are waiting for that for 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36360	Thank you very much to the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and the strength of counterpart Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36361	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. With regard to the protection of personal data, I would like to warn of the poor practice of dealing personal data with demand collection agencies which, in my opinion, represent the worst example of abuse of them. First of all, I would like to point out that all these agencies are owned abroad, that they are in a certain way phantom institutions in the Republic of Croatia, that it is very difficult for them to find a seat, very difficult to talk to anyone from their administration, and even very difficult to get any written information from them even after multiple requests. These are the agencies of classical interest and interest rates that someone has allowed in this country to harass citizens literally day and night, to spread fear, to spread uncertainty and to literally throw people on a beggar stick. The main clients of these agencies are banks and telecoms, but there are generally many other entities using their services. These are agencies that don't respect any rules, an agency that doesn't respect obsolete deadlines, that don't even respect any elemental decency, that behave literally as secret services as in those darkest totalitarian times that I have here and quite concrete evidence. This is, say, an official letter from one of the agencies that offers their services to banks and telecoms, and now be careful how they feel about ousting debts from people. It writes literally – the payment procedure is designed according to the procedure that has been implemented by the client according to the debt structure – be careful now – the habits of the clients' debtors, the culture of communication and according to the tools available. The Agency also uses knowledge to identify the model of debtor behaviour. So, the demand agency is following my habits and model of my behavior. So, she's following me, I don't know if I'm going for coffee Saturday morning or going for a walk with the dog. She knows at what time it's best to harass someone else. She knows if it's best at 7:00 in the morning or 11:00 in the evening. They really call people at midnight. They call people 12 times a day all the time. And now the question is, what right does such a right be given to, say, criminal organisations legally allowing the use of personal data given to them by third parties? Do you know, as far as I can see in this report, even something about it and you know that these agencies not only use other people's personal data for which they didn't get direct consent, but they call their relatives, they call our neighbors to read from this report, and they even call in minors to force someone to pay some debt. For this reason, I would like to warn during this debate that so long as these agencies are not banned, and will be banned safely sooner or later, that the Personal Data Protection Agency should find an effective way to inform clients of the transfer of the claim before that possibility comes into effect at all. I understand that in some contracts signed I don't know T-com or that the banks sign on page 5, 6 or 10 of this contract, small letters say that personal data can be transferred, but as we can see, it's not enough protection because 90% of people later wonder and can't understand how the Agency got their personal data, so not only theirs, but people from their nearest environment. What model will the Personal Data Protection Agency find? Do you sign a separate document? Is there any other way of warning clients? I think this issue is one of the hot issues in the Republic of Croatia and one of the most important issues of creating a bad climate in society and I believe that each of the parliamentary deputies has been informed, warned, asked by citizens to draw attention to this problem so far. Watch out for another detail that we can draw attention to these agencies. Here's the agency that specifically sent this memo here says that they're dealing with, therefore, debt enforcement but also phone sales. And now you tell me how these two occupations go together? So on the one hand, they take personal data from clients, and on the other hand, they do phone sales? How can we believe now that these data they received from the credentials are not used at the same time to sell people some products? With what right? Well, this is an obvious conflict of interest. So someone should make sure things like this don't happen. I wouldn't go further with this debate, I believe that you understand that this kind of use of personal data is not a good solution at the moment and that this is one of the burning issues of the currently Croatian debtors that they expect to get rid of as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36362	Thank you very much. We had two replicas. My colleague Darko Paric is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36363	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, talk about the protection of personal data today at the time of facebooks, Twitter, Instagram and God ask what is becoming more and more a matter of first order. I spoke about the protection of the public administration's personal data. You've opened up a whole new area that you've been talking about. And today we all have a situation actually that on all sides who knows who doesn't answer everything, offers you different services or who knows what, and you have no idea how he knows your address and your data and everything else. I'll read you one of the news from the other day. Congress of the United States allowed the sale of personal internet search history. And the news goes like this, the American Congress lifted the rule that Internet service providers were not allowed to sell Internet search data and use their users' applications without these same users asking for explicit approval. In the future, they'll be able to do it without asking you anything. Which tells you that in principle there is a very large trade and a very large question of money and businesses selling personal data. Everything you do on the Internet, where you walk. So T-com can sell when one day it comes to us, if it comes, its data that I was walking on the Internet buzzing about Konzum, which is going to do some profiles and everything. I'm only saying this because I want to say that the Personal Data Protection Agency will have a lot more work to do in the very near future than it does today. And they may be engaged in state and public administration in some secondary part, they will primarily have to deal with the principle of protecting the personal data of citizens and all those where citizens are living on the Internet and what they are doing. Because in this area where the data is actually found there's potentially huge money. And where money is of great interest and who knows what isn't, and it's going to have a lot to do with the Agency's work, and it's going to have to adapt a lot to future time. Because what's in America today will be with us for sure in a few years, be safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36364	It will be if we allow it. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36365	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Paric, therefore, you mentioned that this problem in the last ten, 20 years has become a burning problem. And on the other hand, it's a good thing we have an agency like this. We've heard that they have 29 employees, so let the 29 employees earn their salary fairly. I believe they will have an increased number of jobs but that's why they are employed, and that's why they have to find solutions consistent with modern trends. When you talk about the state of the U.S., we're getting some good stuff from the U.S., but as far as we can see, we've got some bizarre things coming and absurd. I repeat again, the citizens are afraid. So citizens are afraid of abuse. You read different newspapers and portals, today people believe I don't know, that they'll be chipped, that they'll be watched like some animals, that everything will be robotized. By strengthening trust in institutions as well as the Personal Data Protection Agency, I believe that this society can preserve a certain kind of humanity regardless of all technological superiority, to future new solutions, I believe that we will still live in a society that will primarily be human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36366	Thank you very much. The next replica of Marin Skibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36367	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, Mr. Bunjac, you've done very well critically, however, you forgot to mention the purpose of using that data. Because we know that today banks and corporations have become much more powerful than state institutions and we know that corporations often exploit as well as banks and personal data for the purpose of social engineering, for the purposes of various manipulations to consumers, for the purposes of even certain political initiatives, etc. Well, that's just the way to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36368	Thank you very much. Replication response, comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36369	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have seen, therefore, from today's debate which is the power of banks. Banks can write amendments that are adopted in the Croatian Parliament after a brief procedure. We just adopted one of those today. It is also evident from the very report of this agency that the banks that transfer the most personal data to these claims and banks are, in fact, what people consider to be numbers. In fact, when you come to the bank you're not a man, you're what the HROK report tells you, you're what your OIB says. So you've completely lost any personality, gender, nation, faith, identity, anything. On this side, too, it will really be necessary for the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data to have brave people sitting behind them, but it is also necessary for them to have equal quality advocates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36370	Thank you very much. Next up is the Club of Representatives of MOST fellow Miro Bulj. He's gone. HSS representative club, colleague Kresho Beljak. He's gone. The team of HDZ representatives, a colleague, Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36371	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, rapporteur. An analysis of the Agency's report on the protection of personal data unfortunately comes up with devastating data that despite the increased activity of the Agency's work from year to year, the number of requests for the protection of rights and legal opinions and reports in the field of protection of personal data is increasing. Comparing the number of recorded cases compared to 2014 when there were 990, a 32.1% increase was recorded in 2015. With regard to the fact that the legislative framework relating to the protection of personal data including the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the Criminal Law raises a logical question which raises the number of rights and legal opinions and reports from year to year. One of the answers certainly lies in the fact that citizens are aware of their rights, and on the other hand the defeating fact is that equal employers and various legal entities systematically violate the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia regarding the protection of personal data. A particular problem in the work of the Agency, as stated in the report, is the legal framework, i.e. legal solutions under other laws which are contrary to the Data Protection Act. This report of the Agency makes it clear that the infringements of the law are neither immune nor the institutions that should strictly comply with the legal rules in their conduct, and moreover, such actions are contrary to the highest values of a state protected by the Constitution. We are often inclined to underestimate the work of individual agencies, to wonder for the purpose of their existence, to observe them through prism costs. However, this agency is there with a purpose and a clear aim of protecting those rights of citizens declared by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because of Article 37. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees everyone the security and secrecy of personal data. This example is one of the more positive examples of the work of the agency which last year has been a lot and perhaps too much. It also raises the question of what is more and more work for the Agency, because their activity occasionally slowly crosses the boundaries of the Personal Data Protection Act itself and enters the category of protection of personal human rights guaranteed by the Constitution. The answer to this question is not given by this report, and I therefore believe that in addition to the fact that statistics, actions and activities taken by the Agency in the report should be added to an affirmative part with the proposal that the situation which is worse from year to year should be better and what measures and activities are needed to take in order to make such a situation better in the future. Finally, I would like to assess the work of the agency in 2015 with a good proposal to present concrete proposals and measures in future reports that should be taken to make the situation better from year to year rather than worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36372	Thank you very much. The replica of counterpart Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36373	Thank you. Dear colleague, just one brief comment. What the agency is doing today and what it has done in previous years is nothing compared to what it will do in 10 years and how many people will have to be employed in one such agency in 10 years if it does all that it has to do. Because the public administration and the people who work in the public administration today are not sufficiently educated in the concept of personal data are citizens equivalent, so proportionately also relatively little educated on the subject. And today at the time of this big Internet, Facebook and all, in times of fake news, fake profiles, in times of bombing with who knows what different cards, I don't even know what, the letters you get from companies, people, I don't even know who you've never heard of. They're all called personal data injuries, and someone needs to start dealing with it. Today we live in a world where you can read every little bit that a minor killed himself because someone on the Internet was doing something against him. And it has everything to do with the protection of personal data. What I want to say is that in the near future, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data will need to be a much bigger agency, have much more employees and much bigger and more extensive work than it is today, and that will probably come with education of people, citizens and all of us who live here using the Internet and everything else. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36374	Thank you very much. Replication response. No, I don't. Next replica of counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Milicevic, I am very pleased that your Club and your party agree with the importance of this agency and that you support the work that it does. However, like my colleague Paric, I must draw attention to another fact. My colleague Paric is talking about a further future, and I would like to talk about a closer one first. In order for the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data to fully carry out its tasks, the General Regulation, which enters into full application in Croatia on 25.5.2018, should ensure that the Agency has the human, technical and financial resources, the premises, the infrastructure necessary for the effective performance of all tasks and the exercise of its powers. So, if we are talking about the current fact, and 25.5.2018 is not far away, I can only conclude that the agency and sub-disciplined infrastructure, but also human resources, so that it can carry out all its duties and tasks properly. We need to approach this responsible team more than we have accepted this general regulation. So, we've taken some obligations, we have to meet those obligations. We must give the necessary support and also political support if we are talking about it if we are talking about the budget, then it is also political support so that the agency can fully revive and work so as to carry out all the tasks it should do. But here's something about it in my individual discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36376	Thank you very much. Next up is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. A colleague of Arsen Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am looking for actually the result of the vote for the report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014 which the 8th meeting of the Croatian Parliament thought refused by the majority. The SDP representative club will not support the conclusion of the two committees on the adoption of the 2015 report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, but will propose its proposal for a conclusion that the Work Report will be taken into account. In fact, I remember well for 2015 so two years ago, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a resolution was requested by the head of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data on account of the case that occurred and caused a riot in public when due to one of the decisions of the Agency which was never proven guilty at all. So, which is why the Committee for Decision-making of Conflicts of Interest or thought it had to remove property cards from the Internet after causing an unprecedented public unrest, which is why the then government accused her of actually wanting to hide the information about who knows what. Afterwards, the Emergency Procedure amended the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and the Agency's leaders, and especially the deputy director, was exposed to an excessive media link at that time. So this all happened in 2015 and when, in fact, both the Government and the Parliament at that time were brought into an awkward situation to arbitration between two independent bodies that both correspond to the Parliament and that they faced each other in a way that led to a certain mild earthquake in the public. I hope you remember that. Since this report for 2015 is neither of our best wishes, we cannot accept the conclusion that this report is accepted, and yet on the other hand, it is not enough reason to suggest that we reject the report because it is only one smaller but unfortunately more visible segment in the work of the Agency for 2015. So we suggested a compromise formulation on the understanding. The then request by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the resolution of the Head of the Agency was never finally put to the vote. The mandate of this assembly of parliament expired and the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was therefore removed from the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and has never been updated again. Therefore, the Agency's leaders work normally until the end of the term of office, and as an independent body, we have had some pressure from the European Commission and what other European Union institutions do to why we are doing so. And it was actually a political decision like a small political earthquake. The importance of the protection of personal data, the work of the Agency, etc. There's not much to talk about. In this second segment, so besides what I mentioned, the Agency has completed its duties. We are satisfied with that part, and besides that part, we do not have what I mentioned we have no other objections to the report and in this sense I repeat again, so the SDP Club proposes to the Croatian Parliament to take note of the report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36378	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. My colleague Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36379	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bauk, if someone else at the SDP Club had exhibited here, then I probably wouldn't have picked up the line. But you've been acting like the president of the club. This is where we heard the board's opinion and not having a discussion about it and your injury to your agency proposal which I was in some way not there at the time, so I might as well accept. But you as club president don't understand why on boards, the committee was unanimously accepted without any objections and we heard the board president here, and here the club says it's gonna be against it. It's better said he didn't say to be against it, than the formulation we've learned about. You know, I can get citizens to know what we're discussing and talking about here, and it's ours to make decisions. So I'd like to ask you for a little clarification about that or what's going on in the SDP, so has the situation gotten out of hand and executed so much that the committees can come to a certain conclusion, and outside the board and you, as the president of the club, have you reacted this way by not re-entering your debate, probably with some part of the debate, they can absolutely agree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36380	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36381	Dear colleague Boban, I appreciate your interest in the decision-making process at the SDP Representatives' Club. So, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities are members who voted on the Committee to accept from the human rights aspect. The Committee on Information and Information and Media also because we had no objections to that part. And what I pointed out as an observation was the observation of the general political situation that took place in 2015, and about the Agency's work and she was after the board because it was a little earlier on the committees in further consideration, she did a little bit more than these positive elements just enough not to be against the report, but to propose to the Croatian Assembly receiving knowledge. Besides, let's say a couple of reports that the HDZ Club voted on, and at the plenary session, the second one, I think there was, say, the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, and the Ombudsmans for Children, and then the attorney general's office, and then now we'll see how you're going to vote at the plenary session. Therefore, here I believe that you are aware that these mechanisms are sometimes complicated and procedures in the Croatian Parliament as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36382	Thank you very much. The next replica is counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36383	Thank you very much. My colleague, Bauk, is a little unclear to me your position given that you are trying an act such as this report to bind to a person or to disagree with the government in which you were a minister and not to complete the process that you started as a government, and as a Parliament you did not finish because we are all aware that the discussion was carried out at the time about the replacement of the leading people that the government had replaced in the 5th month 2015 and that the same people were actually not actually the deputy that her mandate had expired and today is running the Agency because I think the report is talking about what the Agency is doing and what its tasks are and independent of not being able to agree or to agree with the former government or the previous government and the present that it describes what the Agency is doing and what it did in 2015 on the protection of personal data. It's kind of a more or less offensive attitude or I don't know how I'd interpret it, but it's really a real evaluation of this report that you said you didn't have any objections to. I don't think it's right for the people sitting here because if you wanted to finish the procedure, why didn't you finish it? You had all the tools in your hands. You had a government that made a decision. You had a Parliament that discussed the shift proposed by the government and we never got the appointment of new ones. What was the problem in that affair, so-called the property card that I'm going to talk about in my debate which fell on the back of politicians in a way that the media did obviously at the request of a commission that was my only culprit at that point, that politicians themselves wanted to take off their property cards, that they didn't know about their property, etc. And that was written in the days of the 5th month of 2015. I did not see much responsibility or people at the time, and apparently the government was under the influence of the media and made a move that she later gave up because they were pressing charges against the European Court and everything else that was going on about it. But I don't think it's a correct point of view that you don't want to support the report just because you've made a mistake in the procedure yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36384	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36385	Comrade Boric, you've misrepresented me, but I remember this debate well. So, the mandated proponent of the resolution was the Government, and in order for this to come before the Croatian Parliament, the government had to do something, and that I usually mathematically chose the words in the explanation, I said that this is the way that the Government allows the Parliament to plead which of the two agencies or independent institutions that correspond to the Parliament is right, or which one is wrong. We have amended the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. There was even a united debate, and the motion was either the Constitution Committee or the SDP Club, and now I can't remember exactly. So it was very, very connected. So, the two independent agencies that corresponded to the parliament found themselves in conflict and the responsible government did the only thing that it could do, made it possible by its first move that had no effect on the Parliament to determine which one of them was wrong. And by not replacing the Agency's leaders, the Parliament estimated that the blame was not so much that they deserved a shift, and by amending the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, it allowed the Commission to put these things back on the web immediately. So that just like you said, the public wouldn't have estimated that politicians themselves were asking for their cards to be removed. So, here, that's how you formulate it, actually you're on the same track as we were then, and that's that we wanted with politicians any opposition, any positional because it concerns local self-government where there's a lot of your colleagues at least you brag about having a lot of commissioners, etc. So, actually, more HDZs were protected by our actions. We therefore made it possible for the Croatian Parliament to make one correct statement as to who is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36386	Thank you very much. It was a final debate on behalf of the club. Individual discussion of counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36387	Thank you very much. So here's what I'm saying about the report on the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency for 2015. I think these discussions are always quite lively and few of us may be here this afternoon, but I know that over the years it's been quite an interesting topic. Because the fact that the Agency counts as far as I can see from Report 29 employees, that costs are about 5 million and 200 thousand kuna for 2015, says that it is not a small agency that is insignificant and that its scope of work given the time we live in that it will certainly be bigger and bigger year after year. We don't even think about it as ordinary citizens until we're touched by some negativity or something that has to do with the abuse of our data that we carry as individuals, as citizens or as public persons in this political world or by others, because then I think we start thinking about whether there is a body that will help us protect ourselves from those who may have abused our good intentions or just because we exist or have our own identity, name and last name, the OIB, home address, residence, residence, etc. When do we most often notice or what is happening to us in life that we see from the very report that it is described very well by the Agency and by its actions? These are the moments when we notice that someone at work or somewhere privately oversees our email, someone calls us afternoon, evening, morning, with some unknown numbers, offers us certain products, means they have phone numbers available to them from only known means. Either it comes to us by the name and last name that you took a favor or bought a machine, a phone, and you've never even been in that teleoperator you signed any contract but you got an assignment in your name and name. When someone, I don't know their own real estate, house, apartment, put in a catalog that's not ours, but I don't know any legal persons, advertises you without your consent. When someone determines your residence, say, some local self-governments resort to walking around the house to see if there is a place or place of residence for a man from Zagreb on my island, whether he lives here seasonally or for a whole year. So some people walk around, the position does it by law, if I'm not mistaken, so they determine whether they're at a residence address you and those who are registered in a larger number or not. When someone abuses my data from the laptop computer, phone if I deliver it to repairs, etc. Indeed, there are many of these situations, and indeed, the Agency describes them in each part of its work. And that's when the citizens realize that someone has abused their identity or what they think is just theirs or just their right to have through your name and name and all that they are. We are aware that we are living in a time that we call a digital age and that the challenges ahead of each of us are getting bigger and bigger just to protect ourselves from these let's call them so, insinuating legal persons, individuals on us as a private person, and here we are also politicians of a public person and we are often thrown out with various attacks from unknown people, but the fact is that sometimes it worries us or maybe even endangers us. There are people who are willing to cross the line of law to reach certain breakthroughs, benefits, and abuse the name and last name of others or some of its data. The basic question is whether the Agency justified the existence, i.e. my role, in 2015, to me personally yes, I will support this report, I believe that it is quality written, that it has been done the way we have so far received it here in the Assembly and I think my opinion disagrees with my colleague from the SDP again and I have no reason to believe that anyone at the head of that agency is one or another, whether he was set up properly or had something in the meantime, should have been taken away. I think the report is correct. Now, what marked 2015? When we look at the part that talks about the Agency's presence, we see one straight line, and then the 5th month 2015 large share of the Media Agency means presence, it means that something was happening in the media world, but in the same relationship two independent let's call it, two independent bodies, one is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, and the other is the Committee for the Conflict of Interest. For those of you who don't know that, in that month, what happened was that the property cards of all the officials were removed from the Internet and there was a public question why politicians wanted to hide their property? Why don't they want to show the public everything they have? Then came a great media story and the government reacted. She reacted with the shift of the leading people of the Agency, and I think Mr. Rykovac was also the director at the time, and today he's here with us. And it was up to him then, as I recall, that a big hack came along, and he learned a lot of data maybe that should never have been found out or were in the domain that no one knew about them, but they started going out and stuff like that. I think it was completely wrong, and then I did, and that's what I told the commission and the lady who runs the commission when we had her report here, that I only feel personally guilty about what happened back then. This later turned out and the SDP gave up the shift due to some of the legal activities taken by the then deputy director that I think today is no longer because her mandate came up. And that's when the SDP stopped a little bit. This story of someone giving the Parliament an arbitration hearing is not true to me, and the Parliament has done its part. He held the shift debate, however, the government made a new proposal, new people to be appointed to the head of the Agency did not get until the end of the term of office, and the elections were called in 2015 and they were made, and to this day I say those people who were removed, and we know that by the government's decision, and today they are only there because the Parliament did not vote on them and their shift. The commission was trying to hide behind some first decision of their own and interpretation of the law, and then when they saw that they had crossed the border, they hid behind technical difficulties. Indeed, it was done harm to all those involved in politics because they turned out to be guilty of some kind of, poor communication between two bodies, between two agencies or the commission and the agency, and very quickly all this was removed after 15 days, all technical problems were gone and today we have property cards in the form that are appropriate not to publish data that the agency felt should not be published and that the whole world should not be seen. And it's a good thing that's true. We'll see what we can do now in part of this agency's further functioning and work. What's in front of us now? In front of us is a local campaign for local elections and will again come to me by abuse of personal data. We also witnessed in the last parliamentary elections that certain parties, their leaders, addressed individuals at home with the right home number. So with the pure address they had and started the letter, I don't know, dear Blaženko, dear Joseph, dear Arsen. And what was offered in the letter of promise, etc. How is it possible that a party has exactly all the information throughout Croatia I think then and all the houses or properties or all the people who have a residence and that they all get them in their own name or at least the most. Anything is possible, even though I say some of them use it skillfully, so it's kind of hidden. Some people don't want to deal with it, some people send their materials without their names and last names, they go into every house again, but in a different way. So I believe that now and in the local campaign, in the elections many things may be repeated and all will be represented in the same or similar way. I think the agency says I'm doing my job correctly, but there are obviously more areas where something like that gets hidden and everyone pretends they don't know anything about it. That's where I'm gonna stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36388	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. First up is a colleague of Arsen Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36389	Thank you. I'm going to have the impression that you are, that you will support this agency report just because I won't support it. Because you did not support the 2014 report just because I supported it. So, in which is the 2014 report that you voted against from the same colleagues from the agency compared to the 2015 Report for which you will vote. For 2013 it was unanimous or 12 out of 113 votes received. Therefore, in this explanation of broad political relations and everything, I believe that the Agency was doing well in 2014 and therefore we have proposed, therefore, the adoption of the report, i.e. an excellent excuse. And in 2015, she worked for minus 5 because that minus was what you said, so the conflict with the Committee for Conflict of Interest where they made unnecessary destruction in the media as seen in the report. And that's why they're going to get this little bit of criticism that we're going to suggest getting to know that report. That's what I'm saying now. If you can explain in a simple way why you voted for the 2013 Report to be accepted, then for 2014 not to accept and now in 2015 to accept again. And I don't see what was different in 2014 compared to 2013 and 2015. So, in the eighth term, the Croatian Parliament rejected the agency's report by 77 votes then by the ruling majority and you were among them who voted not to accept the report. And now you're criticizing me and drawing big political conclusions from why we won't be able to accept this for 2015. This is why, because of this conflict between the AZOP and the Committee for Conflict of Interest, but with a slight intonation, not to reject it, but to take it into consideration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36390	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36391	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, the only constant in those two years means that HDZ is in power, you are in opposition. We then expressed our negative attitude, now we speak positively, and that is how we will act, and we will accept this report without explaining why. Because you've taken the right to vote on committees for this report, and in the assembly you say you'll take it into consideration because you don't like the head of the agency because at some point he's become the victim of some of your games in the government and the media stunts on who's guilty between the agency and the Committee for Conflict of Interest. Then people got hurt. Now, when they've shown little teeth, then you've retired a little bit, that's the only reason why I don't understand why you want to know, and not accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36392	Thank you very much. The next replica is a colleague of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36393	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, you have touched a series of examples in your debate, in fact, or an opportunity to abuse personal data, and then I volunteered for a replica, although I did not know that at the end of the debate you would mention yourself, and you mentioned that the local elections were closer. Now maybe it's not an excuse that I don't know, but here's the head of the agency. Perhaps it is an opportunity to really consider how in the future or what legal provisions should regulate the notion of a survey. Because local choices by their specificity are such that those who survey can and know the people they call and those people are certainly in fear of how they will respond. Because if someone calls them in a town that has five, six thousand inhabitants, they know every street and someone calls them for whom you will vote. What if this man answers? Depending on who's in power. It's not a matter of man being intimidated, it's simply not polite, and it's not in line with the Personal Data Protection Act again. And actually my question isn't so addressed to you right now, but please comment, more to the agency. What exactly can the agency do? Is someone who conducts the survey obliged to report to anyone in the Republic of Croatia to conduct a survey other than those of course the very rules of survey that certain agencies have? Are they obliged to report someone? It would be good if they were in charge of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, we would report and then conduct a survey, so that someone would oversee these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36394	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36395	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, I think the polls are more or less ok. And that it's done by law. I was more controversial from the parliamentary campaign when we had the previous one and the one a year ago, when someone has all your information on him as a political party and addresses you nicely at your home address and the letter begins with your name and is probably allowed. Here's the director he'll tell us if it's allowed, in which way the parties come to such data, whether they can use it and if everything is okay let's not, but I think it's then available to everyone and anyone can do whatever they want in this country because there's a different way to deliver election material to someone and then someone to assess whether that material is good enough for him to choose him or not as a candidate or as a political break. And that's why I mentioned that local elections are going to be going and that it will now be quite and especially because many leaders are all more or less elected directly and of course there will be home invasions of many of these various promotional materials and everything else that stands. I also mentioned the abuse of legal persons calling you on phones they have, on cell phones, so they're all available. They know exactly who they're calling, so they didn't take a method of error or I don't know a number by chance, he calls us and represents and speaks your name and name. Where, why are they allowed to do this, and who gives them such information? That's exactly where the citizens are most rebelling, that's what causes citizens a kind of discomfort that everything is available. If we're all available, then there's something wrong with the agency, and then it either works or doesn't do its job right, but the director will explain it later in his presentation, I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36396	And the last replica of Irena Petriyevcanin-Vuxanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36397	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now, as my colleague Bauk likes to say mathematically precisely, I'm going to say the answer so that it doesn't end up unclear why the Personal Data Protection Agency and the Agency for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest eventually entered the so-called conflict. Because the additions to the 2015 Law of Conflict of Interest, which did not say so in the media on which one agency is working, were prescribed not to apply personal data protection regulations to a particular set of personal data. But such a provision is at the same time contrary and it deny that fundamental human rights prescribed by European legislation. There we have a convention of a very long name, we have that EU Charter for the Protection of Human Rights and the Rights of Personal Data, we have the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but this European legislation is more important. And that is why the Constitutional Court was then given that request for constitutionality and the addition of the 2015 conflict of interest law. And what was the most important? So most importantly, in such cases, the national authorities are, therefore, obliged by the agencies to apply EU law directly, rather than the opposite regulation of national law. And that's the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36398	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36399	Thank you very much. Comrade Irene, we've given a slightly wider political context, what you've said is the real one, and then it's in the middle between that wider and that legal government that didn't manage. And then two bodies that were independent started doing it each in their own way. And it wasn't personally acceptable for me to get the commission out that it wasn't technically ready to do what the agency did. And then they transferred it all back to the agency. And the government arbitration and replaced them, and we have a decision on the replacement of the two who ran the agency, and we have the fact that the gentleman is here today, and that the government didn't complete its process because she realized that she was wrong and that at this point the agency was right, she couldn't tell the commission that they were wrong, that they were wrong, that they were wrong in fact. And they found some solution not to do anything, that's all. It's always the SDP to do when it needs to be solved, best to put it all in a drawer and take the time. And we have a situation that's going to have to get rid of it now, and I say something's settled, and the deputy's gone because she's out of office. And the fact remains that the commission never wanted to admit that they made a mistake. And Mrs. Oreshkovic strongly defended it in her report, and she just re-attacked the agency and said that they were the sole culprits and that they had not properly applied the acquis and the EU and Croatian laws, and that they had done everything, and they eventually admitted that they could have had a technical solution, that they should not have downloaded all the property cards and that everything could have remained out there without any big stories. But that's over, I guess there's a better time for us to get these things right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36400	Thank you very much. Next individual debate of counterparts Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Director of the Agency with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the thing, before I move on to the subject, I can't help but notice how much I love listening to my colleagues from HDZ solve problems. Here we could witness today one of their problems, and that's Lex Agrokor, and what's going to be of him, we'll see in the future. But we go back to the subject, which is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. When we're discussing the agency here I don't have to describe its detour and activity, I often like to say it's one of our misunderstood agencies. What do I mean by that? I'm talking about the same thing every time I discuss it with our attorneys, that citizens often don't know what the defense attorneys are for, that so often they don't know why they're serving the agency. I'd like to see it, and I believe the director can also confirm how many submissions you get that don't even apply to your part-time work, just people don't know. And here I agree with counterpart Paric that education is extremely important for several reasons. The colleague Borić who has now left spoke about the availability of mail data that comes to your home addresses, etc., etc. But colleagues and colleagues, we need to distinguish which data we voluntarily give to become public and who are our own personal ones that we can protect, but if we want to. The phone book of a colleague and a colleague is a public record. It says your name and last name, phone number and most common address. If you noticed all the operators ask you if you want it to be public information, can we blame someone who feels hurt if he has given consent to his name and phone number as public data. And I don't think so. That someone may then ask that information be removed, that it is no longer public. But we all know that the phonebooks are online, so on the Internet, that you have both facebooks and other social networks, etc., that most of the data that are once released on the Internet remains available forever. This is about photos, data, texts, etc., etc. So once you put something on a facebook it's forever on a facebook whether you remove it or not, I'm saying, of course figuratively not literally. The same thing is, it also refers to data that you can find online. Now, we have to draw this line which is a breach of privacy, which is an unprepared provision of information or what is someone's abuse of data available in these or those banks of data that are not necessarily public. You have a very interesting debate that is being held in the world public today, which is the fact that soon, at least so some authors will be able to buy the history of your surfing. So you surf off your personal computer, off your tablet, off your phone, some service providers either Internet, any browsers etc., which you can free download will be able to download your data, so where you surfed, where you were on, how long you were on, etc., selling. It's perfectly legal. You know why? Because you have those terms of use that you probably agreed to. And that's why we have a very important education, which is why it's very important that you read before you click on something just to agree because your personal data, my data and data are constantly exposed to abuses, let's just say so, and I would, I wouldn't have used it so harshly, but they're exposed to being used by third parties that we may not want to use, but we willingly agreed to have those data available. I would like to draw your attention to one more thing, when we talk about the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which is also related to a wider story of the Republic of Croatia, namely, we have decided to enter the Schengen area and Schengen, we all know what it means and I believe that many colleagues do not know that this agency will play a significant role in entering the Schengen area or in implementing the Schengen evaluation. What exactly does that mean? This means that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data will be supervised by the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the customs administration through SIS II and VIS systems. It is a huge job of colleagues and colleagues, a huge job that requires exceptional human resources as well as infrastructure. If any of this is scheduled, then from this surveillance, if there is a failure, above all, due to insufficient agency resources, our entire Schengen and everything that has so far been invested in the Schengen evaluation. This is a very important piece of information from a colleague and a colleague, and I would especially like to see it done by colleagues and colleagues who act in power, so who are the ruling majority, that we have an obligation to help the agency fulfill these tasks. I mentioned more the General Data Protection Regulation, which enters into force on 25 May 2018. The human resources needed depend on them very much, we all know what Schengen is and because of one small link in this system, and in this case, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data can lose a lot and we know that we have invested a lot of it. It is also a general provision when we talk about the protection of the personal data of the Republic of Croatia, but the Agency is also given new powers, tasks and competences which we must bear in mind, therefore, through Schengen as well as through other species. And I'm afraid that, at least as far as I'm concerned, I'm allowing my guidance, that I'm not so deep in the subject, but I'm allowed to say that my layman if you want personal opinion that so far the agency doesn't have enough resources to do these jobs correctly. We need to be aware of this because we cannot transfer responsibility to, to, or to, the director or to others who may be in his place tomorrow if we, as legislators and as Government, as politicians do not make sure that these resources are provided. So we're talking about the budget, we're talking about I don't know the redistribution of certain employees or new employment, etc., etc. Also, as far as I know, the process of amending national legislation regarding the protection of personal data has been launched and is likely to be released somewhere by the end of this year. Therefore, there will likely be some other obligations of the agency that the agencies will have to carry out, which will change and not necessarily the jurisdiction but the scope of the work and the way we look at the protection of personal data. And I'd end up with this, so two things we need to be aware of when we're talking about the Data Protection Agency. So the first thing is that the data we're willing to give, there's the agency, unfortunately, I mean, it can't protect us, if you agreed, by saying yes, someone asked you to have some information that you want to be public, published, which you do then. So in case of an address or a phone number, but also some other things. The other thing is when these data were misused or when they occurred in an illegal manner. And the other thing is this very great task that the agency is going to have, which is very important to me, and that is the implementation of the Schengen evaluation that is extremely important to us. We want Croatia to be in the Schengen area, we want a free flow of goods and services and even more freely, so it is free to join the EU but I believe that by entering Schengen it will also be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36402	Thank you very much. We have a replica of a colleague of Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36403	Dear Vice President, I thank you. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, I am pleased that you mentioned this SIS system because it is a very extensive information system and it will also contain data on persons but also data on objects throughout the EU and even people will be able to individually search the system. Of course, the agency doesn't have those resources at the moment, but our legislative framework is also not up to it. And that is why it is very fortunate that this European directive General is given to us or as it is called 25.5.2108. will rightly condition that the Croatian regulators comply with all these tasks. And that's why it's a good thing we're already preparing for that assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36404	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36405	Thank you, colleague. I'm glad there's awareness on the part of the rulings about how important this is, how important, how rooted the problem is, let's say it is. We had opportunities to see, or you could see if you followed and foreign media some countries had tried to introduce similar systems before. And it's always been a big debate for you who can access what data, which the state has on you, whether it can only be done by officials from the department that cover if they're customs officers, so if you customs anything if the medical staff are from that part alone, etc. etc. They often had the controversial names of the big brother and the like. This is going to be the same kind of system. As you said, it will be available throughout the EU. It will be highly challenging not only for our agency but for the EU as a whole to preserve these data from possible abuses. So I'm glad there's awareness of this. I am also pleased that we have reacted more or less in time that we will have to introduce some things from the European, so that European regulations will force us to do so conditionally, to change our legislation by the end of the year, which is extremely important precisely because we are up to these new challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36406	Thank you very much. And the final individual debate by Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36407	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, the Honored Director and Associates and colleagues and colleagues. Well, now that we've started this regulation that will come into effect on May 25, 2018, maybe we should say something about it right now so that our citizens actually understand what this is about. We can ask about the following questions. Do we want to know who in the medical system is reading our medical records? I believe a good part of us would like that information. If we wanted to see, for example, a month back who had access to all our financial data, that would be the same for some interesting ones. Do we want to know which personal information about us collects, for example, some kind of mobile app or even a website via cookies. It's probably the same for a lot of interesting people. Can we ask Google right now to give us information on where to store our personal data that we stored in Gmail or in some email that goes through them, even in the office, and that it might even allow us to transmit them, to download them. That and a lot of other things and even let's say the data multiples card or similar card with which the data they distribute to ours. How much does someone buy a month's alcohol? All this information will be made available to us by this regulation which takes effect on 25.5.2018, i.e. we have the right to know that information, because that General Day Regulation still has a longer name. And that regulation has already been called the strictest personal data protection law in the world. And there have been certain debates at EU level about this, but this is how some advantages are expressed. I see it as an advantage anyway. What I'm more focused on when we talk about the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and their detour is that, it's fraud. In fact, fraud, identity theft, and you still don't know how to deal with it because our legal regulations didn't quite get there. Most of the time, it is said that in 2015 there were 50 items, but there are a lot more than one of these cases because many citizens do not report that certain persons make one or more contracts with multiple telecommunications operators and then fake, so they cheat on someone's ID card, or even the company's stamp if it's a legal person. A few contracts are concluded, they get free cell phones even a few phones from different telephony operators, and then eventually these people are neither guilty nor obliged to receive other people's accounts. And now there have been so many cases, and I remember the case and I'm personally familiar with it. One lady was just a victim of fraud and theft of personal data, and she said about, I remember that two phones were taken from a telephony operator in her name, so a few more phones were taken from another telephony operator and that she had a total of 7 subscriptions from different telephony operators to her company. And for six months she was getting bills and she couldn't possibly prove it wasn't her. Even one letter in the last name was wrong. And she hired a lawyer, she reported to the police, contacted HACOM, so to the Network Activities Regulatory Agency, she contacted the Personal Data Protection Agency, but of course it takes, takes time and duration. And during that time, of course, there's a do-over. And obviously it's a matter of some being a good stalker job and of course it's a crime. And at the consumer association they always said report, always report to all of these items from HACOM, from the agency, from the police. Of course the methods of fraud are different. Sometimes contracts are signed even in a sales place, and that's a special case. The agency is very well aware of that. Apparently, someone didn't do their job there. Sometimes it's a web order, so it's in somebody else's name. So, the easiest way to get data from someone's I.D. Your data is enough to make some purchases online. But what's the most important? It must be said that according to the current legislation, the process of proving that someone is not, that you are not someone who has taken these phones and has been terribly ill-sufficient, he is terribly ill-sufficient and unequal. And now, for example, you have a case, so in current practice, that one operator, because of all of the above, immediately does the subscription and says it's okay, you're not that person, but at the same time the other operator says no. It's not you you have to prove it, etc. the third teleoperer says that it has allowed it 270 days to begin with its accounts until it is established whether that person and the third or fourth operator has not appeared at all. So the total inequality in that sense, and therefore the time of the lady was, of course, on account. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, I must commend her on this well-response, was in particular both this case and well in accordance with the legislation because you have a lot of experience with this falsified data. And we can ask the question, why, in all teleoperators, when we say delivering a shipment to the user, the courier who comes in here doesn't ask for a ID card, often doesn't ask for one. So to write down the number of IDs on the ticket, that's, say, a banana case where something might already be solved. And not to say if the subscription contract is forged, it is immediately necessary to do so and HACOM can, of course, do so in a co-operation agreement between the two agencies and the regulatory agency must do so. Sometimes they do, sometimes they need more time for individual cases, sometimes they react only after the media warns them so there are some cases on some shows, etc. So the problem is otherwise the slowness of institutions, in that sense, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data did not have that problem because I see that she dealt with these cases quite urgently, and that should be said. But with some institutions, in particular HACOM had been through more than seven months where absolutely nothing happened after the application, and during that time it was an act instead of having a forged subscription account immediately done so. There are a lot of such similar situations, only a few end up in the media because some people simply don't know what their rights are, of course control by operators and distributors should be tighter. They have small numbers in their business, even though they have a problem with it operators. But for a natural person it's a terrible problem, and sanctions for serial fraud should be arranged in some way. That is why this amendment is important and I am simply pleased to see that Croatian legislation will go into step with this directive and I think that this will solve a lot of problems, the more the Croatian legislation is due a year after the adoption of the directive to incorporate it. So I think they didn't want us to have to settle these things, and I hope that she and I will go in the best way when we have the law on paper then and apply it in practice. And I expect the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data to be teamed up, still be successful in what it has been in so far, and what there have possibly been gaps and some kind of inequality to be fixed anyway. But I will support this report personally and the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36408	Thank you very much. We have a replica, colleague Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36409	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as a rule, people today have no idea how often, knowingly or unconsciously, they leave their data in different places and personal and not personal and whatever they exist. And in principle, they do it hard and simple and easy not thinking about the consequences. No one in principle wonders where the cost of different membership cards, the MultiPlus card and the others you mentioned, why do they give you free kunas, points, why do they follow through cash registers and everything else? So they know your daily habits, your life habits, what you buy, what you spend, how you feel, where you buy. That's how they adapt the local market to you. It's all personal data, and people don't have the slightest sense of who's dealing with their personal data. With this Regulation from the day it enters or enters into the Directive when it enters into force until the day of its implementation, it will probably take some time, but something like this could cause a revolution in the future on the protection of personal data. We in Croatia have this famous system of e-Citizens who can support such a service tomorrow, even in time thought about giving the OIB system in principle messages to who is using all your data, in the OIB system in tax to get into the system of e-Citizens and it is without a problem to expand to everything else. This makes citizens aware overnight who is using their data, of course, if they use that system. At that moment when they become aware of it, they'll start to wonder why someone's using my data. When they start asking that question, they'll ask you, and when they start asking you, you wouldn't be in your skin if there's a lot of work going on. Can you imagine today you have said 350 thousand users of the e-Citizens system, that only one change of these people a day asks you something, and in the near perspective of how things go these numbers will probably climb to a million, two and more in which case we will all have to think together how well the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data will need to be and what all the scope of the work will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36410	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36411	Thank you very much, Vice President. It is exactly the respected colleague Paric, we know that the right to the protection of personal data and the secrecy of personal data and the Constitution guarantees the category. And this when you mention it, so even with that regulation, how much I have been able to read that regulation, we will be able to find out who in the MUP is accessing our car registration, residence, residence, etc. They claim that all these categories will be resolved by a regulation. The agency currently does not have the authority to conduct infringements, is that correct, therefore, and police always say that abuse of such personal data on the web and in general in the virtual world is not known who has abused something until the other side abuses it. Or we don't know if anyone stole our data until they've already used it somewhere, and it's a post-festum effect, so we don't know the moment they were stolen, but at the time they were already abused. So, according to this regulation, we'll even be able to get the right to forget, so-called. The right to forget that when we no longer want our personal data processed, then we will be able to file a request not to hold them. And as I recall, even the facebook has already started working on this European space on a third database, just preparing for this regulation because now it changes the whole business of these big mega systems. So I was really a mildly impressed when I saw this regulation because today, to keep personal data in the virtual world is almost impossible. And I think this is one of the better EU regulations, and I am happy that Croatia will feel the benefits of that regulation in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36412	Thank you very much. And we have a final debate on behalf of the SDP club colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since counterpart Perijevcanin Vuksanovic, in response to his reply in the replica, referred to my presentation, this is my only business opportunity to answer, mathematically precisely. First of all, it is not true that the cause of the conflict between the Commission for the conflict of interest and the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is an amendment to the 2015 Act but is the opposite. So the revision of the 2015 law came after the AZOP conflict and the Committee for Conflict of Interest. As regards the right, the constitutional right to the protection of personal data, I would like to inform you that the Constitutional Court has taken the following position on 7 November 2012, I will read it: "The Constitutional Court finds that the contested legal solution is clearly and precisely formulated and its effects are certain and predictable. Candidates for all public duties must accept such a legal solution if they wish to behave in those duties. If they do not agree to a legal solution, they may freely decide not to apply for those duties or to refuse appointments’, etc., etc. The officials therefore accepted that they agreed to run for office and to act on reduced protection of personal data against "ordinary" citizens. Therefore, this part of the conflict between the AZOP and the Committee on Conflict of Interest was resolved by the Constitutional Court in 2012 and, nevertheless, the AZOP then went one step towards the Committee on Conflict of Interest. And in the end, one big media, one big political problem came from their own boxing. It was therefore a clear message that the Committee of Conflict of Interest and officials are exempt from this part of the law concerning the protection of personal data, which is precisely envisaged and written what and if the Constitutional Court abolishes that provision it has already been in force for almost two years and it has not been abolished yet. So it still exists, it is applied and cannot be retroactively abolished, though. The property cards in this range were returned to the web committees for conflict of interest before this debate was held in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, it was implemented on April 20th in 14.5.2015, and the AZOP solution came to the public at the beginning of the 5th month, and this one, this one media campaign, began from then on. And also as far as it goes, that's what Mr. Boris was saying, so as far as our relationship with the agency's leadership is concerned, we showed him by voting for the 2014 report. The HDZ Club was then against the report and you as HRID's representative were restrained, so it has the same thing on the web. I was otherwise surprised by the position of the agency's head, not Mr. Rajkovaca, but by his deputy, who asked the DIP to delete the information on who was running for what office in the election. And we had in the DIP one then as minister of administration, one quite a meeting in which I tried to explain that whoever ran and entered the political game must be available, so it must be known who the candidates were. Because the fact that someone was a candidate in the election of a political party is, for example, one of his appointments to a public office or worse, on official or non-political duty may be an indicator or the fact that it is a political appointment and that it is good to know. And in that sense, it was difficult for us at that time to explain to the colleagues of the AZOP where this section of the Constitutional Court ended, so that the proportionality and behaviour of public duty, so that it stopped such a measure of protection of personal data as ordinary citizens. In this respect, the SDP club, by voting on the 2014 report, gives further support to the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data with... With a vote on the 2015 report, we will not plead on the work of the Agency's leadership that we support but only on the fact that in 2015 they committed one violation or slip from two legs, which they deserved at least yellow if not then in our opinion the red card. [[You don't understand a word.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36414	Thank you very much. Replica co-worker Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36415	I'm very glad you took advantage of the opportunity to answer me. I'll tell you right now, I would be and now I'm as abstentioned as I am then restrained because legal interpretation is one thing and political is the other. And that's why I was restrained. Is it politically above legal? Well, now it's a conflict, in a way, two sides. And what I said, I'm still standing there, but I'm not going to get into the controversy right now because I know that the director of the agency and my colleagues are actually going to repeat what I said and you can see that I'm not with them because I've been held back. So this is actually a legal interpretation. And what I said, I have to do it again. So in such cases, state authorities must apply Union law by leaving the opposite regulation of national law as far as it sounds to us now may be colonising by the EU, but that is, that is, the fact, I just said it. I have not entered the political relations of the SDP or HDZ or in the relations between Dalia Oreshkovic and I do not know the director of this agency. So it's just a legal interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36416	Thank you very much. Replic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36417	And now you're in a legal and political relationship when you didn't get into these relationships. So, I once tried to explain it in my junior days in the Assembly to Mr. Shakespeare, and he told me that in fact, only political will was shaped in legal form. So in this country, the government has a parliament, not agencies, not courts. The Parliament adopts laws and what is legally written is the expression of the political will of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I do not see a conflict of legal and political at all. I just want to know who the government is, and the government is a Parliament that is restricted by the Constitution and what he wants to implement through the laws. Today, we passed such a law, for example, where we showed who the government is. So we've changed some relationships deeply. I said somewhere that we'd hit the worst capitalism since '45. So they told me some weren't since '45. It's been since '58. It's around here somewhere. Therefore, it is a relationship between legal and political. And now we come to the question of what is the EU and there are institutions chosen by the people, in the multitude of the EU people. These are the European Parliament. It is then derived from the European Commission. And I'm not some big fan of the Brussels bureaucracy. I think that in fact the EU has a certain democratic deficit and that it should approach the choice of EU bodies and bodies in a different way and that people are under-experienced by the EU as their own and as someone who participates in this. Therefore, in the EU, Croatia has its own representatives, which we have chosen in the European Parliament. They represent different parties, represent their country. Therefore, if they want to express their political will through the European Parliament, they can. There's no legal or political conflict behind me. So it is legal, the legal norm is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is the expression of political will 2/3 and then, within that framework, the parliamentary majority adopts its laws in a legal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36418	Thank you very much. And the final review by my colleague, Anto Rajkovich.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36419	It was very interesting to listen to discussions and questions and I am personally impressed by the knowledge of matter here among you most of you who have discussed indeed all the honors. It is difficult now probably in a somewhat shorter time than objectively and can be said precisely, to answer all the questions that are being, are being eliminated or are being directly placed here. But I will try in several important segments only in the final review, and given that we have carefully recorded and a detailed course of discussion, I am obliged to make sure that individual MPs and representatives of all those doubts and potential ambiguities and issues are given a written answer as full information. I'd start off with the freshest discussion here a little bit. I've got to take it easy and smile, you won't mind. During the 2014 report, the central part of the debate was also the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest and agencies, and it can be said in a good way that even now this issue has somehow come up in the first place in this discussion, i.e. the 2015 report, I hope when we are soon to shoot the 2016 report that it will not be, that everything that was to be discussed on this subject has been discussed. I just want to say that without the intention of justifying the agency or accusing someone else absolutely not. I just want to say that in this situation someone, and not the agency, is a classic legal issue, has turned a classical legal act into a media-political harangus, and I would end it. I really wouldn't want to say anything more about it. The agency is really with all its employees and here I am still at the head of the agency. Mrs. Deputy's term expired in the fifth month of last year. So there are no deputies with employees and even through objectively possible capacities we try to work daily to address the problem of submissions by citizens, bodies, institutions. We try to do as much as possible within the time limit and absolutely upholding the letters of the law, or regulations, no matter how dry and smut it may sound, but it is within the limits and frameworks of existing laws. I see that the importance of the general regulation is recognised, both in principle and individually, which in the Republic of Croatia as one universal legal act or universal EU law on this subject will begin to apply with May 2018, and that from a few discussions I conclude a really great interest even in warning to all of us individually and in general that this is a really important issue, a really important era that comes and that the agency, regardless of whether it is in this form or in some other form or it will be called or otherwise, does not matter. One such body will indeed play an extremely important role, far greater than it is now. Because this Regulation goes into direct application in the Republic of Croatia. National legislation will likely be formed on some issues which are parallel to or beyond which the regulation does not cover, but such as the appointment of leaders, such as possible adjustments related to the organisation and structure of the future, etc., possible terms, but here is the information 10th i.e. On Monday, the task force is meeting for the first time to try to implement an adequate national regulation related to the problem. Mr. Secretary of State chaires and manages this task force, we are from agencies and members of various other ministries and bodies members and part of that team and we hope on the basis of previous experiences that we will adequately respond to the legal normation of that part of the activity. It is indicated that if I have written well, and I have, Mr. Representative Darko Parić has mentioned on several occasions the importance of education, the importance of education in the function of prevention and we experience it so, it means to develop the widest and improved and raised the widest awareness of all the public and those aimed at the importance of careful and only protective treatment when it comes to sharing or giving personal data to each of us anywhere and anywhere. I think about the big mega systems and the IT future and the weather that I really think is an excellent talk, and I'm not even an expert in this area, so I'm afraid to say anything, but I kind of recognize how wide the problem is to realize how much we all really need to think at all whether we objectively have privacy, whether our personal data are fully protected or maximum protected, or maybe the case is opposite. I assure you here everything as well as ourselves and associates that we are really doing our utmost to comply with the legal obligation and as much as possible, more seriously, to get into that fight and try to protect the personal data of our citizens in the first order and the respondents in the situations when they address us. And all these wide-ranging activities, and I'm also going to say something about them, in terms of education, prevention, public awareness, we're trying to further improve this aspect so that everyone in general can be satisfied. There is always a question of how pleased we are and whether we have been successful. We feel that under further circumstances and further possibilities, we have done our job solidly or well, alluding that we should certainly try to do it even better. However, there are also some objective criteria and objective difficulties that make it impossible to provide any guarantee that this will be the case except that we try to do the maximum, which are limits of financial nature, human resources, technical and all others. We are also trying to get some personnel in terms of activation in employment, and with regard to all the obligations arising from the Schengen evaluation, we are the first evaluation round in the Schengen story to pass over the past year. For your information, we have received a very positive impression and a positive report when it comes to the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, more focus on the problem of material nature, which is building essentially technical settings, border crossings and all that follows that entry into that Schengen family. During this year, there will also be a second round and a third round of evaluations by mostly the MUP and other ministries where the agency will certainly participate. We participate in coordination to the extent that we are present, we always try to make a contribution that all together goes in a positive direction and in a positive direction. There have also been specific questions about the education plans themselves, and also about some targeted surveillance plans. As far as education is concerned we are really scattered around Croatia, I would say here and now we are trying to educate a maximum number of what public authorities of local administrations, self-government, what other stakeholders of personal data issues wherever this process is happening. So right now only with the county community in the cycle of education by most seats, then the HGK therefore business subjects for several years, in the last year intensely. Schools, children, young especially... groups and particularly vulnerable to the abuse of personal data, especially through social networks etc. But you have one paradox, and I have to take it out here, so you'll actually see what reality we're trying to deal with, too. In the last two years, we have published a tender for the reception of IT experts. Do you know how many people have responded to that competition? None, therefore, is objectivity. We'll find them, we'll find them, either way, catch the young ones from the university, etc., but we'll find them to strengthen here, first of all, the control component. In this year, although it has also been over the past years surveillance activities have grown apart and we are really doing everything and organisationally, humanely, to improve it. For this year we specifically plan so-called. sectoral supervision by different segments of social action and entities both public and business. And we hope for the maximum fulfillment of this plan, which is very, very ambitious. We'll see, we'll get the data and we'll see about it in this year's report, and you'll see from that. A lot of this has been said about the situation relating to the demand collection agencies and they are related to the activities of banks, the activities of teleoperators and other business entities. There are, of course, the agency is acting and in such situations it has experienced practice, there are countless legal acts adopted on the subject either through temporary solutions, or through permanent solutions. But that example of me that I set in the opening statement, I think it shows the reality, which is a wave of teleoperators and such legal entities. You know as an attorney's office, we're just going indiscriminately into a lawsuit and almost ends the story, so we're going to press charges, etc., which is why the administrative court is in the same case twice as much of a deal, judge, which is a terrible delay in the time of a final legal solution, primarily in favour of the parties that are talking to us and to our subjects for which we primarily exist if we want to protect identities, we want to protect individuals' personal data. There's a story meaning double, and agencies appear as if they're essentially perpetrators of processing under the current law, based on contracted contracts again in accordance with the law with the credentials that define what they are precisely and precisely doing on their behalf. It's also one of the supervisory activities if we determine that there's some kind of reactive possibility being narrowed down to us if it's a legitimate procedure. The other thing is in situations where the transfer of the claim occurs, meaning from one to the other, then most often in practice the situation of insufficient information or the failure to inform the parties that the debt has been transferred from agency X to agency Y or transferred from credentials A to agency X, etc. And of course here, the logical thing is, it's governed by the Law on Mandatory Relations which specify these procedures, most often by some kind of cessium, etc.. So we re-establish in every action, in each supervisory activity we establish a legal basis, i.e. the basis and purpose of such a processing. And if we determine irregularities and it's not a rare case when we determine, we bring accordingly what the law allows us to do, solutions that we forbid or which we order to fix, delete, which we make recommendations about how better business entities should work, etc. I fell for my ears, or attention to tiny letters on many contracts, documents that I don't even read personally, and I believe so many people. Therefore, these general rules that business entities have clearly put forward in practice are situations that are not transparently or insufficiently transmitted as information to clients, so that the client knows whether or not to give, will not give the information, if he does not provide, whether it is a consent or some other legal basis which requires his personal data. The specificity of consent is therefore as a legal basis, it can be withdrawn at any time and that is the notorous legal constant. There were also questions asked, a comment that really would not be part of the Agency's work, so I don't know, I have nothing to comment on, but whatever I said and committed ourselves, we will deliver to individual representatives, MPs a written explanation with full information about the problem. I have to see if I'm anything else, well, here's what I'd like to end up with if, and thank you, of course, for the attention you've shown, and I repeat again on really interesting discussions, those positively immersed with great joy and try to improve our work and those conditionally negatively intonated will also be accepted as criticism and re-installed in better work in the future. And once again, I thank you for your attention and here's all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36420	Thank you very much. And we have two replicas. A colleague of Arsen Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36421	There is a certain likelihood that the debate, the 2016 report, will not tie up the events of 2015 unless something similar happens in the meantime, then you will be bound by what was from 2015 and I will still remember something that is. Therefore, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has a large or at least not small enough impact on certain political developments and it is quite certain that persons with political experience were immediately aware of how much media attention would cause the removal of property cards from the Committee's website of conflict of interest. And what happened was someone was in the agency with a certain political experience wouldn't have happened, because when you drop an atomic bomb, then you shouldn't be surprised by radiation. What's good about radiation is that after a certain time, radioactivity is reduced, so it's halved, etc. So with a certain amount of time coming up that no one ever asked what happened to the government's request to resolve the head of the agency, then it was forgotten and put in a drawer and that's how it is. But to keep it going, they wouldn't even be avoiding it. So it was a government reaction in that sense. And, of course, as far as political events are concerned, you should approach political activities with some caution so that the next debate does not have political connotations, and these experts, of course, were positive and grateful.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36422	Thank you very much. A fellow Parish.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36423	Thank you. I didn't mean to, but I've got to do something else. You said you had called a tender for an IT expert and no one answered. [[I didn't mean it either.]] You know why? Because the state has no idea what an IT expert is, has no idea what he's serving, what he's doing, or how much he's worth. If she were to run into him on the street, she wouldn't recognize him. That's why no information expert came forward. They are regularly in the state apparatus, the ministries are located in secretaries deeply low in the systemization, highly underpaid, highly neglected as operators who input data into the system or something. Information experts on the market are worth a lot more than they are worth in the country and what the state is looking at and should watch. And that's why they're not answering you, they're aware of that. And they'll start reporting one day when the state realizes how much they're worth. But if the information experts decided to shut down at one point all those systems that the state and the people in the ministry think that by word or already how they operate without anyone in the Holy Scriptures so that the state would already stop instantly long before thousands and thousands of workers come out and I don't know what. It would all stop if only a few thousand IT experts in the state shut down what they're doing. And this Parliament, if the IT experts shut down this information around us, would immediately stop. So, I just had to get back to getting this out of my system. And you won't be hearing from information experts much longer. Well, I hope it won't be long, but it won't be coming up until the moment until the state and state apparatus realizes that it and people who keep IT something that's under the sea, something that needs to be paid, something that needs to be maintained and something that people who do it appreciate. These people must not be as low as the operators who enter data into systems, but must be in a system at a place of value, for which they are worth and where they belong. And when that happens, you won't have a problem reporting information experts. But I won't ask you that. I'm done. I'm sorry. Think about the salary you've offered this information expert, so you'll understand. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36424	Thank you very much. We've concluded the debate with this. We vote when conditions are met. Right? Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 from the Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2015 HAKO and will conclude with this tomorrow. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Session interrupted at 17.36 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-06-0.u36425	We move to a vote on the points discussed. The first item is the report on the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency for 2015. The report shall be submitted to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2015 is hereby adopted. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 113 for, 1 abstention and 1 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The SDP representative club has proposed to the Assembly a conclusion that this report is being taken into account, and this is without prejudice to vote since we have adopted the report in accordance with the proposal of the working bodies.
