ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55833	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the events of the recent days related to the work of the court in The Hague.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55834	Haag? Okay. A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55835	On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the current political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55836	You got it. Have you heard from your colleague, Glasnović? No. No. Okay. [[Invader Glasnović: Nothing today.]] Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55837	Mr. President, please take a break on behalf of the HDZ Club regarding the International Day of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55838	Okay. Then we continue at 9:00 and 45 minutes. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is a respected colleague of Bunjac on behalf of the Living Walls Club and SANGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55840	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This week we witnessed the completion of the Hague Court's work, which marked our modern history, and most of all by causing numerous controversy. It is regrettable that at the moment of the tragedy that occurred the day before yesterday when certain politicians and parties delivered their final verdicts did not react calmly and with dignity but in some ways created hysteria, although it was necessary to remain calm, said eventually their political comment, but not to call for violence, used a primitive dictionary that we could even witness in this House of Commons because some representatives of the ruling coalition called for a physical account and to throw things at other MPs. Next, it is not surprising that their sympathisers called for the murder of these same certain politicians. It is a pity that until today morning HDZ as the largest party in the ruling coalition has not been fenced from calling for violence. On the other hand, GLASA representatives and the vast majority of SDP representatives did not come to say a minute of silence, although the minute of silence was for all the dead Croatian defenders and for all the victims of work in Croatia and BiH, in which there is absolutely nothing controversial. No last name or last name was mentioned for a minute yesterday, neither. And on that side of the reaction we saw that the MPs didn't come to the Assembly was also excessive, unnecessary. A little cold-blooded in events the last three days would be welcome to all of us. And what we can say about The Hague Court is that this court at the very least made strange judgments, vague and illogical. He would single out only three cases, the first completely innocent General Ante Gotovina, was sentenced to 20 years in prison by a first-degree verdict. Second, war criminal Vojislav Seselj was released without guilt, reportedly was terminally ill, and now we see clearly that he was not sick at all but released by someone's order. The third thing, General Sljivancan, who captured Vukovar, only got ten years in prison. And what people can now conclude about that if we in Croatia are giving for one murder, a hard murder 40 years in prison, and the one who destroyed the whole city committed unremembered war crimes only got 10 and now continues to enjoy freedom. No matter what, we can still conclude that in The Hague, individuals were primarily tried, no matter how controversial it is, there was tried by people with their names and names, they were not tried by the armies, and at least they were tried by states or nations. What I can tell you as a representative, but also as a historian, be assured that whatever those judgments are that the Hague Court will not write us history, nor will they write to us, nor would they even know how to write it. On this side, the Croatian public can be calm. What we can also take as the only positive consequence of this whole case is that the Hague court stops working and that it will no longer make any judgments, that after 20 years or more, I would finally dare say, we get rid of them. What remains as a lesson to us is the fact that the next time Croatia extradites its citizens to anyone or recognises the jurisdiction of any international court must think very, very carefully, as they would say in the people count to ten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55841	Second debate of the Independent Lists' Club of Representatives and esteemed counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55842	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He would also like to be a man who participated in the Homeland War in BiH as well as numerous colleagues in the Parliament and our Croatian defenders who are following these days with the despair and bitterness of these events, this cry by General Praljak once again told the Hague verdicts of turning the truth. And of course what hurts the most and Croatian defenders and what is the strongest, the clearest cry of General Praljak, are the policies of Croatia that have forgotten these people while they themselves defended our interests. The fact that it must never be repeated to the Croatian defender, the Croatian general, the Croatian citizen who was delivered what happened to the six, what happened to Gotovina, Markac, to all who were delivered and that the state worked against them and worked in the interest of the prosecution. It's so clear, and I'm going to mention here Stepan Mesic, who was dealing transcripts, who was publicly and recording cameras, sides, and it's sad. However, he is not and the only last days have been mentioned, and counterpart Vesna Pusic, who, on behalf of the HNS, kept saying that the Croatian state has committed aggression against BiH. It's a lie. If it hadn't been for Croatian soldiers, there would have been no Croatia and neither would BiH. We need to remember everything that's happened since our six in The Hague, from the unkind words of Vladimir Seks to locate, arrest, transfer and process. During Mesic, Sanader, these people, is it possible that today's Minister Nina was wearing the book of General Pralj, who documented the Homeland War, in this area declared a ham? Could Mr. Jandrokovic have done more then as foreign minister? Did he protect the Croats in BiH and have he fought against the third... Croatians being equally legal in BiH? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is Minister Bozinovic, who is today the face of Croatian politics, the interior minister, a man who is obviously not ashamed of anything. He's certainly not going to blush, let alone drink the poison I don't want, but I want him to have a little cheek, a little regret about what happened today. Davor Bozinović is a man who was in '87. The year became an adviser to the Republic Secretariat for the National Defence of Croatia. The Secretariat, who credited Croatia with disarmament when the territorial defence weapons were handed over to JNA. Davor Bozinovic is a man who became an ambassador to Serbia at the time of Racan's government in 2000. Davor Bozinovic is a man who has been a person of the highest confidence since 2004 to be appointed representative of his office. Interestingly and accidentally that same year, a indictment was filed against the Hague Six. Davor Bozinović is the man who... On the right, the day before yesterday, he was hypocritically standing next to Plenkovic playing grief. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let him openly state what kind of policy he was leading, especially when he was head of office in 2004 to Stjepan Mesic. Mr Bozinovicu as a key person of Stjepan Mesic, you are now Minister of the Interior, which you have done for our six, for the protection of our interests in Croatia and Croats in BiH. Tell the public openly, let's talk about it, the truth is that our President of the Parliament also shows a document from WikiLeaks against Croats, an open radio against Croats in BiH. And in the end to my comrades and today to Minister Damir Krstičević, I want to tell Tommy Bear, don't be silent. Our comrade General Praljak made this so we wouldn't keep our mouths shut. General Praljak told everyone what was going on and that's what we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55843	Comrade Bulj, you are very incorrect and do not convey exactly what has happened and what is part of history, so please do not do this. If you have any objections, we can talk, so I'll explain everything to you, not to comment again on the newspaper texts and plantings that have been happening to me through my career. All right? I mean, there are too many serious things to call me here for treason. Can you hear me? ... Dude, Bull, be careful what you say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55844	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for the permitted violation of the Rules of Procedure. You broke article 238 because you accused me and threatened me to watch what I said. I'm saying what I said 10 years ago when I was being defended and told about this, when I was being defended from participating in Alca for this and the speech during Sanader, because I was protecting and defending both the generals as an ordinary man and from The Hague tribunal and persecution from that and such policy. Therefore, I have expressed my position, to one who is not clear what I have said can be listened to again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55845	Let's move on, the third is the honorary colleague Ljubica Lukacic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55846	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In two days, on Sunday, December 3rd, we mark the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. On that day, several days earlier and later, a series of events will be held to warn people with disabilities about their position in the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday, Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and his associates received representatives of associations and alliances of persons with disabilities from all over Croatia to see what has been done in the last year, where we are now and what are our priorities in 2018. The joint work of persons with disabilities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proved to be very fruitful this year. I'll just point out briefly what we did this year. In this House of Commons, we have passed a series of laws that improve the quality of life for people with disabilities. At the level of the ministries, we also brought a series of sublegal acts that also improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. I am particularly pleased to say today that this High House has done everything possible to allow the meetings of the Parliament and the meetings of the Government to be monitored by our deaf citizens. What is extremely important is that people with disabilities are satisfied, however, that they still face one key problem, which is a relatively low level, still low level of awareness of them. Therefore, I ask you colleagues and colleagues, your representatives in this House, as well as all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, including the media, that together, we raise awareness of people with disabilities, because that is the only way we will be able to equalise their opportunities. People with disabilities deserve that. Don't do this out of compassion, but because it is bound by the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities signed by the Republic of Croatia as 3 countries in the world, it has ratified us as 4 countries. I therefore believe that in 2018, we will bring an even greater number of legal regulations, which will improve the quality of life for people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u55847	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62869	We move to the next - Final Bill on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, second reading, P.Z. No. 200. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Whether or not the representative of the motionor or State Secretary Mr Zeljko Tufekčić wishes to take the introductory word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62870	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So, before you there is a final draft law on the financing of units of local self-government. The proposal itself was discussed in the first reading and accepted in this High House in early October. What I can say is that we are pleased that the debate has indeed been constructive, and that we, as proposings, have further considered everything that has been said here. Let me give a brief review of the reasons for the adoption, and of the basic objectives and purpose of the adoption of the new law in the way it is now proposed by the final draft of the law. So, the current law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government was passed as early as 1993 and has been amended even 13 times so far. On the other hand, the adoption of a new law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government is part of a comprehensive and comprehensive tax reform that started in 2016. This law intends to define in a simpler, more understandable and fairer way the income distribution system of income tax, the system of fiscal balancing of units of local and regional self-government, and the system of financing decentralised functions. It is also intended to define a system that will provide all units of local and regional self-government with the potential to provide a comparable level of public services. The intensity and ambition of this law is not arbitration in the area of regional development, demographic reconstruction and other similar problems facing Croatia. This and similar problems will be addressed under other legal rules. However, given the fiscal impact of this law on local self-government units, we are confident that this law will also contribute significantly and have a beneficial effect on the given problem. Therefore, the law primarily regulates the distribution of income from income tax, the fiscal balance of units of local and regional self-government, and the financing of decentralised functions. The distribution of income tax under the applicable provisions of the Law on the financing of individuals of local and regional self-government is set out in 4 different categories. Basic distribution, and another 3 and depending on the area in which the city, i.e. the municipality, is therefore an assisted area, the mountainous mountainous area and islands. The basic distribution of income tax applies to only 207 units of local self-government, of a total of 556. In other 349 units of local self-government, specific rules of income tax distribution apply. In addition to those counties in the 299 units of local self-government, only 12% of the income tax is owned, while no county has a share in income tax of 16.5% from its entire area, except the city of Zagreb. The provisions of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government are prescribed 2 sources of income, to cover expenditure for decentralised functions, and this revenue derived from an additional share of income tax, at a rate of 6% and the position of compensation aid for decentralised functions means assets at a rate of 16%. In addition to income tax, one of the most significant sources of funding for a large number of units of local and regional self-government are aids that are being implemented on the basis of the criteria set out in the law on the implementation of the state budget for each financial year. A large number of aid types and criteria and aid allocations, which often change to a sufficient extent, do not address problems related to the mitigation of fiscal inequality of local and regional self-government units. Based on the provisions of the law on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, the local and regional self-government units have benefited and users have been assisted with the following bases. Therefore, a return on income tax, income from income tax from its area, direct aid from the state budget. These are only those units which were aid beneficiaries from the state budget in 2014 and additional aid for all 264 units of local self-government and 12 units of regional self-government, which have the status of a assisted area. And help in the transitional period, only for those units of local self-government, which do not have the status of an assisted area. Therefore, from all above, it is visible and it is evident that the existing system of distribution of income tax revenue to income tax, which system of financing... a function, and a state aid system, very complex, non-transparent and often unpredictable for local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, the existing law does not provide and responds to the challenges of the very unequal fiscal capacity of local self-government units. Therefore, the objectives which are intended to be achieved by the coming of this law, firstly in a simpler, more understandable and fairer way to define the system of distribution of income from income taxes, the system of fiscal balancing of units of local and regional self-government, and the system of financing... The function, on the other hand, will define the system, which will provide all units of local and regional self-government with the potential to provide a comparable level of public services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] While under other legislation, regional development and demographic recovery will be encouraged. The key changes adopted by this law are the first income from income tax to be left entirely to units of local and regional self-government. Second, income from income tax, based on savings interest, also becomes income from local and regional self-government units, and in 2016. The revenue on this basis amounted to 369 million kn. The third is 16% of the income tax, which has so far been used to finance decentralised functions through aid funds of 1.6 billion kuna in 2016. It is left to units of local and regional self-government, while decentralised functions will be financed from the state budget. 4. aid is abolished under the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, which amounted to 695 million kuna in 2017. And a new model of fiscal balancing is being set up, which is financed from 17% of the share in income tax revenues. This law therefore intends to establish a simpler, more understandable and fairer system for the distribution of income from income tax, the fiscal balancing model and the funding system for decentralised functions. The distribution of income from income tax has been simplified compared to the existing, since the bill proposes a single allocation for all local self-government units and by the following share. So the share of the municipality, i.e. the city is 60%, the share of the county is 17%, the share of decentralised functions 6% and the share of fiscal balance 17%. This law provides that total income from income tax is therefore to be allocated 17% for fiscal countervailing funds. The objective of fiscal balancing is to equate the fiscal capacity of units of local and regional self-government, with a view to enabling, providing, comparable levels of public services. For the purpose of achieving this, the existing system of aid based on the development index, the regulatory law on the implementation of the national budget for the translated Member State, ceases to apply and pay off from the position of the Ministry of Finance. The provisions of this law prescribe a new model of fiscal balancing, in order to mitigate inequalities between fiscal capacities, local and regional self-government units. The funds of fiscal balancing that will be allocated on a daily basis to the municipalities, the city and the county, depend on the total available funds, collected from the share of fiscal balancing, namely these 17% and on the share of the necessary funds of the municipality, the city and the county in the total necessary fiscal balances in full for all units of local and regional self-government. The fiscal balancing model is based on the calculation of the fiscal capacity and units, taking into account income from income tax achieved in the unit area and income achieved by the highest prescribed rate of deduction per unit resident. These revenues shall be monitored for a period of 5 years for which the data are known. For the purposes of fiscal balancing in 2018, for example, data for the period 2012/2016 will be used. Depending on the deviation of the fiscal capacity of the units from the determined reference value and the funds raised from 17% of the fiscal balancing shares will also depend on the amount of fiscal balancing funds belonging to the individual unit. In view of the specificities of a particular self-government, the law lays down 3 benchmarks. The reference value for the municipalities for 2018 was established at 1925 kuna, the reference value for cities for 2018 with an amount of 2583 kuna and for counties it amounts to 3019 kuna. However, part of the units of local self-government will generate less income in 2018 than in previous years, and most of all those units that achieved a higher share of income tax, namely those 88% or 70.5% of the basic, so 60% and or from the funds of the financial ministry and have tax revenues per capita higher than the average, i.e. the reference value for cities, i.e. municipalities, which means that they have strong fiscal capacity. With regard to the provision of conditions for the real budget planning of units and the implementation of previously agreed commitments in transitional and final provisions, compensatory measures are provided for those units for the next 5 years, which will be planned in the state budget at the division of the Ministry of Finance. During the debate on the proposal for a law in first reading, a significant part of the time was discussed on several issues such as why, as a criterion for measuring fiscal capacity, income tax rather than something other than something like that was taken as a criterion for measuring fiscal capacity. the total precapital income, the question of different size of reference in municipalities and cities, the issue of the island, why the calculation of reference sizes is taken on a five-year average rather than a three-year average, etc. He would therefore briefly refer to some of these questions. So why the income tax. As regards income from income tax as criteria for measuring fiscal capacity and fiscal alignment, I would like to say that we have been dealing with this issue for a long time during the drafting of the law. In fact, the highest level of gross domestic product is the most frequently used value to demonstrate the degree of economic development of the country as well as the specific area. Given that the value of GDP at the level of cities and municipalities is not known because it is not calculated, this variable is estimated to be very well corresponding, hence income variables from income taxes, correspondence with GDP developments, and that in a good way it promotes the economic development of an area. GDP movements curves at the county level are very well corresponded to the movement of income tax revenues. In addition, it should be pointed out that income from income tax is, unlike other sources of income, the only income which is a constant and comparable item, i.e. the only income that units of local and regional self-government achieve on equal terms. From the above, it is clear why only income from income tax was used to calculate the capacity of the tax revenues achieved and the reference values. Why are different sizes of reference value for cities and municipalities? The allocation of income from income tax and the value reference established by this law optimally reduces the imbalances of the fiscal capacity of units of local and regional self-government, which enables evenly ensuring income for the performance of their laws of regulated transactions. The implementation of this law expects a more uniform fiscal capacity of units of local and regional self-government, or is estimated to be 0.35, 0.55, and 0.36, respectively, less than the current values of the same coefficients for cities, municipalities and counties. It is important here to point out that out of the total of around a billion and 950 million kunas estimated to be achieved in 2018 from the share of fiscal balancing, some 900 million kunas and about 46% of the total available funding for fiscal balancing will be allocated in 2018. The comparisons for total tax revenue and income cuts of all municipalities in 2016 amounted to around a billion and 100 million kuna. The cities, in 2018, will be allocated around 910 million kuna, or somewhere around 46.5% of the total available funding for fiscal balancing and for comparison of total income from taxes and income cuts for all cities in 2016 amounted to around 3.7 billion kuna. Furthermore, one of the reasons that cities and municipalities do not have the same benchmarks is the fact that municipalities have far fewer budget users compared to cities. In fact, municipalities have an average of 0.55 budget users, while cities have an average of 6.13 budget users. So much greater needs certainly for cities compared to the municipalities in this part. Furthermore, we had the question of the island, what we would like to point out is that out of 50 units of local self-government on islands, according to the Ministry of Finance estimates, 20 of them will make more revenue based on this law and be in a better fiscal position than they are now, so they do not all lose despite the reduction of the general rate for them, i.e. the elimination of 16%, so a part of them, or a significant part of them, will achieve even greater revenues. In order to achieve, on the one hand, the fundamental objectives of this law and, on the other hand, to ensure the execution of contractual commitments and to further invest in capital projects of municipalities and cities on the islands are therefore provided for compensatory measures for the following 5 financial years. And finally the difference from the first reading. An important proposal by parliamentarians has been made and related to the extension of the time limit for the provision of compensation measures proposed in the draft law for those municipalities and cities which will also generate less revenue under this law. The final draft of the law extended from those in the original proposal to a total of 5 years. Therefore, the final proposal for a law stipulates that those units will, therefore, be paid 100% from the state budget of 2018, 2019 and 2020, in 2021. 60% and 2022. 30% of the difference or lack of income. The compensation measures are therefore proposed for a period of 5 years, i.e. until 2020. And we consider this appropriate and sufficient as some time to adapt them. Other changes in relation to first reading are of nomotechnical nature and would not individually explain them. So, in total and finally, we can say and we can talk about a step towards fiscal decentralisation, strengthening the fiscal capacity of municipalities, cities and counties, a more balanced and fair distribution of income from income tax among units of local and regional self-government, increasing their own income, which will facilitate their position in the area of budget planning, borrowing, etc. Total amount of State budgets that are denied and for the benefit of municipalities, cities and counties for 2018 estimated somewhere at around a billion and 400 million kuna. And the next thing I know, I dare say that this is really a good bill, certainly a very good intention of the promoter, and we call for the adoption and vote of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62871	Thank you very much. We've got a lot of replicas. First Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62872	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, first of all, you're right and it's good, it has also shown tax reform that reducing the rate of income tax has increased actually tax revenues and in any case it is to welcome that you leave it to local self-government units. It is particularly important that those 60%, now to be allocated to their budgets, are source revenues. It will make their business much easier. But what we always talk about when we talk about averages, benchmarks, is always kind of sticking in the eyes and we saw in the past this law, before it was this, now and this law and many laws that are being passed here, is really they respecting a real picture on the ground. You see, we have the reference value of tax revenue, we subtract from it the capacity of the revenue achieved. And then you know what's key? Then we multiply by the population. And what happens to us in the field? Our places and our municipalities are dying, people are leaving. And now it will be, of course, the municipalities, I told you the last time and I told you the same thing in my community, even though you reassured me. I thank you for that explanation. I was even afraid that I wouldn't get what we've been getting so far before my colleague Greek made that calculation, that we'd even run out of 2 million incomes. You've convinced me, I trust you on the word that you'll stay income but it's evident that those municipalities that have fewer inhabitants will get much less. In the future, we need to think about how to make your inequality even more effective. Why don't they take some other parameters to get that formula up there, because they, too, say this and where there are 100 residents or 1000 and they need a kindergarten, they also need a plumbing, they need a sewer, they need all the conditions. And there are fewer in those areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62873	Thank you very much. You want to answer one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62874	Thank you very much. So, we have to set up some sort of ridiculous system, some system that's the result of some measurable criteria, equal to everything. Of course, there will always be some individual examples, some examples that bounce and perhaps at a given time may not reflect or perhaps even the intensity of ourselves. This may also apply to the size of the reference, whether it is income tax, whether it is total income, or whether it is something else. We will always have examples of where something might happen that will deviate from the intensity itself. However, in order to become some kind of, simple, understandable, acceptable system, we need to define these criteria and define some sizes, or to which we will be treated. It's definitely income per capita, something per capita's head so that it could count both later and later on both sides. So if we're talking, if I understand you correctly, given that the population is decreasing and we share income by the previous population, so that income is de facto per capita less than it is now. I mean, it's going to happen on both sides. On the other hand, we are helping to count on this greater population than it is in nature. We will refer to the official figures of the total population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62875	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here, I can say of course that this law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government is definitely one step ahead, this all you have stated is true, so it greatly simplifies the system and, of course, what is crucial is that the units of local self-government are left with about a billion and 400 million kuna. So if you're looking at the budget, maybe it could, maybe it could've been more. But I've got a couple of actual skeptics about this bill and speaking to fellow mayors and mayors first thing to do, so... These 17% of the Fund for Fiscal Alignment, whether it will be enough for everything we have calculated in accordance with, of course, us according to those instructions that you gave us and some of us have contacted associations, municipalities, associations and cities and have given us certain calculations, whether these funds in the Fiscal Balance Fund will actually be enough to do so, to achieve what is planned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope so, but that's where one big questionnaire is put, I repeat, talking to fellow mayors and mayors. Another thing I don't think is a good thing that we've transferred the entire funding of local self-government to income tax. And since 2015 you have a continuous reduction in income tax revenue, here for last year, I think we had about 8.3% less income from income tax, so in 2017 compared to 2016. It was also necessary to consider what was discussed to secure a certain portion of the profit tax, a certain part of the VAT that we did not cut. So you leave one tax to local units so you leave one tax to local units where incomes are unfortunately reduced year after year because of policies that go according to it. Of course, that non-taxable part is being raised, to reduce tax rates, and we also have a recommendation from the European Commission to actually cut less, to tax less labour and more to use some other taxes, primarily property tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62876	Thank you. Would you like to answer? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62877	Thank you very much. So, listen, the fact is that the latest amendments to the Income Tax Act left income free and, of course, reduced the total income, the total aggregate income from this tax. However, in the budget this year, we have provided funds in the positions of the Ministry of Finance that have compensated the municipalities and cities of the losses that have been achieved. And all of this will be accepted in both this law and the calculations and the model that it is set up, so ultimately, as I said somewhere at about a billion and 400 billion and 500, we'll see what the total income of income tax is going to be. It depends, of course, on the estimates of total income. However, I would not agree that in the future incomes will be reduced under this tax. However, we expect net wage growth, we expect employment growth, so we expect, of course, normal growth of this income at some expected real rate, which due to the growth of net wages, which is due to the growth of the i.e. gross salary, which is due to the increase in the number of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62878	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62879	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It's more of a technical question. I didn't want to open it yesterday. I know this isn't about the Ministry of Finance. You know that this law should have been passed before the budget and that it was actually an integral part of the budget and even in your speech it remained that part, as if it were planned in the budget, and yesterday it was actually the budget. And today we are discussing a law that should have been an integral part of the budget. So that's not a criticism to you. The Ministry of Finance and colleagues know that this part was actually supposed to be a package before the budget and that this is exactly the part that you were transferring to local units is actually the item in the budget that you see there and that's there and it's being transferred. And now later because of that extraordinary situation that happened, so now it's being asked a technical question. We'll probably vote this bill next week, so it's also technical that this will all be procedural in order to meet certain procedures. But I'm saying, that's no longer a question for you, because you know that this part is there, but more at the Parliament's service when laws like this are passed, that the warnings were still extraordinary situations, but that this one and I think this morning's law are an integral part of the budget and that they should be brought together with the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62880	Thank you, too. Here's your answer, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62881	Thank you very much. Well, of course we'd be happier and happier and that if you wanted more technically correct either if we passed the law before the budget itself, but I don't think this is the only law whose effects have been applied in the future budget, and it hasn't been adopted yet. I would perhaps more apostrophe here regretted the team because of the units of local self-government because of their direct and their incomes, and here it was adopted in its final proposal only now, so let me say more I would say because of them, less due to the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62882	Thank you, too. Mr. Greek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So I'm still left with one question. You were talking about a billion and 400 million kuna more for local self-government units. I'm just asking you to explain to people, so so far local self-government units have some, so those in assisted areas, islands and mountain-mounted mountains had an increased share in income tax. So something very similar to this, but not like this. On the other hand, one significant number of these units had direct support from the budget under the Regional Policy Act and these 670 and some million kuna funds have now been abolished. So we need to make it clear to people. These funds are now gone and all of this is poured into one large vessel from which local self-government units are then shared by a key. So is that something that you've turned down from these billions and 400 or is that related to something that's plus. So, when it moves away, it's a billion and 400 net effect for local self-government units. That's what I'm very interested in. I'm interested in the reason that the Regional Development Act was in the government today, and I haven't read it well yet and I've seen it and you can also help me and the public and tell me whether this law will bring certain effects and whether it plans to be adopted by the end of this year for units of local self-government. Why does it matter? Because the effect of this law will either be seen in 2018 or will not be seen. If not seen, then these 700 million kunas are permanently lost as measures of regional policy. Here's that interspace, please, and let me get this straight and see what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62884	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62885	Thank you very much. So, in our first reading, we discussed here and now in the opening speech. Of course, certain cities and municipalities will lose a certain original share of income tax, i.e. that the rate for some from 88 for some from 70.5 is reduced to 60%. That's a fact. However, we have a balancing fund that goes 17% and by this fiscal balancing model many of these municipalities will have ultimately more income than they have so far. And the system is much simpler, much fairer, much more predictable for them and they get a billion and 400 million kuna. Of course, that includes these current 690 and 670 million kuna aids, but there is no need anymore, the net effect is minimal in our estimates a billion and 400 maybe even more, and so it's simply out of some income tax revenue at some 2 billion and 170 levels, and on the other hand we can look at the decentralised functions of a billion 647 in this year's budget, which is now falling on the burden of the state. Incomes of interest 360 million kuna and those 1.5% of the tax that went to the EU fund to help. It's somewhere on the level of 2 billion and 170 million kuna, when we subtract this amount that you mentioned we come net to about a billion 400 and something. So the net effect is certainly that. Once again for most cities and municipalities and even for these assisted areas, no matter what the rate of lower incomes will be greater. And we said this is a measure of fiscal balance, not of regional development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62886	Thank you very much. Mr. Varda, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62887	Your Honor, Secretary of State. If I understood correctly, and based on these facts I have before me, the tax revenues of the city of Zagreb in the period from 2015. – In 2017, they are lower by a billion kuna of 191 million, resulting in a reduction in the tax burden of labour. But are the compensatory measures that you are predicting, you suggest for these five years, enough that part of the funds for balancing is possible and how many cities that have a similar or similar situation will be able to count on a return?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62888	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62889	We won't and this law won't at least as far as this big city case is concerned, I don't know this detail about the City of Zagreb, compensate for maybe some former losses from 2013, 2014, I don't know. However, what is at the City of Zagreb is the fact that it will gain a higher share of income income from income tax, now it is 16.5%, according to the new one 17%, therefore 0.5% as well as the county. So, the City of Zagreb will get more revenue than it has today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62890	Thank you very much. Mr. Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. In your opening statement that, in the past or in the past, the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government has been amended several times, and it is clear to me that with this law that you are now proposing to achieve a more balanced fiscal division in the Republic of Croatia. However, this proposal said that you also based everything on basic income from income tax on income. And you said it was the only income that was safe to count on. However, you have examples where you just took that element as a basis that a large number or a certain number of units of local self-government have equally stable incomes that are known for example. concession, rent space, etc. which are also stable. And what's going to happen? It will happen that in these municipalities income from income tax will be minimally entitled to receive compensation meaning measures from the settlement fund, and has per capita a much higher budget than someone else who has a higher income than income tax. The next thing I wanted to tell you is that you mentioned that through, you rewarded the cities because they have a higher number of budget, non-profit users than the municipalities. And in this part, you didn't take in the processing and county that just these extracurricular users who don't finance the municipalities have a burden on the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62892	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62893	Thank you very much. So I'm saying in the introduction, and I'm going to say it again, there's no ideal system that's going to hit every single municipality or city perfectly. It is clear that by measuring the average income from income tax of some municipalities that have concession income, from some other fees or mine fees, or I don't know, they will be in a situation that, despite the fact that per capital's income is significantly higher than the average and on this basis they get. But this is something that is most stable, most essential, lasting, regular, etc. and we need to set up a system that is robust that best covers the totality of all units of local self-government. As far as the county is concerned, the truth is that they have as many users as they do in the municipalities. However, most of them are users, users of decentralised funds or other types of income compared to what is the case in cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62894	Thank you. Mrs. Juricev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Secretary of State, you mentioned in your discussion the island's local self-government unit that some will receive slightly less funds, but of course by compensatory measures within 5 years, that loss will not be such a loss. I would say that this government is spending even more money on islands in 2018, and we could see that yesterday in the state budget. In fact, within the Ministry of Regional Development, the Department of the Islands has significantly higher funds for these areas. So the Regional Development Fund provides for 100% more funding, as it says it will focus on improving living conditions on islands. Further sustainable development of the Adriatic islands also registered an increase of 12%. Water supply of the island 7% more resources. Encourage the island economy 11%. Making study project and programming documentation development of the island 18% higher. Fund for the financing of capital projects of interest for the development of the island 25%. I just wanted to fill it out. So we can't look at this law alone, but we have to look at it together with a budget that provides for considerably more resources for the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62896	Thank you. Here's your answer. No, I don't. Okay. Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62897	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, here is, above all, the commendation that you've worked out that first reading that I've read it well, and you've really explained everything even though you haven't appreciated anything, but you've explained why you haven't appreciated some of our remarks. I'm going to talk on behalf of the club about it and keep insisting that I think that some things should be appreciated in order to be more just. I didn't fully understand it from this presentation of yours, so I'd like to ask you for an explanation. So you said we're going to be going into compensatory measures for five years. The first three years will be 100%, right? And then it's going to be 4 and 5 years 50, 60 and something, here. Thank you very much for that explanation. I mean, that's good. I know that in our first reading, we had that we'd only have another year, and then 50%. That was so a little bit of a concern. Here, thank you for that and that's a very good thing. Next thing I know, we're talking about islands here and there. The islands will, in my opinion, receive less funds than ever before. Whether it's good or not, I don't think it's good. I would like the islands, especially those who are me, to call it passive islands that may not have so much income from tourism that they have higher incomes, that people simply don't move out of the island and we all have to fight to keep those islands really populated, and we know that this depends primarily on financial resources. I would perhaps mention the islands we have on land, and we have very many islands on land under the island's quotes because here is only one information that among the first 20 municipalities, and 20 cities per income per population of almost all 20 and municipalities and cities are cities and municipalities by the sea or at sea. Along the sea or at sea, there is almost no city or municipality among the first 20 per capita on land, not to mention the incomes of Slavonia. Now, that's what we should think maybe more, more evenly of Croatia's development to help them, and that here we have a literally even development of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62898	Thank you very much. Okay, thank you. And in the end, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, given the income potential of individual units of local self-government, this is probably the only model that is the basis for some higher income towards local self-government units, because let's not forget 10 years ago when local self-government units also belonged to a profit tax of 80% of the total profit tax practically went to the City of Zagreb from what belongs to local self-government units and the only fair to say that income distribution is income tax. However, what is crucial in terms of problems both in the pension system and in the health system is how much the state budget from those basic revenues will be able to reroute funds towards those units of local self-government that are poorer. That's the key question for me because when you look at it and you'll see after 2, 3 months when this law is in place that the larger and richer units of local self-government will stay here somewhere. Let him get some, let him lose some. And what's crucial is that most units of local self-government that, unfortunately, will soon have no higher income potential, and that may be the greatest value of this law, and that should be looked at in such a way. Because when you take all the benefits that income tax has been made from an increase in the non-taxable part, the reduction in this rate from 15 to 12, and the elimination of one rate of income tax, you've been doing all that over the past 10 years, the total potential of income tax remained around 14.15 billion kuna, so with everything that's been reduced. And so this is a good basis for going to decentralisation of some income, but we also want to talk about decentralisation of certain obligations of local self-government units by bringing them closer to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62900	Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Mr. Robert Podolnjak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government as another important law covering the problem of local income. The second is the Law on Local Taxes. And in the explanation of the secretary of state, we heard about the reasons for the adoption of this law and about a simpler and more systematic review of the common taxes and the general financing of local self-government. The process of budgeting local self-government is under way and, therefore, at this time, we do not have all relevant indicators of local self-government revenues for the next financial year, as we know at this time about the state budget that is voted and in which we know that the state revenues are 129 billion kuna and the expenditures are 133 billion kuna. We know that Croatia is an extremely centralised state in the fiscal revenues of the state compared to local self-government. That's what the figures always showed. At this point, I do not have all the figures for the budgets of local self-government that are currently being passed, but for example, the City of Zagreb that started the budget process predicts revenues in the coming year of around 9 billion kuna. And we knew that everyone else's incomes from municipalities, cities and counties were here somewhere along the way as the City of Zagreb. This is one of those bad paradoxes of the division of income in the Republic of Croatia, but if this is the case then the entire local self-government of all municipalities, cities and counties probably no more than 18 billion kunas of revenue compared to the state's 133 billion expenditures and 129 billion revenues. It is a key and fundamental problem that fiscal centralised and no law that we are passing, nor this one, especially this one in this sense, will change things significantly. Because this law speaks of some important incomes of the local self-government unit, and we who were in local self-government regardless of the duty we know that income tax has always been the most important income of local self-government. In harsh terms, I may be wrong 5 or 10% depending on which local self-government we're talking about, but from the half of the income of the local self-government unit, it was usually about income tax. I am looking at the current budget of the City of Zagreb and I see, in fact, that out of these 9 billion kunas that are forecasting next year, half of them relate to income tax with the tax, which is the biggest truth in Zagreb. I am talking on purpose about Zagreb because I have now seen that the budget in their first reading in the Assembly in many other areas is not yet available to talk about them. And Zagreb is a mirror of the largest city and the largest income. However, if we were to say that the positive fact that income tax becomes income throughout local self-government is only half the truth. And some of my colleagues here have already indicated in replicas some basic income tax problems that we actually see every time the legislator intervenes in the Income Tax Act. And the legislator at this point is us in this capacity as parliamentary representatives, but often on the other side we are the mayors, mayors or members of the representative bodies. We are aware every time a legislator touches the Income Tax Act that this usually means reducing the income of local self-government. If I remember all my years as a member of the representative body, or when I was a member of the headship, we generally expected to adopt the Law on Income Taxes, as it was, in general, an increase in personal income for citizens who receive income and, of course, it is a good fact from the point of view of all who receive pay or some other income, because it increases the personal income of any citizen who receives any kind of income. But for local self-government units and a large number of those who have to rely heavily on that tax, that is, of course, a situation that requires reflection on how to compensate for this revenue eventually in the next budget. The last time we intervened in the Income Tax Act, we didn't just do it to increase personal deductions, coefficients, etc. but we also changed our tax rates. And it is quite certain that the change in these tax rates also conditioned lower income from income tax for local self-government units. Here I must look again at the example of the City of Zagreb but I am sure it will apply to many other municipalities, cities and counties. In the City of Zagreb, it has already been calculated that income from income tax and cut in the following year will be 364 million kunas lower or 7.4% compared to earlier income from that tax. I just believe that many other cities will have less income by the same logic because I do not see a special difference in collecting taxes in the City of Zagreb compared to any other city larger or smaller. The logic is that due to the different personal deductions from due to the different tax rates prescribed by law, this tax revenue is lower. And the fact is that the legislator, in this case we will often intervene in this law and increase personal deduction, it is actually constantly happening and that it will eventually change tax rates. But at the same time, it means the exceptional exposure of the local self-government of every city, municipality and county, because it will vehemently reflect on their income especially when you at some point do not know how to close the loss bigger or smaller, but it is never so small. Of course, it will be less millions than it is in the city of Zagreb, but yet on the income of 9 billion it must calculate that there are less than 400 million kunas. Someone on 90 million kuna revenue will have less than 4 million kuna, but yet this means that they will reduce capital projects and investments, capital support, donations or something else that was possible until then. This is why we generally believe that the model is not good, that local self-government is allowed to depend on income tax to this extent, while at the same time the fact that we are reducing it by law as the income of local self-government and that it is constantly happening. I would like to point out that when I talk about tax reform, especially at local level, that we did not actually realise the key aspect of the local tax reform that was part of the Ministry of Finance and Government's programme, which is real estate tax. In fact, we know today that no quality, good and enforceable real estate tax model has been designed, and local self-governments, as planned by the Government and the Ministry of Finance, were to rely far more heavily on that tax as a whole on their local incomes. Unfortunately, that's missing. We today and the question of when we will have some enforceable property tax model that could even establish a consensus in this Croatian Parliament and with local self-government and especially with regard to citizens. And until then, because it seems to me that this tax has certainly been delayed for a little longer, I would say even for the term of office of this Croatian Parliament that we are going back to the old model in which we have concentrated on income tax, in which we have a communal fee, in which we have lost some of the revenues that local self-government had. And he's right, colleague Schuker, when he said he had to withdraw his income tax as an income from local self-government, because he ended up centralizing in the city of Zagreb because of the headquarters of all relevant institutions, banks, large companies. And that's a fact. I remember as a local councilman when the profit tax came from the local bank that it was a very high income until one day those banks disappeared and until everything was centralized in Zagreb. But if that's the case, why don't we think about it in a way that part of that profit tax that is now the income of the state budget isn't given to the local self-government, so it gathers at the state level because of the logic of things that I absolutely consider to be right. But that part of that tax that once had units of local self-government was therefore part of their income to return to certain criteria that the legislator should develop. So this is basically a suggestion that we at the Most would like to see the distribution of these revenues. Of course, at this point and in this law, we cannot intervene in some other segments of decentralisation of strengthening local self-government, greater efficiency, reduction of local self-government, reduction of costs in these local self-governments to those costs that are not necessary. We talked about this today as part of the Law on Local Self-Government that even minimum directorial, administrative or policy costs in local self-government cannot be reduced. But we are not inclined to allow local self-government to base our income and our budget largely on income tax over which there is no exclusive control when it comes to personal deduction and tax rates. If local self-government could do that, of course, would be a different story. What she can do is only prescribe a cut to a certain level, and even the right doesn't have all units, so they don't have counties and they never did. In this regard, we therefore expect the legislator, that the Government and the Ministry of Finance, propose a different law that will take into account these facts because the figures show that income tax cannot be the basis for the development and stable income of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62902	Thank you. Mr. Greek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Podolnjak, and a little while ago, you mentioned the question of decentralisation. The question arises whether these billions and 400 million kunas more for local self-government units is decentralisation. Yeah, it's fiscal, but it's not functional. So in this move, we don't actually see anything that would suggest that units of local self-government other than money have received certain obligations that go directly to citizens. What's the problem? The problem is that these revenues, the additional incomes of the local self-government unit are not intended, which means that they can be spent, you said a little while ago at the director's expense, so pay and everything that we wouldn't want. And why wouldn't they want to? In our mandate, we have very precisely analysed the state of local self-government, so we have found that many of them are currently spending much more than the law of the prescribed and allowed 20% of the original income on the salaries of their employees. The goal of the unit of local self-government is to improve the quality of life of citizens, so the objective question arises what are citizens getting out of this whole story? And now we come to the islands. So the islands have participated from 16% in income tax exclusively for the realisation of capital projects. Now, for example, it's going to be. These 20 out of 50 units of local self-government get some money, but they don't say anything about what they need to go to. Is it on capital projects and development or directorial costs? And there's also a big problem with this whole story. I know our mayors, including here and my colleagues from the SDP, are very pleased with this story. But if they're citizens and if the citizens will be satisfied, we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62904	Thank you. The answer to the line, Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62905	I agree with you that all of them, all of those donations that the state gives should be intended. It therefore clearly defines what purpose the funds will be spent on because it is one of the guarantees that these funds will be spent on certain capital investments, not on non-intentional or administrative costs. However, the problem is that you started with the first decentralisation in 2001 that we have a large number of units of local self-government that simply cannot take over decentralised functions, I simply cannot. And then we artificially converted the counties as part of the municipalities because they have to solve the problem of decentralised elementary school functions because they can't do that to the municipalities. Only a small number of larger, more developed cities do so, and in other primary schools the county is concerned. That doesn't make sense, and it shouldn't be the logic of the system. We actually stopped reform at one point when it turns out we have too many small units that can't function functionally. You know how there is one rule out there in countries that have implemented a real functional reform, and when I was in Denmark, they told me – a simple rule, a municipality that cannot care about elementary school cannot be a municipality. Point. It just can't be. If he can't take care of elementary school, then what's the basis for each municipality having one elementary school that he cares about closest to that community and if he can't care about it then he can't really be a community and that's true. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62906	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62907	Your Honor, Vice President. Mr. Podolnjak you have criticised in this part of the law where income tax is actually left out, but it is still insufficient. However, 6% of decentralised functions do not cover all needs for decentralised functions. So all the difference every unit of local or regional is actually compensated from other revenues of the state budget, which is about 1.6 billion kuna. So far, that part has been covered from income tax. So we can't say that in this way the state budget disowns one part of the income in favour of units of local and regional self-government, because it's more than obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62908	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62909	Yes, thank you for your replica. But if you have also seen the report of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, they have reacted among other things and to this in their opinion because they have stated that this may refer to fiscally weaker units of local self-government to compensate for missing income. But big cities, more developed local self-government will still be at a loss. So no one's gonna make it up to them. So I guess those with larger resources, more developed cities, the cities of the county headquarters will be at a loss. Now, as far as he's going to be, I don't know, but yet someone will eventually be compensated, but someone else I would say these cities that are the engines of development that are actually the most front-end where you actually have the most possibilities of realising large projects, where you have entrepreneurial zones, where you have development agencies, where you have companies, where you have significant opportunities to help entrepreneurship there will actually miss that income. That's what I'm afraid of because these cities were the biggest engine of development in the world when we watch local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62910	Thank you very much. Mrs. Christmas, at least in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62911	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an assistant, respected colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning of the HNS Club, I'll say we'll support this law. We will support him because we believe that he is a really good law that goes towards decentralisation and finance, but in some ways more opportunities will be given to realise projects. We in HNS have been talking for years about the need of a law like this whether in this particular form perhaps something small changed, but we think it's extremely good. I will be agreed with by most of our mayors and mayors because they will really get more funding to meet those municipal needs that meet the needs of their citizens and therefore the units of local self-government and exist to meet the needs of their citizens. We have a lot of employees in our northern Croatia, but the salaries of our workers or employees are extremely small and have felt every tax discharge or reduction of the non-taxable part. So really our mayors and mayors were in a situation where they could no longer plan their budgets or meet those basic needs, let alone think about further development and some capital investments. If there is no ideal situation, we are all aware of it, that they will always be more satisfied, less satisfied, and also dissatisfied. However, I am sure that it is very good that our comments are also respected in relation to the first reading, i.e. that there is an important observation by parliamentary representatives regarding compensation measures, which is to increase from two years to five years, and that we have, in the final proposal of the law, that the amount will be applied from 2019 to 2020, so 100% of the amounts will be paid in relation to this part, 2021. 60% and 2022. 30% of the amount of aid compared to 2018. Here I won't be long since we've really already said a lot about this law and again mentioning, there are more satisfied, less satisfied, but we at the club think it's a very good law that we're going to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62912	Thank you, too. Mrs Grozdana Peric is in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62913	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, and here are rare colleagues here in the assembly. What Mrs. Bozica Makar said, we really said a lot, and we had plenty of time or time for proposals in relation to this law that was very often in procedures and that changed, and all to stimulate growth, development, to get out of the crisis and everything else. Here's the HDZ club, of course, that supports these changes, and I'll just focus on three points. It is therefore important that this change in income tax is left to local self-government units and the regional majority. Normally there will be a difference in some, however, this simplifies the whole application of the law, because there are only four rates unlike the previous ones where they were in different variations compared to decentralised to helping leveling municipalities or cities that are on islands and the like. So this is an important difference in step that the entire system is simplified and fiscally balanced, and the goal is what the promoter said in the introduction, to enable them to now weaken fiscally weaker municipalities and cities in this way to gain and achieve something more and to give them one capacity that will be able to boost their development. We've had a situation so far that here, as mentioned here, the triggers, the engines are big cities, etc. That was good, but not good now when we look at the demographic structure and the development of small municipalities and smaller towns because the population was leaving, employed in large, did not even stay with the residence or residence in its city. And what was going on? We've had an outflow, we haven't had a concentrated development, we've had a population spilling into large cities that are then pre-remended to small ones. If we want to develop all areas and these mountain-mounted areas and others, and not only those with great potentials, this approach is far better because it will allow exactly the number of inhabitants and the averages that have been achieved by the head of the population to be increased by 50%, to allow these and such municipalities and cities to get something more and to develop and ultimately to make the level of public services in those areas much better and better than it has been so far. Thus, the measure itself is not in this way a measure that will boost some capital effects or capital investments but will thus foster development itself and take into account how development itself will take place according to the needs of these inhabitants in municipalities and cities. I said before, in a replica that in this way, the means of difference for decentralised functions are being shifted to the state itself. So whether it's going to be a difference as it has been in 16% so far, a billion and 600, or if it's going to be less, given that it's different in income tax schedule, it doesn't matter at all. But it is important that both such units, local, regional self-government, make you more resourceful, for decentralisationd from other sources that the state is smelling. So whether it's from profit tax or value added tax doesn't matter at all. But it's important for them to be fully realized. Also mentioned is income tax, based on savings interest, which amounted to over 368 million kuna in 2016. Therefore, it is also left entirely to the units of local self-government, which is also a significant amount and thus the state is renouncing that part. Therefore, it is fully in the function of local administrations and self-government. Another thing that I would also like to mention is that it is important, and here it is already said in part, that the compensation period is extending, from 2 to 5 years, which will also help units to plan and schedule in these relations and in this period how they will stimulate their citizens to stay and, in this way, actually make them possible, contribute as much to their environment. I know that certain cities, which are administratively fiscally powerful, will achieve a lower rate of growth and income from income tax, but given that I expect everything together to have a positive effect. I think that it is also positive and that these great cities too, must think about how they will further develop their capacities, i.e. how they will promote employment and stay in their territory and in their cities. So here are the directions in which, I think, it's important to mention where this amendment of law went. What I would like to point out once again, and not to owe too much, is what the secretary of state mentioned, and should in any case point out, that from the share for fiscal balancing, of 17% of which is made available to billions and 950 million kuna, that the municipalities will be allocated 899 million kuna in 2018, which is 46.1% more available for fiscal balancing. And for cities other than Zagreb, 908 million kuna or 46.5%. Here, this proves once again that this model actually enables smaller municipalities to reach a certain level of development, given that in 2016, income tax, only billions and 118 million kuna were achieved in their territory. So we have to be really objective and realistic about the cities that have achieved in the same year 3.7 billion kuna. So we see that in this way they actually get into smaller municipalities larger funds and enable more even development. So the state, this way, with 2.1 billion kuna, will finance from other sources of the state budget to help balance, and I'm saying, all of these procedures, actually enables a much more even development of all of our municipalities and cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62914	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Demetlik decided on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62915	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, you have repeated one word that really stabs in the ear, and the Secretary of State said the same thing. You say the state gives up. I might have fixed you there. You're giving us back what we've accomplished and by filling up a series of units of local self-government, the state budget. And I will remind you that from that point on in 2009, while units of local self-government, invested in industrial zones, freed shareholders from paying for municipal contributions, precisely with the aim of creating new jobs and employment and these successful local self-government units, precisely on the basis of which additional income cuts were made, that with 3 amendments to the law, this income tax was always taken. Now we're reintroducing fiscal balance and you've admitted yourself that those who have invested, created these larger revenues, will now be left without those revenues again. But let's see more because you mentioned incentives for additional employment. What are we doing? Through compensatory measures that I welcome to extend to five years three hundred percent, four, 65 thirty to reward again those who were not ready or did not know or have the capacity to invest in such development projects. And now through that compensatory measure again those who grow income on income, income taxes will be cut off and those who don't work will somehow get those funds again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62916	Thank you very much. The answer to Mrs. Peric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62917	Well, thank you, colleague Demetlika. It is true that those who have developed zones have actually set themselves a prerequisite for growth and development, but neither did those areas that were created, so you must also admit that they are partly aided by state aids. So from some sources of the previous countries, in a direct or indirect way, it helped to develop them. And you can't say that we are exactly, that every city or municipality has done everything by itself. So at that point, whoever had the vision and knew how the state would do it and encouraged and helped him, and that's why I said now the state is giving up in a different way because it could have set it completely different. So it is true that we have made all of this directly or indirectly, but it must be acknowledged that the state was also able to identify and at certain times encourage development where the leader or chief actually recognized that he could achieve certain incomes, i.e. profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62918	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the clubs. Mr. Allen Prelec in front of the HDZ Club, perhaps with one technical innovation, at least for that Parliament, even though it's been there for years. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62919	I'm in front of the SDP. The Honorable Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. [[I know. I said.]] Here I have to say that, here is clear that it is behind me, and I believe that for many citizens and all citizens, this law should be of utmost importance because there is no citizen of Croatia who does not live in any local self-government unit. Well, that's why it's important. I hope this debate goes that way. The first reading we had and we made some remarks. I must thank the Secretary of State and the Ministry who have respected these remarks above all for these compensatory measures that have been extended from three years to five years. That's a good thing. Oh, God, it's been a while. There are some things we have proposed and not respected. I am sorry about that, but today I will try with one presentation, say in fact why we insisted and insist on continuing to respect these remarks that will go towards the improvement of each unit of local self-government, and we know that the sources of funding are key to the functioning of every city, municipality and county in Croatia. In short, they have an impact on the future development of local environments, and it is also linked to the development of the whole country. I think that's important, but here's what I'm going to try to say for those who don't know, and hopefully we're being watched by citizens, and here we have a little more audiences than we are down there in the assembly, to talk about what is actually a unit of local self-government. And let's remove the familiarity of how many units local administrations spend, how much they are consumers, how much they have to pay or for anything else. Well, here we go. So here's the first thing I wanted to say is the ratio of the budget, the total budget, this is the 2016 budget. So we have 428 municipalities, 127 cities in Croatia. Overall, municipalities spend 3.7 billion kuna, counties 3.6 billion kuna, cities 8.7 billion kuna, and the city of Zagreb spends 6.3 billion kuna. So the total budget of all units of local self-government is 22.4 billion kuna. The state budget, so total we have 138 billion kuna. Of these 138 billion kunas, 116 billion kunas are spent by the central state, and 22 billion kunas spend all the county, all the cities, all the municipalities and clearly including the city of Zagreb. Now, what I'd like to show you. It means that out of the total budget of the Republic of Croatia, only 16% is spent by the local community, 16%. We're going to remember this because later on, I'm going to show what it's like in Europe in some more developed countries, in some underdeveloped countries. Why is this 16% too small? The state stands out 22% or 25 billion for salaries of its 116 billion. Local self-government units totaling their salary of 22 billion dollars spent giving 2 billion kunas for wages. I hope all the MPs see this. The budget, meaning all cities and municipalities of 22 billion kuna, is already said by the municipality 3.7 billion, counties 3.6 billion, cities 8 and 7 and the city of Zagreb is spending 6.3 billion. So the city of Zagreb spends more than all the municipalities and districts together, means twice as many municipalities and we have 428. Well, this is going to be a little harder to follow, unfortunately, but I'm going to try to read, I can't show. Here we are talking about how many municipalities, i.e. local self-government and cities there are in developed Europe. Here, because in Austria we have over 5,000 units of local self-government. I say that because many of the speeches do not need municipalities, so many municipalities, should be reduced I don't know from 400 to 100 units of local self-government which is absolutely not true and we see that developed Western European countries have many, many more cities and municipalities than we do. The Czech Republic has 10,000 units, excuse me, it has, yes, 10,000 units of local self-government. France, there are 36,000 units of local self-government, Germany has 12,000 units of local self-government. And now we can look at, say, Greece, which is bigger than Croatia has 325 units of local self-government. So we can conclude that those developed Western European countries have much more units of local self-government, even if we look at the ratio of population and Greece less. Now, let's move on, how far does the state budget go to fund local self-government units? So, in Belgium, it stands out, this is the data from 2009, 2010. 38.5% of total state finances receive local self-government units. In Denmark, it's 66%. 66% of the country's total income goes to local self-government units. And now we'll say how many Greeks there are. Greece stands out 6.5% of total state finances for local self-government units. And now we see the ratio of developed, rich and the ratio of those who probably wouldn't want to be like Greece, 6% of Greece and 66% of Denmark. I'm just saying this as a fact. I believe that if we want to be one rich, developed, state, country with rich people, with infrastructure, with everything we have and what we want as a modern state, I think we must absolutely increase the incomes of the local self-government unit. Let's move on, what I was saying earlier, I told the secretary of state, the first 20 units of local self-government per income, per capita, the first 20 municipalities. Here you can see at the presentation of Janjin, Vir, Baška, Moscenic dear, Sutivan, up to one, all 20 are municipalities that are by the sea, all 20. Next, all 20 and 19 cities per income, per unit, per capita, 19 cities are by the sea. Only one city, it is the city of Zagreb is among those 20 per number, income per capita. I'm not saying this because I would do some antagonism between land and sea, absolutely not, because when I come to the sea I probably won't be able to stay at sea for long, absolutely it's not my wish, but I'm saying that because we just want to develop Croatia more evenly, absolutely we want to, we don't want people leaving the island, we want to, but we just have to take that into account. In further presentation, here is a proposal for a single distribution of income from income tax, 60, 17, 6, 7, 17. I think he's simpler, it's a step forward, absolutely, but if he's completely fair, if I don't totally agree with that. I don't know how much time I have left, six minutes, I'm gonna have to speed up a little bit... I'm a little slow driving, I'm going to speed up, but I'm going to try to say on a classic example of why I'm against taking only income tax, that's what's crucial, you've already explained it, I respect your opinion, clearly, but let me explain a little bit anyway. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have a municipality that's a real, real municipality of their incomes, I called it the Yellow Community. The municipality has an income of 86 million kuna. The income tax has 3.9 million kuna and the municipal contribution and compensation of 45 million kuna. You see exactly in this pie how much income tax ratio is small, you see only 5%, extra, and like this we have other incomes. Now, this community that we can say is rich, it has an income of 86 million kuna, it will receive an additional 1.82 million kuna under this law. 1.82 million kuna and has an income of $86 million. I'm not sorry that they're getting... But now look at each other's municipalities, here's the municipalities of White, the same actual community, the actual data, it has revenue of 12 million kuna total, so she had previously had 86, this one has a total of 12 million kuna, the tax has 2.5 million kuna, the municipal contribution and the compensation of 4.8 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you see how much that is in that pie, and it's going to get 771 thousand kuna from the state, means almost half of it, or as much as 1.82 million kuna from this municipality of another that has 88 million, 86 million kuna total income. That's what I'm saying is that it's unfair, that municipalities that have other incomes will mean not only income tax, but large utility fees, municipal contributions, taxes on vacations, concessions or some other property rights, that they will get decentralised funds from the state budget and despite their large revenues, it's crucial what I don't think is fair. You have your opinion, I have tried to explain here on a concrete example to say two municipalities that have different income income incomes will get different assistance from decentralised funds and it is not correct and it is not good. And finally, here's why we're against the new Finance Act which is a step forward, going in the right direction, but we're not entirely in agreement with that. So there should be some other income from the local self-government unit, according to me, the communal fee is the same permanent income of the local self-government unit. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The difference between cities and municipalities should be reduced. I don't think that's fair either. You were talking about, that cities have a lot of budget... I agree with that, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are also municipalities, such as my municipality, which is full of more, i.e., more than 70% of the cities in Croatia, of 70% of the cities in Croatia. Here's something that's untranslated. Compensation measures, okay, 5g. Well, you've appreciated that, and in the future, we're reducing, we're going to cut tax revenues, that's the trend in the world in Europe, we're probably going to cut, and we're going to bond with tax revenues. Here, it's also a little... Discussable, whether we will have to change again, the laws, and this is what I mean 11 amendments to the law since we have the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's 11. Clearly he was... Or 13, 14, this is 14 versions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope we're really going to make one real, whole law on units of local self-government, about funding, about "lex sheriff" Two more minutes? [[You've got two minutes left.]] Then I don't have to rush. I'm saying anyway... In any case, here we have a lot of leaders of local self-government units, former unit leaders of local self-government who may have solved these problems, which we have here today talked a lot about these laws regarding the very municipalities and cities. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think that in common, concrete things, this I have never been a destroyer, and I've only spoken to criticise, but I'm simply trying to make my contribution to this debate, this law, to pass a good law that will benefit all of our cities. And we know that the vast majority of them, the quality of life, in the units of local self-government depend exactly on cities and municipalities. We solve municipal infrastructure, solve kindergartens, schools, transport in our area, including primary protection, mass, mass of it, and if we want Croatian citizens to live better, we must allow the unit of local self-government to have even greater income. We clearly refer to them certain responsibilities, but absolute fiscalisation is necessary from the example I was saying, we do not want to go through Greece, but we want to go through Denmark and Germany that have a far greater percentage of the income of local self-government units than we do. Much bigger, Denmark has 66% and we have 16%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62920	Thank you, too. And at the presentation you have four replicas, without the power point of presentation, the first is Mr. Known. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62921	Dear colleague, first of all I would like to congratulate you, I would like to commend you, because in our discussions many, lack of content, and, more so today, my debate was based on content. You also contributed to understanding the problem, but you pointed out the way and the solution to the problem. So I commend you once again. We need this kind of discussion. Knowing you, we're... I know you're not the only person on the subject, and I'm worth hearing other arguments, other facts, in order to get exactly what you said at the very end, all those laws that will go towards decentralisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The idea of IDS which constantly says that this rigid centralised Croatia really needs decentralisation, as you have testified. They will talk more about it, today on behalf of the club my colleague Tulio Demetlika, but a solution, where we will respect specificities, areas to be helped, but not to stifle and choke those who have economic potential and who today eat locomotives of development and asymmetric decentralisation. But it's a subject based on arguments and facts. But in the end, I would have come back, which Mrs. Macar said first, and you touched twice in your debate, compensatory measures. How important is that? Importantly, someone went ahead of the last local elections, with his programme, on the basis of the programme, it was citizens' trust, and it is very important that this deadline, compensatory measures, compared to the initial one, was extended because it provides guarantees, implementation of programmes and projects. So they commend the HNS as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62922	Thank you. I wonder what the first power point of argument in this House will look like. The second, so the answer, you asked for the answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62923	There won't be a fight, because I see no local leader here thinks otherwise, but we're just all somehow in the same direction, so here, thank you fellow Sponza, for this commendation. I've worked really hard to be constructive, clearly we can't all think in the same direction. I respect the Secretary of State and his opinion and the Ministry. But here's what I'm not gonna give up on, and I think this should be appreciated. As for the compensatory measures, yes, I was the last time I spoke, then I was afraid that we would be in 2019. have less income than in 2016, which is not to say that some units of local self-government will have less income when we arrive at those 60% compensation measures or 40% of compensation measures in 2020, in '21. Mr. or when there are no more compensatory measures. I hope that this will not happen, that we will have all the expensive economic growth in Croatia, that we will have higher incomes on taxes, that we will have greater municipal fees and contributions and that local self-government units will then be able to do something for their citizens. Without money, there's nothing. That's what we all agree on both left and right, and this is a good debate. It is not a political debate that we have in the House, so it all comes down to partisans and Ustashas, but we are talking about concrete things, concrete problems and living things for the better of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62924	Thank you. Mr. Vesligai, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62925	Thank you, Vice President. Here is counterpart Prelec, you have indeed shown through this cross-section of local self-government, or the development of local self-government at EU level, by comparing with Croatia how developed democracies are doing. Of course, after the creation of an independent Croatian state in war circumstances, which was also logically universally centralized by the government. So it was a political decision, under these conditions justified. But after the end of the war, I think we should have started the process of a true decentralisation, unfortunately we haven't done that. There were attempts out there, first the government of Ivica Racan in 2001 to start with decentralisation, unfortunately it started with something and then it stopped, which is why it is because the central government likes to have reins in its hands and doesn't want to leave what's most important and these are finances to local units. That's why we have these percentages. Unfortunately, we have these percentages that local self-government has, and they are when you look at what exists in the developed West very little. It's something that's a fact. This is one small step ahead, though I must say, it is realized, these funds are left to the conditions of one good economic growth and, with all these doubts that exist, everything is still on income tax. I repeat again, it's not good, it's not good when you put everything in one basket, again these municipalities, the cities that are in Primorje they have a lot more income if you look at their original incomes per capita, they're much bigger if we don't just look at income tax. Unfortunately, we in the north only depend on income tax, I don't know, given the reduction in these rates from income tax how this will reflect in the future on our budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62926	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62927	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, yes, I was talking about decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation, I was talking about relationships... As much as they spend total funds as a percentage, I'm sorry that it wasn't a little bit more visible, here are those closer to the screen they might have seen better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I really wanted to show by one plastic example how developed Europe, Denmark, Sweden, Germany, and how it may be less developed than to offend Greeks, which invests or singles out for local self-government units much less. But when we talk about decentralisation, we can't talk, you know, our mouths are full of decentralisation and then some experts don't want me to insult them... Let's decentralize and then we'll eliminate 50% of the municipalities or I don't know, 50% of the cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't understand how someone can talk about decentralisation, let's go half the municipalities and cities shut down. It's not decentralisation. Or that someone might teach me something I don't know then, right? I showed that again in that second table how much France, Germany has a large number of units of local self-government. We can talk about whether we have fewer professionals in local self-government units, that there's only a head of professional, that they're not two deputies, we can say that we have some united functions, that we have communal directors, traffic directors, common several municipalities. We can talk about it, to make them more rational, but let's not talk about decentralisation and let's cut out half of the municipalities or I don't know, 2/3 of the municipalities, that's not going to work with each other. We need to pass real, correct laws that will regulate the functioning of local self-government units to be cheaper, so that these local self-government units don't single out more than 20% for their salaries, and I agree with that, but it needs to be defined, and I think we need to think about that rather than abolishing municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62928	Thank you. Mrs. Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62929	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Prelec, I will commend you for what you did in the presentation, but it is good to see how many units of local self-government are in developed countries, as far as we are concerned. However, we do not have comparable data in this presentation. If we were to calculate health, education, part of social care in all of this together, if we were to enter into incomes and expenditures of local self-government units, then the statistical ratio would be completely different because the expenditure on employees, for health and education, we have at the state level. So, then, I would advise the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to decentralise it as soon as possible in a way that they can transfer it to big cities because then the ratio of the cost of the state to the revenues will actually decrease. So then the share in local self-government and walking because you're going to decentralize them really will have a completely different one than it is now. So, statistics are very unusual and can be interpreted in various ways but here, if we changed it in our legislation then that image would change completely. When you changed that in our legislation, that picture would have changed completely. When you presented those municipalities, some municipalities achieved additional revenues from legalisation once and have large budgets but will not have it constantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62930	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62931	I agree with you colleagues that the single incomes of local self-government units should not be taken into account and I did not consider them. But the communal fee isn't a one-time income, it's a constant. So some incomes are, apart from income tax, constant and should be taken into account. As far as this presentation of mine is concerned, clearly I didn't have a team that worked on that presentation of statistics, I got a little bit more involved with it, helped by my colleague on these issues. It would be good if we could include the Institute of Public Finance in doing one real analysis not because of who's going to go left or right, because there's no left and right, we're all on the same side, that we have one real analysis of the Institute of Finance. I'm sufflified over there that something's been done. The kind I've been doing with how many local self-government units are really spending, let's see to everything comparable. They'll certainly do it better than I do, or they're just more capable and educated for that sort of thing. It's a big team. But I think it would be a start to start talking about how we will form Croatia in one future time. This is what I'd say is now perhaps some kind of transitional period. He used to say, "There was a war." We took care of other things. Today we need to start taking care of some other things again, the quality of the living, of the sewerage, of the infrastructure, of the schools, of the kindergartens. That's another priority now. But we have to have a starting base. What we have and what we're going towards. That's the most important thing. Here's a proposal for public finances to deal with this a little bit more and give us real, real data.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62932	Your Honor, Vice President. Mr. Prelec, you've just said something at the very end that I wanted to compromise, what we have is not what should be even development. So, I believe I don't know now exactly how many people were in the task force when they were doing this proposal for a model of funding units of local and regional self-government. But here's the secretary of state, so maybe he could answer that. All I know is that it was one big, wide group of practitioners and scientists, people who deal with finance. But something we've had since 1993 to this day and something we could improve to make it better. This model is sure I'm one of the best so far. Of course he could be better with certain modifications. When I think of a '94 period. Or '95. In particular, in a small municipality that I come from, the original income was about half a million kuna. Today he's more than five million kunas. Citizens say the same thing when there were 500,000 today when there were 5 million kunas. But when you were talking in your slide about how much the state actually spends on the 133 billion, that was about 22% if I remembered well for the wages, while that's on our levels, I'm telling our municipalities and cities about 10%. But you shouldn't forget what Mrs. Peric said. So both through education and through education and through defence and through social care is spent part of the resources of those people who are actually in mine and in your area, and through income tax actually that income tax goes to us. So, this may be one of the best models for now, of course, and those predecessors tended to be good models which don't mean it, and you said it yourself, it's living tissue, it's going to change for sure and in the future this model that's going to change for sure now. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62933	Thank you. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62934	Yeah, I was right at first saying that I agree that this is a step forward, that's a step forward, that's a simple law and that you should praise what's good. However, here I believe that he could have been better because we had warned some things in our first reading, and I will warn you again. It could've been really better, it could've been better worked out. I don't think it's going to be entirely this even development of Croatia that we all want done with this law. That's why here's the SDP club. It's gonna be me making amends. We won't be against it, we'll be abstentions to this law. And we pray that in the future here is when some of us do this to include a maximum association of municipalities that weren't so involved at the moment because of some of their personnel problems. The City Association was as much involved as I know and you respected their demands, not everything. Clearly, not everything is possible. And that's why I say one whole law, you have to work on it. It is important to respect fellow MPs who are both mayors and mayors, who are practitioners, and I know that in the Ministry of Finance certainly a lot, a lot of experts worked on it. However, theory is often one thing, practice is something else entirely. Practice should also be respected. And I say here in any case in the right direction, but the law needs to fix it a little bit more, and that's why we're going to be restrained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62935	Thank you very much. And with the apology of Mr. Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Prelec, I am pleased and every honor in this presentation, regardless of what may be some things methodological, but it would not be one way and simply this debate that lasts here for about an hour and a half shows that we can discuss some things normally, even though we disagree on something. However, what is evident now and I hope that both colleagues Tulio and colleagues Hrg will say that in principle we agree that this is the first step that is well done. Now the logical thing is that everyone sees it in a different way. Well, I'd like to ask you a question. Do you really think it is possible with one of these models to solve Zagreb, what I know Mali Lošinj, Gospić, Kostanica, Vukovar, Benkovac who have so many differences. Because income tax is, for example, in most local self-government units around 30.35% of income, I'm not talking about those poor people. So you have a communal fee, you have a communal contribution these down here have a huge house tax having that tourist tax, so I'm saying that this methodologically needs to be laid down to discuss and it's very difficult to talk about. However, what matters is that both the Ministry and the Government are descending towards local self-government units and that they are opening up a space for creativity, but what is key and what I am saying and while I was Minister and as a representative, and that is, let's put down our commitments, and then we can talk about some more significant downturning of some other revenue. And I think we should all insist on that and then no one will be able to talk about reducing the number of units of local self-government because then our county will get full power because it will be close to the citizens and will work for the citizens. This is how you have some state administrations, offices that are not clear to God what they are for and why.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62937	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62938	If my colleague Shuker agreed with you, we should lower our obligations absolutely, but then we should also do fiscal decentralisation, give units to local self-government and money. No, no, I agree, I absolutely agree. I need to get as many units of local self-government as possible. The head of the local self-government unit can't do anything without the citizens intervening. No one's ever come or I apologize. Maybe someone's here. No one's coming to the minister's office to intervene. They're all coming to the head of the local self-government unit to intervene. And that is why fiscal and all other decentralisation of Croatia can be achieved to increase the powers and competencies of local self-government units, to increase their income to simply have something to work with. And as for this, if we think that this law should be corrected, we will give on behalf of the SDP Club the amendment, so here if these amendments are respected then there's no reason to be against this law that ultimately goes in the right direction only with these amendments would be really good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62939	Thank you. Mr. Tulio Demetlika on behalf of the club IDS, PGS and LRI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Bajo. Today we are discussing the final proposal of the Law on the financing of the unit of local (regional) and regional self-government. What I want to stress right away is that our units of local (regional) and regional self-government really need a new law on their financing, knowing that just the last tax reforms have significantly affected the reduction of their revenues. We at the club IDS, PGS, LRI as the main reason and need for a new approach to the unit of local and regional self-government see the process of decentralising the financial resources of the local and regional self-government units and we believe that we should allow our units of local self-government to assume responsibility for development and economic progress especially for those who have all the necessary opportunities for this. However, we are witnessing that this proposed final law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government is not fully going in this direction. We expected this law to begin the decentralisation process, if it is not already possible to implement it throughout the Republic of Croatia, the possibility of introducing asymmetric decentralisation that allows individual areas to have more autonomy than others could be considered. So that's where we are consistent with the Secretary of State's saying that it has to be the same for everyone, and that's what countless experts have said as well as one of the models. This would allow those units of local self-government that have the ability, the ability, the capacity to manage independently, leaving the state with control mechanisms. For the club IDS, PGS, LRI's proposed rate of income tax distribution between cities and municipalities 60%, the county 17%, decentralised 6% and the balancing fund 17% is unacceptable. What my colleague Prelec said was to move a little towards the direction that Denmark, Belgium, developed European countries have. So this division of income income will certainly not ensure significant transfer of funds to our counties, cities and municipalities, nor can we say that this achieves full decentralisation of funds, especially when we know how many local units have lost through the application of the tax laws package and that those more developed units of local self-government will not be able to use funds from the Fund for fiscal alignment. Such a bill slows not only the further development of the most underdeveloped regions but also the entire of Croatia. Therefore, the IDS, PGS, LRI considers that the percentage of income distribution should be increased in a way that increases the share of the city and the municipality to 65% and 20%. In that case, the need for fiscal balancing for counties could be lower and the share of the Fund could be reduced to 9% and the rest would be compensated from the state budget, i.e. in other VAT taxes, for example. That allocation would allow us not to slow down more in their development, to continue to be a driver of overall economic development, to finally enable the counties to really take on greater responsibility in the planning and implementation of regional policies and further investment in their region's development projects and programmes, which in practice would mean that we started with so much functional and financial decentralisation. Therefore, the IDS Club will submit an amendment asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the estimated distribution of income according to the model 65% for municipalities and cities, 20% for counties and compensation for the Fund for fiscal balances from the state budget. The proposed bill, taking into account the Regional Development Act, which unfortunately has not yet come to our agenda, shows that developed municipalities, cities and counties will be damaged by two basics. First, due to the announced development index, they will not be able to register and withdraw funds from the EU funds, and under the second proposed distribution of income tax will be left behind. And here, I can add the third one that out of the compensatory measures for those developed who are increasing income from income tax and these funds will be left behind. At the same time, the revenues of the state budget are mostly increased at the expense of consumption, i.e. from VAT which is also achieved in the largest percentage in developed parts of the Republic of Croatia. Then how can you explain even development? I must also say that the IDS, PGS and RI are for even development and that we want all units of local and regional self-government to rise to the same level of development, but we must do so in a way that we do not slow down those more developed but by designing concrete and targeted regional development measures for certain less developed areas. Because of all the above, unless the search for IDS, PGS and RI clubs is respected, our club will not support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62941	Thank you very much, Mr. Demetlika. Mr. Sponza was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I didn't answer to replicate my colleague Tulja because we've never done it within the club, so I apologize to all of you, and the replica itself has offered me this last piece of communication between my colleagues Shucker and Mr Prelec, where I see a potentially dangerous replacement of thesis. So, Mr. Shuker said we have decentralisation, we need to lower our powers. And Mr. Prelec said that, I agree that in all the numerous performances, I said that local units from the state level should show confidence and lower powers. But let's talk on the basis of the truth. Incomes that are main for local self-government units are income tax. On average, I agree that they account for between 30% and 35% of total original incomes. Let's do a thorough background analysis of how income tax was moving in relation to the amendments to the Law on the financing of the unit of local self-government, whether it was broken up, whether it was balanced or there was a fall. When we cross-reference that data, then we'll come to a conclusion that I personally agree with Mr. Preleco. Let's put down the money first so we can give you powers. That's why at the very beginning I said it was a pretty dangerous substitute for thesis, because as we discussed today about the lex sheriff, those who constantly attack and call local leaders don't actually find anything else that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62943	Thank you, thank you, thank you. I'm thanking you, just a little bit. I thank you all for your good rep, but to Mr. Prelec and Mr. Shucker for not giving the Rules of Procedure an injury, because you did not replicate Mr. Demetlika, but to them. So thank you all. Thank you very much. We're all tolerances. Let's move on. Mr. Hrg, go ahead in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62944	What a nice, peaceful debate. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. No, no. All right, that's not why I kept quiet. The latest amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government took local self-government somewhere around a billion and a hundred million kunas without any compensation measures, let's just remember a little bit. Last year's changes, those last year also had an intensification of about 750 million kuna, but the law laid down the compensatory measures that settled it. It was then announced that 2017 is a transitional period, a year of follow-up and that we will receive a new law for 2018, i.e. amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government with a single model that is only fair and which only ensures one minimum of the fiscal tax standard for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia wherever he decides to live in the Republic of Croatia. And that's what this law is offering. There is a dispute here about whether this amount should be the same for cities and municipalities, whether some municipalities have more upgrades than others, they have for sure. Probably in some time that is ahead of us will need a little more detail to develop these models, and then valorize exactly what counterpart Prelec was saying that some municipalities have a social upgrade, so that perhaps in that part there are still some adjustments made. But this is for the first time, for the first time, that after more than 10 years of talking about having to enable that minimum standard of tax income per capita in the Republic of Croatia where he lives that the government has proposed such a law. This is the first time. And this is not a small step forward, this is a big step forward. And great colleague Peric said a little while ago, if we could figure out everything that's actually left to the local self-government, we would actually have a completely different data that would be different in these percentages. What I am now in this draft of the law between the two readings also rejoices that this period of alignment has been extended, that those who would eventually lose this law still maintain one level because it is necessary to adjust. But what I was saying on the Committee on Local Self-Government with full responsibility and without any doubt here I'm going to say that that period of one monitoring that will be monitored for some five years needs to be closely monitored and see if the local self-governments that are going to make excellent progress on this bill, whether their standard will rise, whether their income per capita is going to rise. If not, I absolutely say here that then you should approach the reorganisation of these local self-governments because you can't keep adding and giving to someone. This part of what we were talking about here is that we should include communal compensation and contributions and everything else, no, because that would basically damage those who are more income and that would be even more disproportionate and I think right now it's a good thing it's done. Where will this money be spent? That's a little tied up in the discussion of the previous Law on Local Self-Government. Well, people, my dears, so we all know here, although there's a dozen of us in there, but it doesn't matter, we all know that every local leader, every representative body of the local self-government unit, 90% of these funds will invest in the development of infrastructure, in the construction of roads, footings, waterways, kindergartens, halls, the organisation of social space, so economic activity will also increase in these changes of the law and in all parts of Croatia. These are the effects we didn't talk about here, but that's what's going to happen. I have analyzed the second electoral unit because from there I come, primarily Koprivnica-križevnica and Bjelovar-Belova County and the eastern part of Zagreb County, there is almost no local self-government on this move from Zagreb to the east that will not profit from these amendments of the law, there is hardly any. And this law is just going in the perfect direction for such units of local self-government, they've been coughing in the back so far, they couldn't develop, they didn't have the right options for some development. The other day in Bjelovar, I presented very little of that part of the calculation, so in Bjelovar-Bjelovar County there is not one city, not one municipality that won't go from one million kuna to more for its budget in the following year, yes, because they are very low, you have income tax by 600 kuna some have. So how many people were there so far mutilated about the possibilities of development, we didn't understand them. Now with these amendments to the law, that's how I'm experiencing it, we understand. And my city will get, and the neighboring cities will get, without talking about the municipalities. Now it's up to the local self-government leaders to use the funds to attract people to come and live in these environments so they don't lose tomorrow to a population reduction, that's a danger, that's the problem. But in any case, I don't see any reason why such a bill should not be praised, to say that this is fiscal decentralisation towards local self-government, to every human being, and that it has a solidarity component, an extremely large component of solidarity to those who have been definitely cut off so far. For these reasons, with all this other above mentioned club HDS, HSLS and HDSSB absolutely supports these changes, but I say, with a note, that the five-year effect is monitored and that it then goes sharply into some cuts if necessary. He gave God that he would not need to, that there would be development everywhere, but it should be said in advance that something like this would be done and prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62945	Thank you, Mr. Hrg. You have two replicas. First Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62946	Thank you very much. My colleague HRg, you mentioned the movement of income tax, I said in one replica, but we can say in the last 11, 12 years that he's moving somewhere in total income tax revenues somewhere between 12 and 14.5.15 billion kuna. Take that cut from 15 to 12 and the non-taxable parts, then the various political options of this and those of ease, but mostly that's where it's moving. If it hadn't been for that, say, if we'd left it staticly or what I know about income tax as it was in 2007, in 2008, income from income tax would have been somewhere on the level of 19, 20 billion kuna, it's simply facts. There's something else, though. When we talk about this decentralisation, no one says, well, what would you like to decentralize? Education and health care 37 billion kuna, I won't be talking to pensions, education and health care for 37 billion kunas. Now, what you should do is decentralize it down there, then direct the money down from the state register because you don't have original incomes, every city and municipality. After all, what happens with poor decentralisation, it's your best example of county hospitals. So in 2002 they were decentralised, someone decentralized some amount, someone set prices for them at which they could invoice something, and real and creative life is somewhere else. And all county hospitals except maybe one or two are in terrible financial trouble. So when we talk about decentralisation then we're talking about decentralisation of rights and decentralisation... and there we need to be very, very careful about our diversity and when you take the richest units of local self-government and the poorest then you'll see if your ratio is 1-7, and we can even take all income and more. And that's why when we talk about this subject, we should analytically put it all in, methodologically put it on some level that can be compared and then debated at one professional level without political burden, anything because colleagues from Istria and Vukovar-Srijem County can't talk the same way and that they're the best in this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62947	Thank you. Mr. Hrg's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62948	Yeah, it's not just the money coming down, it's the commitment. Well, I personally think that these amendments to the law should absolutely lower the obligation to obtain school textbooks for primary school education. Now there's not a single local self-government argument to say that he's not able to do it. That's the thing that can be done. And as far as this is concerned, you're absolutely right, that's what I mentioned that colleague Peric was actually talking about earlier. So let's take this one step towards more detailed analysis of everything that's going on and when you mention hospitals and everything else we have to decide in Croatia what we really want because we drop as some fictitious powers, we determine the money somewhere else, you get there or you don't get along, and that's how it works. So you're the founder of something you're not really the founder of. It's an example of schools. Well, local self-government and regionals, so counties are not really school founders. They do not have any authority other than that of the capital assets they allocate to some of the investments they received from the state budget for decentralised functions. They have no responsibility, there's nothing they can do because their school boards, so besides them, have a minority on school boards. What kind of founder is that? What kind of owner of something he can't decide about? So these discussions are actually going in the right direction for me because these problems are opening up. Well, we're still discussing today in the end as if we weren't different political options.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62949	Thank you. They have the authority to brake when they want to stop, yes. Mr. Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62950	Dear Vice President, here's another apology for my previous replica. Now I'm gonna stick to the strict Rules of Procedure. In fact, I believe that one of the key things in his debate was said by a colleague of the Hrgs that the effects of the allocation of funds from the Compensation Fund needed to be measured. The basis of this law does not define the precise purpose of using these funds, and in fact it cannot be seen unilaterally that it is bad or that it is good, because if someone should be in kindergarten, whether at school a basic means. I look at it from the aspect of improving social standards, looking at it from the aspect of growth, looking at it from the aspect of development, and not looking at it in the context of consumption. However, our experiences teach us, and I congratulate you for saying so, and that is why I reiterated that it is one of the key things that is good to point out once again in this debate. Because experience teaches us that a number of local self-government units have been allocated solely to the political key. A colleague from HDZ told me before my colleague Demetliki State helped local self-government units. I will tell you colleagues that just at the time of the HDZ government of the previous one, the entrepreneurial zone, the land for the needs of entrepreneurship zones was allocated free of charge. The town of Rovinj had to give up 8 million kunas from a fund where the state raised funds on behalf of the sale of apartments. In the context of the use of that money when it was a time of war, there are no objections, but it bothers me if I give it to one another for free, and I ask the other for something to give up, so we're not all the same example.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62951	Thank you very much. Thank you. Sir, I didn't see it. All right, here you go, Mr. Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62952	I'll just go back to that part about spending those funds, for their sake. So that's what I said in the debate. I have no doubt that the leaders of the local self-government will spend the most on development, construction and that I repeat and stress because it needs to be stressed. These amendments of the law also move the economic activities absolutely and not only in some large company that has got some big job, but it is distributed throughout Croatia where those who will profit are, of course, where they will remain on it will continue to be because they will develop further and progress. It's a normal thing. And that's another additional component. And that's now what I've also linked to the previous law we've discussed. So every local leader wants to help himself in a way that gets political points to make his own pre-election promises. That's his interest in it. Citizens, of course, profit from the environment in which they live, because they get that infrastructure, what they need or some other, social giving or something else they need. And of course the state itself gets. So each of these kunas that are directed towards local self-government, we ignore individual cases. There are, there's all kinds of stupid things. And there have been many cases that money has been allocated in ways that are wrong. This time by daily discharge, i.e. by daily inflow to local self-government accounts for the first time, we come up with one discharge by a specific recipe that has been set up in advance. So no more what I'm good for, then I'll give you, so who better to deal with?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62953	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Bulj, individual. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think three minutes ago the World Cup draw started and we don't know if Croatia will be lucky enough to go well. But what I do know is that because of this law, the municipalities and cities on the islands have not been fortunate and will not go well. I therefore submitted an amendment to add another item in Article 5 which would return 16% of the funds for capital projects on the islands. So, every government, every government has its own regional policy, and it presents that policy in a way that puts it into laws. I don't think it's a good policy for islands and land to be evened this way. Namely, one of the main, well may not be one of the main but it is certainly important that the prime minister's emphasis in many debates was that the Ministry of Regional Development formed the Office for the Islands, and now something that exists in the existing law is deleted. So why did Mr. Hrg also speak in his debate how many municipalities and cities in his constituency, that is, in the part of Croatia where he comes from, get more of this law, and I would have to talk about how many municipalities and cities in the part where I live will get less. Therefore, regardless of what the club has announced to be abstention I will unfortunately have to vote against this law unless the amendment is accepted. And since there are five of us left in the hall, I think it would actually be good if the amendment of those who stayed until the end of the debate had been accepted or at least partially accepted. Here I hope that by the time we get there, then the vote will try to find a better solution for the islands, and if not, unfortunately I won't be able to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62955	Thank you, Mr. Bauk. Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić has the right to the final word if he wants to, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll just take a minute. What I want first of all is to thank all the parliamentary representatives who discussed on behalf of the clubs or in individual debates. The debates are indeed that I was particularly pleased with both the constructive and the content, and I thank you for the support and praise we have heard. Congratulations and thank you for your efforts in making the presentation. The only thing a colleague mentions is some kind of tablet and copyright, so I don't know how you're gonna handle it, I guess. ... What I certainly want to say is that I think it's really a very good law, a big step towards decentralisation, towards greater equality, transparency, simplicity, justice, but certainly what's most important is strengthening the fiscal capacity of local self-government units. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Many experts from the Faculty of Economics, Institute of Public Finance, as well as associations of cities, associations of municipalities and counties participated in the drafting of the legislative proposal and in all these and analyses of various variations, including the final ones we have proposed here. So this law, as we said, leaves to local self-government units an annual amount somewhere at a billion and 400, a billion and 500 million kuna. This will certainly enable them to provide much better and much more quality public service to citizens in general, but also to invest in a number of capital projects, in investments, in development and everything that mayors or councils consider necessary and best for citizens in their space. Here's what I expect, finally, is the support of the law and its vote, and here's another thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62957	Thank you, too. I am concluding the debate and we will vote on what is said when the conditions are met, and on Tuesday we will continue at 9.30 with the Final Proposal for the Law on Audit, meaning second reading, second most likely reading. Thank you very much and goodbye! Session interrupted at 16.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62958	We're going to the last law we're going to vote on today. This is the final draft law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional self-government), second reading, P.Z. No. 200. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the IDS, PGS, RI, SDP and Arsen Bauk's representative club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is another State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, respected Zeljko Tufekčić. Let's take it in a row. First, it is an amendment to the IDS, PGS and RI Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62959	The amendment is not accepted. Proposal to increase the share of the municipality, i.e. from 60% to 65%, from 17% to 20, and to reduce the share of fiscal balance from 17% to 9%, and to make up for the rest from the state budget, i.e. in other taxes, for example, VAT is not accepted. The reason is that the implementation of this law already has a significant fiscal impact on the state budget since all income tax revenues are left to local and regional self-government units. The State shall leave to units of local and regional self-government and income from income tax based interest on savings. In 2016, this revenue amounted to around 370 million kuna and is taking over the financing of balancing aid for decentralised functions currently financed from the share in income from income tax at a rate of 16%. On this basis, in 2018 the planned amount of around €1 billion and €650 million in the divisions of the Ministry of Decentralised Functions was financed from the original revenues of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62960	It's obvious. Here's my colleague Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62961	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. We are not satisfied with your explanation, i.e. By rejecting our amendment, because we believe that this is exactly the division of income tax revenue will certainly not provide a significant transfer of funds to our counties, cities and municipalities, and neither can we say that it achieves decentralisation. I especially want to draw attention when we know that all tax reforms, all tax packages of tax laws have just gone to burden and are being broken to the back of local self-government units. And since 2009, these revenues have been decreasing. I must also say that it is precisely those developed units of local self-government that will not be able to use funds from the fiscal alignment fund, and therefore we have suggested that all units of local self-government, all counties increase cities, municipalities by 5%, as well as the county by 3%, and thus can be reduced. reduce the need to charge the part for fiscal balancing. And since the budget is being charged, and we see in particular from VAT funds that are also being implemented in the areas of units of local self-government, then from that fund, you will carry out the filling of the Alignment Fund. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62962	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 2. It's an amendment to the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62963	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal to increase the municipality's basic reference value by 80% instead of 50% proposed is not accepted. If the basic reference value of municipalities increased by 80, instead of 50% proposed, the inequality of fiscal capacity among municipalities was slightly reduced while cities and counties increased. The allocation of income from income tax and the reference values set out in this law are optimally reducing the inequalities of the fiscal capacity of local and regional self-government units, which enables evenly ensuring income for the performance of their laws of regulated transactions. In addition, it is important to point out that from the amount of around 1 billion and 950 million kunas estimated to be achieved in 2018 from the share of fiscal balancing, around 900 million kunas will be allocated to the fiscal balance of municipalities in 2018, which is around 46% of the total available fiscal balancing funds. For the sake of comparisons, the total tax revenue and the income cut of all municipalities in 2016 amounted to 1.1 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62964	A SDP representative club, a colleague of Mateon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62965	Well, we can't agree with this argument of yours. In fact, there are many more and many quality arguments that contribute to increasing the reference value for the municipality, to equalise the reference value between municipalities and cities for reasons because most municipalities in the Republic of Croatia are located in the rural area. The rural area has a whole series of specificities, for example, from demographic degradation, from inadequate municipal and social infrastructure, and that is why our amendment is going towards equating the reference value between municipalities and cities so that the population in municipalities can, therefore, be competitive, have the possibility of developing like urban communities. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62966	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. And we're going to the last amendment today, it's the amendment of a respected colleague of Arsen Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62967	The amendment is not accepted. This amendment proposes that the next distribution of income income from income tax be prescribed in the municipality, i.e. the island city. The share of the municipality, i.e. 60%, the share of the county 16 and a half percent, the share of decentralised functions 6%, the share of fiscal balancing 17% and the share of the capital project financing position of the island's interest in the development of 16%, all the above provides a total percentage of 115.5% total. Therefore, the proposed amendment is technically or mathematically incorrect and is not enforceable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62968	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62969	It's like a hair tower in Pisa, if it wasn't cut, no one would know about it. So thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Since you have already stated in the light of the law, in relation to my first reading debate, that you will not accept that there are 16% of the municipalities and cities on the islands that would otherwise fall out of the amendment for decentralised funds. It turns out that the biggest losers of this Law on the financing of local self-government units are cities and municipalities on the islands, so everybody gets something, and they lose. In that sense, I demand a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-01-0.u62970	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on the financing of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 88 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 13 against the Law on the financing of the local and regional (regional) self-government unit. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you'll get a plan for next week during the afternoon, we'll work from Tuesday to Friday, there'll be plenty of points to do. And now I'm giving a five-minute break just to get through this crowd while people leave the assembly. We continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. It's 13,54 hours. A colleague named Bulj, a colleague of Glasnovic, a colleague of Maras, reported.
