ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24659	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. Representative Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24660	I ask for a break in front of the party Let's change Croatia to say something about Croatian railways, from a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24661	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24662	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club in connection with a crisis going on in the film industry, our home industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24663	If there are no others... Here's Agent Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24664	HDZ club related to the film industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24665	A representative of the bush. I'd like you to turn off the microphone, please. [[Intruder Mesic: A pardon.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24666	On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break, so it's about the situation around the Levice Waste Management Center.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24667	If there are no other interested deputies, I'll set a 10-minute break. Thank you. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first club that requested a break is the club Let's change Croatia and their representative, Ivica Misic, will explain the reason for the request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24669	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I wanted to talk about the railroads, the condition on our railroads and the problems the railroads have today. What to say about it when we all see that our railroads are in catastrophic condition. What condition? I've been using railroads a lot and traveling trains, so I've seen a lot of problems I'm going to talk about later, I'm just going to try to say something about HH infrastructure. We all know that our railroad is simply ruined, I'd say the state of such a railroad. What's going on in the infrastructure? Currently, around 200 workers should be employed there, perhaps even more, but no one is trying to call these competitions, probably because they have extra people on the railroad. We know this well that a lot of things and cancellations have been received, but those of the technical service that these people need to do are needed, but no competitions. In order to bring the state of the union a little bit closer to you in infrastructure, we wouldn't believe that our infrastructure railways have 105 unionists, 105. Imagine 105 unionists who don't work, 37 professionals and others who get what they pay to be union commissioners. 37 people have a salary of 11 to 15 thousand kuna, interesting, and these 68 have somewhere between 7 and 10 thousand kuna. To be even more absurd if someone is eight years old, two terms of office he retains his salary until the end of his job. Is it getting normal for you? Is that normal? And our citizens, young people who should get a job, can't get a job, and it's necessary. So the emissaries, the detours, the people who maintain the railroads, the electrostructs, tomorrow should be 200 people admitted to function normally, but they can't. Since I've been using railways, I've personally used them for a long time, and I'll tell you only one story a month ago I traveled from Zagreb to Frankfurt and from Frankfurt to Zagreb and then I got somewhere at 21.00 hours in Zagreb, moved to the Croatian train to 21.40 that train leaves Zagreb for Vinkovce was minus 12, I got out of a decent German train, not that IC and the others, you're not driving us, but a normal train that is neat, clean like that. When I got on our train, gentlemen, I got a picture taken I got in my cell phone I can show it to you all, I sat in one car, the truth was the heating was that we could sit in the pumpkin but it was still a little warm, all the glass was frozen, that front door was frozen with snow. My bag was in one seat because the train was empty, but it fell there the way it was going it was like it was raining and the wet bag had to get it out of my way. That's what the Croatian train looks like. To make the absurd bigger I took a train somewhere this summer at 7 a.m. there was a temperature 35 out in Novska we were going to get on a bus and move to Okucana. I guess they were doing something. You can't believe the train that was driving the passengers we all got on two buses put us on, on two buses. Believe that people almost fainted. I still told the driver you're giving me, please turn on the air conditioning on that bus people will die. 100 people got on a bus. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] What a state of such and railways, and I ask the government to take care of it for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24670	Thank you. A SDP representative club has asked for a break and their representative Gordan Maras will explain the reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24671	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We asked for a break to support the coordination of the Croatian Film Directors' Association and the Croatian Association of Producers who have been exposed in the past days due to an individual case in one state institution or conflict within the HDZ between the two currents, they found themselves exposed to the lynch and haranguing of several parliamentary representatives who generalise and place everything in the same basket and make statements that Croatian film employees who created public funds are an interesting network of clients. Since these representatives did not specifically mention them in any way, these associations and these people felt all together called. We are very clear here to say that we believe that our film industry, which is one of the most creative industries in the Republic of Croatia, is extremely valuable and that it has been working for the last few years of top results and that we can all be proud of movies like Zvizdan, which received world awards, which in Croatian cinemas has seen 42 thousand of our fellow citizens, how much, for example, it does not see in one season of Dinamo football club with paid tickets. And now that we compare how much money we have invested in a Zvisdan and how much of it the Republic of Croatia and its citizens have benefited, we can conclude for ourselves whether we have benefited more from this money or from the money we have invested as a society, as the city of Zagreb in the club or that at least we have invested in the club, but we have indirectly invested in the HDZ sponsor Mamić. I want to say very clearly here that in the last 6 7 years, the system that has been set up in Croatia, regardless of whether there is individual deficiency, has contributed to Croatia's making instead of 5.6 films 20 films per year, has led to Croatia making the world's largest co-productions for the first time in a long time. Last year we saw a shoot of the biggest German co-production with Winnetou. And this year here in Dubrovnik these days will begin recording Robin Hood playing Leonardo DiCaprio and Jamie Foxx. So the top Hollywood production, and all this is the result of the domestic film industry and the incentive system, which was introduced by the HDZ government and supported by the SDP along the way. And that's how we had a consensus on it until someone because of internal conflicts within HDZ, left and right-hand HDZ is now using it for a political platform to mark an entire industry. I said 20 feature films a year. The co-production industry brings together hundreds of millions of dollars a year, not criticism, especially when it comes to criticism that is marked by an ideological omen. So there's nothing but pure ideology and what no one likes about what someone does. But of course, it wouldn't be a problem if it were generally accepted in society. The problem is what these topics and these ideas that these representatives are pushing are interested in very few people in our society and it is about topics that have remained 70, 80 years behind us. If public money were to be made by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the martyrs of Mr Hasanbegovic from the 40s, I believe that neither Mr Hasanbegovic would raise one single vote against the institution. In this case, since this is not the case, as Zvisdan is recorded, as other films of Ivanka Tome are made, for example, so these are really great values but Mr Hasanbegovic and part of HDZ does not understand. And that is why we call here with the support of the Croatian Film Directors' Association and the Croatian Association of Producers' Associations, we call upon them because they also wrote to the President of the Croatian Parliament, we also invite the President of the Croatian Parliament to receive them and to give us clear support and to protect them from unfounded personal and herring carried out by part of HDZ representatives and all on behalf of their narrow and very limited ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24672	Thank you, Agent Maras. The HDZ advocates' club also requested a break. Representative Jasen Mesic will speak for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24673	If a break in the Parliament could solve the problems of the audiovisual industry in Croatia, that would be genius. They'd call her every morning. It is a touching concern for a colleague from the SDP for audiovisual activity. Touching. She was so moving in 2012 that they forgot to enter the budget and book funds for VAT returns related to the recording of foreign co-productions. In 2012, that is, when colleagues from the coalition government took over the Ministry of Culture with fat, fat letters in the documentation, it was written to open an article so that foreign co-productions in Croatia could be realised, the Games of the Throne, Robin Hood, Winetou, which employs hundreds and thousands of people, in letters of mass. And now all of a sudden, I'm worried about what's going on. I could list everything your government has done in 4 years to improve and improve audiovisual activity in the Republic of Croatia. It's not going to be a respected colleague and colleagues to solve the break, it's going to solve a calm analysis, all the problems. That's what we in HDZ stick to, we stick to analysis and strategy, we don't go to fast-track meetings, we stick to it and we follow what we said and solve through institutions and what happens in the audiovisual industry, we're going to look at the good finding of the audit that's been carried out and that's going to point to some things, they're going to be considered by the competent institutions of complaints, they're going to bring their own opinion, their own right. The group, cultural workers who are of course interested in their work and their projects will be considered, will be seen all in one calm... It's not going to call for a break. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is this a political fund-raiser? We certainly won't call for a break to introduce colleagues and colleagues to the SDP situation. The left and right and central wings of SDP, the centre of Prague, Ibler Square and more. We don't have time for that. Therefore, we must work to address these problems. As regards the Croatian audiovisual industry HDZ has done a lot here and of course through the state institutions and through the Board of Directors in charge will support the Croatian film activities of co-production recording and everything else that is in some way our duty. In an interview some time ago, I said that I would like to see more movies with the topic of Homeland War, that I would like to see more of these topics with which today’s generation can be identified in the vast majority. The film really is about some events that we too as individuals who determine society. I'm saying I'd love to, and we'd love to. We don't take HDZ as our right to determine what movies should be, but what we know is what they shouldn't be. And we in HDZ know that some films like that 15 minutes of massacre in court are not the correct money for Croatian taxpayers. And that's something to be conducted both professional and social, including political debate. That's why we understand this break, and that's why we wanted to tell you. as a HDZ club, you have reason to answer your comments. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24674	The club of representatives of the Independent Lists also called for a break. In their name will be the representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24675	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. On several occasions in this assembly when we started amending the HRT Act, I was talking about the media war that Hanza Media is waging against MOST because we intend to change the Law on HRT, we intend to take several million kunas a year from his pocket, which he achieved at the expense of our most vulnerable citizens. There is, of course, and it was obvious to everyone who had been following the media especially the morning paper that it was working. And now, in this dirty campaign, Free Dalmatia was included, a man was withdrawn from Dubrovnik who proved himself with columns and texts against the Most-s, meaning her scapour. The editor-in-chief of the Free Dalmatia has been appointed, the man tasked with this pre-election period and through the Free Dalmatia to tear apart the Most where MOST is strongest, means right in Dalmatia, in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Split-Dalmatia County. Today it is on the front page of the Free, so godfather Petrova from the street runs the Croatian waters, and then inside is the story of how someone pressured five employees of Croatian waters to fake a report on Lečevica. And you know what the truth is? It is true that five employees, or five employees, who are members of certain parties, have been forced to make a report that is not at all authorized or signed. And then, one of the pressurers, Mayor Sosic of the Dalmatian County, is illegally in a meeting with Minister Dobrović because he should not have those documents waved at all. And this report that these employees signed, which they were not allowed to sign at all, because it can only be signed, so the leader of the WHO man, Split, is contrary to the Regulation on the establishment of the sanitary protection zone of the source, National Journal 66/11. And imagine you manipulations, the Ministry of Environmental and Croatian Water Protection are asking for the rules to be followed, to make a re-routing because human lives are at stake here. Perhaps the source of the Jadro River and five women are threatened to sign it and then someone with it manipulates it, and Free Dalmatia makes sure that the story is as juicy as possible, then it needs to drag the godfather in, because the best man is interesting. And someone allegedly sent the godfather an e-mail and now because the man received the mail he slept with Croatian waters and he decided what would happen to Lečevica. He doesn't decide. It is decided by the minister, decided by the Croatian Waters Administration, and exclusively by the Regulation and according to the law. And be sure while MOST manages the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Croatian Waters will be handled in accordance with the law. These waste disposal issues are also visible by finally adopting the Waste Management Plan, which will be dealt with in a systematic manner. We won't allow anyone to engage in illegal activities, no one will be able to sign something that is against the rules. And then let them drag him into the Free Dalmatia Free Godfather whenever they need him, get him out of the closet as needed. We will insist on legal action and deal with waste management problems systematically. Be assured it will be so, and those who have some petty interests were those in the county, in the cities or anywhere else will not get away with it. They can hit us. So we're used to taking shots, but believe me, we know how to give them and we know how to give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24676	Thank you, Agent Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24683	Here's your esteemed representative, Bauk, before we cross...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24684	Mr. Vice-President of the SDP Club is seeking a 15-minute break to discuss the political circumstances of the unnecessary delay in the debate on Minister Barisic's night.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24685	Excuse me, we're now in one completely different point, there's a whole series of speakers reported. I don't know why you're coming to that conclusion. That's how you can come to that conclusion every day. Every day you can conclude that a point is being dragged away because a lot of MPs want to debate. No, of course I'll give you a break to talk about it, but I think it's completely missed because I'm saying, we've been discussing a lot of points at large, a long time discussing some points, some points that I personally thought could be discussed for a while. We've been discussing all day, about others vice versa, but that's how, there's a whole series of speakers reported, I don't see an excuse for that, but I'm giving you a break. Here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, raised by a colleague named Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24686	Yes, I welcome you. No matter how many advocates are entitled or clubs to prevent anyone from discussing the current agenda in this House? What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24687	No, no, I'm sorry, which is why the Rules of Procedure, please, must be defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24688	Article 238, the representatives are distracted by the debate during the agenda, agenda points. If we apply, I guess we'll discuss this point all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24689	We will discuss, continue to discuss this point, and according to the Rules of Procedure, I must give everyone who requests a break, a break. Therefore, here is the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Croatian Democratic Community club also seeks a break after the SDP's demands.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24691	Okay. Is there anyone else looking for a break? No, I don't. Then here's my break. I'll see you at 12 o'clock exactly. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] I see that instead of a respected colleague Arsena Bauka, the word on behalf of the SDP club will be taken by the esteemed Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24693	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a colleague and colleagues, above all what is now fully visible, it is totally unacceptable to delay the debate and push the debate over Minister Barisic's confidence. I don't really know why we're stalling this debate. Perhaps the reason for the new facts that have been established and appeared in the morning during today’s portals. I don't know why Prime Minister Plenkovic doesn't come to the Parliament today, and I don't know what the reason is for this debate about the confidence of Minister Barisic on such an important issue for Croatian science, for Croatian education you try to push late into the night. As you pushed the educational reform, which is unfortunately in the situation that all the members of the working group for the implementation of the curricula reform have changed and which unfortunately gave rise to the situation that the experimental application of the curricula reform is still far from the beginning. Therefore, children in Croatia, whom 40,000 first-graders who started primary education somewhere parallel to the constitution of this government have learned from their teachers that knowledge and work is something that is most worth it, and the message to tolerate plagiarism, and then today tries not to discuss it, or push the debate deeply into the night, have received a message that knowledge and education and work and effort are not important. This must not be the case in Croatia. Here in the Croatian Parliament, we ourselves voted the Committee on Ethics who said his own and said everything he thought about the case of the disputed minister mentioned here today with the fact that I will point out that it is not important here and this is not about the Minister or what his name is. This is about the fundamental human principle and the fundamental principle of politics. We live in a country where shop workers get fired because of two feta prosciuttos, and plagiarism is tolerated. Therefore, today in this assembly, I urge you to put this debate on the agenda as soon as possible, to invite Prime Minister Plenkovic to the assembly, which, according to his authority, corresponds to the Croatian Parliament as president of the Croatian Government and to begin to discuss the item of the agenda that was scheduled for this morning. Then it was delayed by 11.30 then it was now delayed for three afternoons probably in the light of new facts. And the question is when will be held. Therefore, I call on you to invite Prime Minister Plenkovic to the assembly to discuss here the mistrust of the minister, because if you do not, we will be forced to leave the assembly and we will not continue to participate in this Parliament's work until the debate itself. Therefore, I call you to common sense. I invite you to call Prime Minister Plenkovic as soon as possible because we will have to leave the assembly until Prime Minister Plenkovic shows up at the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24694	Thank you very much. Reverend Bernardic, I just have to make it right that this point was scheduled yesterday, you weren't here yesterday, you weren't here today, so you probably don't know that. She was, you didn't, she was scheduled exactly this point was scheduled as the first point today and we're doing it to the end. After that point she previous point [[/Intruder: Not true. That's a lie!]] the previous point, then this point [[Intruder Maras: Do not lie!]] Here you go. [[Don't lie, sir. That's not true! The National Council was scheduled as the first item.]] The next club of representatives is the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24695	Dear Vice-President, respected colleagues and colleagues have therefore been announced that the debate on Minister Barisic will be held at three o'clock. The government of the Republic of Croatia has recently completed a package of youth employment laws. You'll agree exactly that the Prime Minister can't let it out of his hands and run to the assembly when it comes to anyone else. ... You know your colleagues and colleagues well what I mean. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[I ask you not to throw away and that as we have given everyone an opportunity to say. And my colleague Bernardic said, "Let fellow Mesic say his own."]] Neither are we anyone, so we never had a single minister of Milanovic's government when we called him in, and when it was debated about Minister Jovanovic, so the prime minister did not show up in the assembly, but if I am not mistaken, then the Vice-President of the Parliament today, Mrs Opacic, was with him. You started discussing this topic with your colleagues and colleagues on Friday. If you look at today's debate from morning until now, you will see that twice as much has been said by a colleague from the SDP and other opposition parties, rather than by fellow ruling majority. So, you're stalling the debate. You're stalling the debate, interrupting this session and pauses, issues and all that. Much more, look, count the speakers so far. Count it! You're holding up a debate about what we announced on Friday you're stalling her so far and, of course, the MPs have the need in their individual debates to deny the complete untruths you're making. For example, dear colleague Maras said that HRT had not devoted a minute to Mr Barisic, and we all watched the Open that was dedicated to this topic, which is enough proof of how many distinguished colleagues watch HRT. Therefore, Mr Arsen Bauk, who requested a break on behalf of the SDP club, will be able to determine how many minutes SDP colleagues have spent so far. So the debate will be in three hours, you'll have a chance to talk about everything you started talking about on Friday. We simply can't go to the debates of Mr. Pernar's type who claims to have been harassed by HRT in a program sense, and when he's called off the show, you don't expect us to shut up like that. Don't interrupt the session all the time, see how many of your discussions you've had so far, and now that it's our turn to say our opinions, you say you won't participate. It's not right for colleagues and colleagues. It's three o'clock now, afternoon, not deep into the night at three o'clock in the afternoon. To whom it is a deep night, let him retreat and go rest. And you know where the problem of colleagues and colleagues is, if you think about the public in who abolished the transfer of parliamentary sessions with the amendment of the HRT Act, the problem was that before it was under the old law and when we had the permanent transfers of the session of the Assembly, so came a new editorial structure with Mr. NOvokmet and Mr. Radman, so they abolished it. There's a problem between a colleague and a colleague. Therefore, do not be afraid of the night, the night is just a better part of the day, concentrate well and you will see that you will have the opportunity to have a quality discussion and do not always interrupt the session. Is that we were interrupting the session every time no minister from your government showed up to us, I won't even mention it, we were lucky when he didn't insult us at the current afternoon, so we'll be able to discuss it adequately or watch out for you all the SDP speakers are shooting up, SDP excuses he has, we lift up the replicas and say SDP we'll pull back. Well, come on, you've got two more hours on Friday you've already started the author's work you've only talked about, you're not discussing anything else these days. Slowly, concentrate, dear colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u24696	Thank you very much. We would now move on to the following: - Final list of candidates for the selection of five members of the HRT Programme Council. The proposal shall be submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media pursuant to Article 25. HRT law. The material was delivered to you in boxes. Contributions to the final list of candidates are not multiplied but are on the Croatian Assembly website. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of Honorable Representative Jasen Mesic to further explain the final list of candidates for the selection of five members of the HRT Programme Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here was the pleasant duty to report on behalf of all the members and members of the Assembly Committee on Information, Information and Media and the plenary session. So the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 26 October 2012 selected nine members of the Croatian Programme Council of the Croatian Parliament, and at the constitutive session of the HRT Programme Council, it was determined that the four-year term had been held by dr. Josip Jelic, Mrs Sanja Ravlic, Zoran Shangut, Bruno Kragic and Arsen Oremovic. As their term of office expired on 26 October 2016, the Information, Information and Media Committee launched a selection procedure for five members of the Croatian Programme Council and published a public invitation for this purpose on the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Ministry of Culture's website and on the website of the Croatian Parliament, Croatia and the Ministry of Culture on 9 December 2016. The Committee received 31 applications, which were all received within the deadline, and the deadline was 21 days from the day of its publication and ended on 30 December 2016. The Committee discussed applications at its 4th session, held on 1 February 2017, and when it also held talks with candidates. 27 candidates responded, and Mr. Josip Jovic, Mrs. Zeljka Markic, Mr. Darko Markušić and Prof. Dr. Tena Pershin. I note here that an interview with persons who made a public call is not prescribed in the procedure and is not even a legal obligation of the board. However, in the past, such conversations have been held, and we wanted to keep a particular ossus set up in the past, so that regardless of the length of the procedure, because the committee session itself lasted more than five hours anyway. After the debate, the committee unanimously reached its conclusion with eight votes. I note here that the committee and committee members held talks, had the opportunity to ask questions, hear answers, examine the CVs in detail, but this session of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament makes a decision on the selection of five members of the HRT Programme Council. Therefore, a unanimous conclusion was reached in accordance with Article 25(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on HRT, the Croatian Parliament, is presented with the next list of candidates for the selection of five members of the Croatian Programme Council meeting the requirements prescribed by law and public invitation. I'd be free to read them, they're: Vlaho Bogisic, Prof. Dr. Ante Bralic, Matea Bublic, Ms. Silva Celebrini, Mr. Petar Curcic, Dr. Goran Črpic, mr. Franjo Gregurić, Mr. Josip Jović, Dr. Dr. Golden Krajina, Dr. Vlatka Lenić, Dr. Ivica Lučić, Zorislav Lukić, Darko Marinac, Željko Markić, Nedeljko Marković, Robert Markt, Drako Markušić, doc. ... Matanovac Vučković, Boris Mužanovic, Dr. Dr. Djordje Obradović, Milivo Pasiček, Mr. Zoran Peranić, Prof. Dr. Tena Peršin, Damir Pjaca, Mile Prpa, Tomislav Radić, Ivan Starčević, Prof. Dr. Ivan Tanta, Željko Tomasic, Trpimir Vickovic. Here's a list that's also going to get the council elected when they vote. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30399	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. And the first one came to the debate was the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30400	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here you could see from the candidate list what we from HDZ noticed when we were talking that really from this list it was visible that there are a whole series of quality candidates who can perform their duties in the HRT Programme Council. We were also satisfied with working on the board because we think that the debate was quite constructive, that it was good and questions, that there was a whole series of good answers and that a number of candidates and candidates had the confidence that they would be able to work in the Programme Council. I would like to remind you that the Programme Council, in accordance with the Croatian Law on HRT, is now set to have been reduced in comparison to earlier legislative regulations, but it has one demanding task, which is actually to oversee the implementation of the programme contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It should be borne in mind that work on a new Program Contract will soon follow. The draft of the Programme Agreement or its draft will also be found in the public debate and we appeal that all those who speak very often about the programme, including in this assembly, are involved in this public debate to produce as good a document as possible, which will contain all those programme specifics both in the thematic sense and in terms of the duration that is important for Croatian society and for the Croatian public to be found at the public media service. I would like to remind you that there will be four candidates still left in the Programme Council. Also in the Programme Council will be attended by two members selected from the ranks of employees of Croatian Radio Television, which we consider to be a certain way and a correct practice. The programme council is important that as soon as it actually starts working, and therefore we think that it is good, here we are before the selection process is completed for the members and members of the Programme Council, and I believe that both MPs and MPs will indeed choose those who can choose that duty when voting. Of course, the HDZ Club will be very active in the work of the Programme Council especially when the reports of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council are on the subject. I remind you that we have a whole series of reports behind us concerning the work of Croatian radio television, radio television from the past, so that we also see an opportunity to manifest ourselves. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30401	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that club of representatives of the HNS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30402	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues around the benign agenda. We need to discuss who will be sitting on the HRT Programme Council, a public service. Probably part of the MPs think they are people who are affecting the HRT programme, and then they will try to achieve something by political agreement to find people in that body who are likely to represent different political interests, perhaps even ideological platforms. But let's not have any illusions. The Programme Council has no influence on both quality and content of the programme or Croatian Radio or Croatian Television. The program is created by those who are chosen and paid, professionals. The editorial structure is the one that determines the smell and taste of the public service of Croatian radiotelevision, and unfortunately that smell is very unpleasant, this taste is terribly bitter. If you look at the records from the session of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council then you will see that for some time now people who have the authority of the profession, the dignity of long-term work activities such as the production of television and radio programs, have been talking in the wind for years. The tense relationship between the leadership of Croatian Radio and the Programme Council is reflected in one terrible boast, in the report, in the awareness that the Programme Council does not have any effect on status or choice, nor can it punish anyone for unprofessional action, non-compliance with important topics, because they do not respect the basic values recorded in both the Croatian Radio Television Act and the contract concluded with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Croatian broadcasting with a special emphasis on TV in the quality and content of the programme has fallen to the lowest branches since its existence. Croatian television when compared to all other public televisions in Europe has the least contact speech program on the whole continent. The entire TV programme is practically based on one voice show with relevant guests regarding the information-political programme. Poor is public television, which has only been opened in the heart of its information-political programme among voice shows with guests. Look at the channels of other public televisions in Europe. In a Europe where many social processes occur, both professions and policies are concerned, publicly debated, openly spoken, problematicd, trying to find solutions. Nine out of ten topics spoken by European television companies in Croatia as if they do not exist. We have built, unfortunately, a software framework which is primarily anacron, and then completely closed to ourselves and unfortunately, it can be said that HRT to whoever wants to know what is going on and what different experts think about it cannot provide either information or a platform for thinking. We cannot and should not talk about everything else that solves the very bad situation on HRT here because this is the story of the programming framework and of the Programme Council, which regularly at each session is very mild, very proactively discussing the shortcomings of this programme, and this is the Programme Council there no one hears or cares. When it tells you about the quality of the program of a person who has been in the business for 40 years, who has been in it, who is considered a top-notch intellectual, who has built a professional, impartial, objective man and an exceptional professional for four decades and when no one cares and when no one is referred to what that person is saying, which suggests, which is a matter of goodwill for young colleagues to teach, to open perspectives to them, it is not an echo but rather a very boastful reaction of the governing structure that rejects it. They're self-sufficient, they're the smartest, and then the question is, who wants to be in the HRT Program Council at all. By listening to candidates on the Committee on Information, Information and Media, we have seen that some of these thirty people have indeed strayed. They certainly have the right to answer a public call, we can't deny it to anyone, but those with television and the Programme Council mission have nothing to do with it. It's symptomatic when people come to do it from the valley, when people who think about the program know something because they used to work in the media of someone else or when someone comes in and says very confidently that they came to protect national interests on HRT, and then I ask them to list at least three national interests that will protect me so they don't even know what national interest is. The election of five members of the Programme Council will be a political agreement. The public should know that there are certain political relations in the Programme Council, that according to good old custom, the ruling have the right to propose to the majority and the opposition to the minority. According to the existing so-called The ratio of strength from these five people will rule four out of five people who choose. I hope that among candidates who are also proponents of conflict, retrograde political and social ideas, people who have argued the public, people who have used media space and, among other things, to spread impatience will not be on that list that the ruling will propose from four or that list that the opposition will propose from just one candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30403	Thank you very much. We have some replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30404	Dear colleague Beus. The legal framework that we voted here in the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately, has lagged down the powers of the Programme Council in relation to the 2010 Regulation and given great powers to the directorship and the principal director. I must remind you that we have also had discussions on the reports of the Programme Council where they clearly wrote that they are asking the director or director of data, information for several months, and that the director and directorship are completely deafening themselves. We had cases, though, that not only did the leading structure of the HRT deafen to the questions of the Programme Council, but it was also deafening the questions of the Croatian Parliament and the conclusions of the Media Committee. But that's something that we need to solve with a new media strategy and new media regulation. I expect that personally and your contribution. Also in the club's presentation, I said that the time will come very soon for a new programme contract, which is the instrument that the Programme Council can call on. And what you said about the Programme Council isn't what has a direct impact on the program, but that's the editorial structure, that's where we agree. However, setting the basic... in this programme contract can also contribute to the Programme Council which then oversees it, but all of us who can get involved in the public debate. In this legislative regulation, it is the only possible way to put in place some kind of force where the opinion of the Programme Council will be better and more respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30405	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30406	Kolega Mesic and you and the entire Croatian public know that one of the only practical powers is the only authorisation of the programming council that has been abolished by the amendments of the law and, moreover, together with the Supervisory Board, is not involved in the selection of the Director-General. So isn't it normal that the programming board doesn't participate in the selection of the principal director if we set the stage so that the director-in-chief doesn't affect the program. You're telling me that the director-in-chief really needs to influence the program, and then you need to give back the programming council's authority to replace it if it doesn't work out well. I'm not into that variant. I don't want the principal or the duty officer to have any interference with the program. But I want people who consider themselves the creators of the program, which are different editors, to know the hierarchy of values and, among other things, to be good education and for their own good will to those who criticize them and offer better solutions listen to what they say and none of it happens. Our great crime scene, I'm also carrying part of the responsibility, even though I'm one of the few who's said since day one that's not good, was the appointment of Chief Director Goran Radman. But yours is a criminal, after which there are two other performers of duty and the prospect of these officials having an impact on the program and shouldn't have. I am very interested in what you, as the ruling man, will now do in the selection process of the principal, will you really tell the public that you are in favour of the absolute professionalization of this job, of the professional relationship and of moving the policy from the public service. Politics is strong, strong, not only put its paw on Croatian television but eats its insides.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30407	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30408	Dear colleagues, I wonder in this House how long we'll be listening to empty stories, smoke curtains about human rights, phrases without arguments, etc. In the former system, everyone, journalists, social officials, was working on a warrant, it's known by whose order, that one party system. The books were censored, 24 hours you could censor the book. You had when you wrote one article, Vlado Gotovinac said in each article to a minimum journalist you could find at least 2 lies. You had what you could print on a warrant, which... printing and forbidden. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder what kind of people today have a future in Croatia, a free and independent Croatian duty, here we talk about human rights, people who have code names like Gizela, Filter 57 etc. And you will expect from these people the truth and objective information and fundamental human rights is the right to the truth. This is missing in Croatia, and that is why newspapers or self-censorship, only censorship and other censorship are because they are someone's files in Belgrade. We have an example. 20 judges, these are reports from the SOA that are a threat to national security. And expect that with such personnel, this country will be modernised. And that is very strange for me and that is why Croatia is one of the post-Communist countries and Slovenia that never executed there, this magic word, the magic word of lustration, the lighting, that we know the fundamental truth. Stassius had six million files on his citizens he had Stassius, where the wife was ticking her husband, etc., and what was here. How many UDBA files are still in Belgrade. And why some heads here are afraid of those strange words of the truth of lustration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30409	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Beus Richemberg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30410	Lustration as a concept means lighting or lighting. This is especially necessary in those situations where it is clouded or dimmed. And here it's been muttering and blackouting ever since it's been us, we've just been like that. You can call on some time steel, misery, trouble, so steel curtains. But you know, there's nothing better for us if we compare ourselves to what happened 30 years ago. We can do 60 years. We'll go worse. We want to talk about freedom of the press in the late 19th century. So nothing will be better if we compare ourselves to those times because we know that they were lead, I don't know where you lived then, maybe in democracy, so it was more comfortable for you, but for those of us who lived here, it probably wasn't that easy. In any case, you should look up to those who are better than us, those who went ahead. Why is it that when we talk about public service all the time we talk about what he looked like in dark names? No matter what totalitarianism, no matter what authority. We had an authoritarian regime and a lot longer than the '90s. But it's about being... Compare those who are better, those who have gone three steps forward, who have won new technologies, who are professional, who hold to the truth, who hold to tolerance, who hold to plural society, who hold to every man and his dignity, and not those who publicly label others, are beautiful to them all and everything without the opportunity to defend themselves. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Please don't throw away!]] We're not going anywhere like that if we step back. Open your eyes forward And get out of the darkness that you're trapped in, and you and a lot of people on HTV. [[Academist Rainer: Do not throw a fellow Glasnović, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30411	Thank you. The honourable representative has raised, Glavasevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, you acted on your own, and I would just like to say that Mr. Glasnović, first of all, injured several articles of the Rules of Procedure, one article 230, spoke ahead of schedule, 232 lustration is not a topic, at present as far as I know, and in the end of 238, he sent some insults to his colleague, Beus Richembergh, who was not appropriate. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30413	Thank you. I've warned a colleague as you've seen. I don't fully agree with all the points you've said, but it certainly can't be thrown from the scene. Now we'd move on to the next club of representatives, that's the "Live Wall's Advocacy Club" esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30414	Respect. There would be a lot to talk about program HRT policy, let the books be written. I have personally been targeted several times and such an editorial policy which in its nature is all but objective, HRT all but not public television and unfortunately its exclusive role is propaganda in the service of the ruling regime. You recently had the opportunity to see the show Half-hours of torture, or culture as anyone looks at it, means the former HDZ Capital of Culture Doctor of Science Slobodan Prosperov Novak literally insulted me for four minutes. And HRT found it meaningful to include it in the culture show. That's one example. And here's another example: it's AGIT-PROM, agitation and propaganda. However, there are things that HRT unfortunately doesn't talk about, and that was recently a topic for you, it was about people who made reports in Syria. So they've traveled there many times. Hrvoje Ivancic says it is working on HRT, why public television does not want you to know how to live under the control of the Syrian government. What's this about? They made a movie, went there, interviewed 30 people. However, this report was not in line with watchful now this thought with the ideological commitment of the HRT because the ideological commitment of the HRT is that the Syrian government must leave, and probably as far as I understand from this report was actually the conclusion that it was better to live under the control of the Syrian government than those pro-Western rebels. And censorship, so the movie can't be shown. And there's a subject, let's say, that's not spoken of. I just got a text from a girl named Anna Aracic, she says like this. It says: “8.2. the tender for defence scholarships, which this year amount to 400 kuna per month or 4000 kuna per year. It was the same six years ago as 10000 kunas." So six years ago, students received 1,000 kunas a month. Three years ago, it was reduced to 7000 kuna and defence scholarships annually, i.e. 700 kuna per month, and last year it was reduced to 5000 kuna per year, respectively, to 500 kuna per month. The number of scholarships allowed is increasing every year, and the thresholds are increasing. So not only is the scholarship reduced from 1,000 to 400 per month, but every year there are fewer and fewer students who have rights to them. That 400 kuna money is paid monthly at 8 months. So it's the end of academic year. The end is usually as the exams are given at 10 can be passed, i.e. At nine months is the last deadline. But the classes themselves end in the sixth, and in the eighth, these scholarships are paid. He says, the problem is more than obvious how they survive a year with a scholarship that doesn't even cover home expenses, with a scholarship that comes at the end of the year, which is getting smaller and smaller every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30415	Comrade Pernar, I don't doubt that you will somehow link it to the selection of five members of the HRT Programme Council, but that's the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30416	It is the fact that members of the HRT Programme Council who today are those who manage television, unfortunately, are not the subject, considered the issue important. It means that the scholarships are one year late and the biggest problem in the education system is being presented by Ivan Pernar, a man who, without anyone asking to check the truth, has been violently incurring schools, poses a threat, letters to schools, etc. And the Programme Council is what essentially decides on a program that will come out, and that program, as I said, is essentially the bottom of the bottom. Real issues, the real problems of this society are ignored, and all news starts with HDZ news as well as when it was a pre-election campaign. It means total instrumentalization of state television. The programme council currently run by HRT is not capable of leading further. See the example of the Watch Tower. The audience of the journal has fallen dramatically. And why is that? Because people are tired of that propaganda being served. And then what did the Program Council do? What solution did they find? They said instead of taking half an hour, the journal would last an hour. Now that tortures our citizens who want to, or don't have to watch for an hour. Imagine an hour of torture. And that same government that actually mutilated public television, that same government that put her in the service to say creepy propaganda. When I say creepy propaganda, I say for a reason. They'll name the HRT Council again. Although we are voting tomorrow on the trust of Minister Barisic, his plagiarist, that the person who admitted to being a plagiarist who signed it without stating who she prescribed it from, and she portrayed it as her work, that person and such a person is the minister of education. No journal has started with breaking news about it, however, Ivan Pernar was breaking news on all the media. Imagine a paradox, whether it's a greater danger to people's trust in the system that I took pictures with some kids, students, whatever you call it, or a bigger problem is that the minister is a plagiarizer, which the educational system is also politically instrumentalised and unfortunately placed in the service of a party in power. The Programme Council is responsible for this and cannot escape from it. I wish that as problems in education, it is said that children are starving in schools, that textbooks are too expensive, that they change each year, that parents have to buy new ones, that so many have to borrow to buy children textbooks instead of the state being the one financing these textbooks and that textbooks change constantly because this constant change of textbooks is insane, especially in elementary schools. And why is that? Because the program is not to say the same, but the program hasn't changed since the '90s in the essential sense. There were few shifts in the program, and books are new every year, only to please publishers, all at the expense of parents and children. The problem on HRT is also not mentioned, as it is not said that the government does not respect collective agreements, that it does not give teachers and teachers the material rights that belong to them. These are all things that are irrelevant to public television, but the important thing is that Pernar was going to school, taking pictures with the kids. So it just means they're attacking me, not because it's really, I don't know the most important topic in the country, because Ivan Pernar is a bogeyman and a scarecrow and a danger whatever, but only to distract himself from the important problems in the school education system. It's sad to say, ladies and gentlemen, that important things on HRT are not to be spoken of, and irrelevant information, peripherals that have basically no great value, they appear to be important, as crucial, etc. The theme of the escape of young people from the country, the theme of the fact that over the last 15 years the number of students has fallen by 200 thousand, the theme of shutting down class departments in Slavonia, which literally the whole classes disappear, which teachers have no longer to teach to anyone, must then invent ways to complete the clock without getting fired. The theme of what, I remember when I was in V. High School in 1st grade was 35, 36 in class, now it's 25, but it's not 25 now students per grade because they decided to build a new classroom, but because the number of students is dropping. These topics are unfortunately not the priority of the Programme Council, and the escape of young people from the country is not a priority of the Programme Council. But what's the worst and the ugliest in that HRT building on Prisavlje is essentially the next, when they're doing a show about someone with the goal of mudring and insulting him, they invite everyone except the person they're talking about. There are shows like the Labyrinth that invites two people who basically have a negative view of me and the leader herself is against me. Is that objective journalism? Is objective journalism when you can't hear the other side, when we say public service is something that's biased against the opposition and something that's for power. I can't support such a Programme Council and I just don't see how this HRT policy leads. Instead of a party who was convicted of withdrawing money, whose members were in court, because of large malfeasances as a criminal on HRT show me. So Ivan Pernar is the biggest criminal in the country, Ivan Penar is the biggest danger to children for schools whatever it is. Is that real? Is that objective? Ask yourselves, dear viewers. And one of the special things that the HRT Programme Council insists on leaving out is the problem of execution for HRT, the problem of people Hanžekovic has done because of the TV subscription. I don't remember that there's ever been any show in these 25 years on HRT that discussed a TV subscription where you could hear the arguments said prot et contra i.e. for and against, or that there was no contribution on the family whose HRT subscription made the account, which was left without the means to live, etc. Certain topics are deliberately abandoned, and some non-essential topics are forced. This is all due to the programme policy led by HDZ. Unfortunately, while the SDP was leading the HRT, the same was HRT in the service of the then government, and in fact the only thing the continuity on HRT is to serve, semitronity and thus to say to serve these interests to those who are all but the interests of the state, the interests of the people, the interests of the public. I hope that one day HRT will become what it should be, and that's public television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30417	Thank you very much. An important exhibition has caused several replicas, so first it is the honourable representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, you mentioned defense scholarships at the beginning of your debate. For a time, I was the temporary director of this same defence, or fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their children. And what I can tell you is that actually, although it was not perhaps part of the topic, but part of the illustration of what you were talking about, you touched one very important thing and also about what we're going to talk about later today, this fund fully depends on the part of the dividend from the Croatian Defence Fund and it is again dependent on the value of the Croatian Telecom stock. Thus, falling constant values, i.e. the amount of money in that fund, have caused students and students to receive a smaller number of scholarships and scholarships in a smaller amount for years because it was a way to compensate for actually a decline in value. The real problem, however, lies that no government has been adequately affected by the management of the fund so far. And I think we just have to be honest here. That's maybe, not today's topic, but something I'd like to leave behind for these people sitting here, in fact, and especially Minister Bear in whose jurisdiction it is to finally start to manage this fund properly because it's the largest scholarship fund in the Republic of Croatia. Shares more scholarships than the Ministry of Science. And a very important topic has been opened by your colleague Pernar and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30419	Thank you very much. Although it's not a topic, we'll hear the answer of the esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30420	Well, I'd like to say that, you said it was a very important topic but for HRT it's not an important topic, for HRT and for the current programming council as likely for what will be later appointed, this will be a topic that will not actually be talked about, a topic that will be censored, a topic that will be kept silent. The authority that declares itself to be the rights of the defender sees how it treats their children. Well, it's not the kids' fault they're falling, I don't know the dividends of T-com. And I think that the state should, or should not, compensate that difference, not that the children receive these defense scholarships at the end of the academic year. And as I've mentioned in a smaller and smaller amount. I'm surprised no one sees the problem and no one wonders, and what about the kids, how she does it. It's just like that story about hungry kids in schools, it's just not a theme that's talked about as well as the theme of people collecting bottles, and not the theme of people freezing in front of soup kitchens or people sleeping on trams. There are no such topics on HRT, the programming council for them does not find space, but they are therefore forced, as I said other topics, news from HDZ, always of course positive news. And when it comes to repeating the trial of Eve Sanader and HDZ, then the word is left out to HDZ, but as Ivo Sanader is a bogeyman, etc., one huge media manipulation and God knows when it's actually going to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30421	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30422	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pernar, I'm not professional enough to know exactly how to function on HRT, but what I can answer as a viewer and listener to that same program. So, first of all, I'd like to say that there are a huge number of people on HRT who are probably doing their job very well. When you criticize, you probably think about editors, especially information programs because there are a series of programs that are very good. I don't know if you've ever listened to an Inventura radio show on Saturdays about politics. Very good show, listen to her. Now, what happens to these editors and what actually happens to meddling politics, I feel it at local level, say in my county where HDZ is in power there is, there only praises from the information center, nothing else you hear, just praises, not praises, and so begins every news. Yesterday I watched the Dnevnik, that central hrt journal and I had to switch the program because it was a bit degutant, there the president was filming, something is, I don't know what the president was actually going to say but it was all expensive funny actually. I agree with you that the HRT information program is wrong. Is he really under that kind of pressure? If that's something to stop her, and if you do, I agree with you if it's not the programming council, then I don't know who will. I don't agree with you that HRT always behaves equally, it's not true. Here was the government of Prime Minister Milanovic, many even agreed that HRT was a lot, even one of the most critical TVs towards the government. So it's not always the same, it's not always the same. The only question now is who and how he influences. I don't agree with you that it's some kind of supernatural influence now, so HRT has a constant pack, but at some point it probably has an impact and in this case it might be just an interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30423	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30424	Well, thank you, buddy. And what can I tell you? What can I tell you? You're the very witnesses of the HRT program. I'd like to impose another topic here. It's sad that the program council means it's currently removing the Mounted Process show, meaning teams from the news bar from HRT because it was one of the few shows that tried to point out the problems they were hiding through the satir. I understand that HRT must not speak openly of social problems. I understand that they must activate that power is the best in the world, etc. Croatia is going in the right direction and whatever. However, it is unfortunate that even for one satirical show, I repeat the mounted process on HRT by the current programme council there was no place for this government not only to tolerate criticism, it does not tolerate black humor. People can't even smile at the expense of this catastrophic situation. And because of this state of general depression and hopelessness, we have a situation for people to flee the country. And HRT as a television has great power because it has propaganda nature. So television can direct people in whatever direction it wants because it's the Programme Council, let's paint it as a manipulator and TV viewers are manipulated persons. And the HRT unfortunately instead of directing those viewers in the right direction to think critically, etc. Turns them into robot listeners, parrots, whatever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30425	Thank you very much. The next replica is an esteemed representative... Here you go, before the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30426	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I ask you to publicly confirm when the debate on Mr. Barisic's impeachment will begin, because it is inconclusive that we do not know that information here. The public is waiting, the viewers who look at us on small screens also want to know. Journalists ask every few questions about Barisic and on this side please tell the public and to us, of course, here in the assembly when this debate will begin. If you don't say we're gonna ask for a break and talk to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30427	Well, you know very well because you asked and your club asked when it would be. We said, we said clearly, you got a clear answer after a break for, the usual lunch break that usually takes place by 3 hours will begin the debate on that point. You know that. This is what you just asked rhetoric about, because you know it. But now I'm going to give you the word for the replica you've actually asked for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30428	Thank you very much. That and the public were interested, not me personally. So it's not the same thing you whisper in my ear and what you say in public. So here's the fact that the meeting of the government of the Republic of Croatia is over, that we're adapting to the term on an important topic. about the important topic that the Croatian public is interested in. [[Intruder Reiner: This is your replica to the esteemed representative Pernar.]] No, this is what I tell you what you told me to explain to you why I asked. Can I do that? So that's what the public is interested in, and that's why we asked. [[Intruder Reiner: Be my guest.]] And it's amazing that on such an important topic, Mr. Plenkovic cannot be honored to come here to the assembly to talk about it. There's so much about it. And I would like to replicate to Mr. Pernar about his debate that I am absolutely sure that the much bigger problem is HDZ's non-continuing curricula reform and its behaviour about Minister Barisic what HTV does not carry at all. So there's no discussion about it but I don't know how many weeks on HTV you don't talk about it. 50,000 people went to the main square in Zagreb. There is no letter, no word, and I agree that HDZ Barisic and the lack of curricular reform are a much, much bigger problem than you have visited schools, although I welcome that you have stopped working. But HDZ is a hundred times as much a problem as it is a curricular reform that doesn't continue is a hundred times a problem as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30429	Thank you very much. Now we will hear the answer of the honourable representative John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30430	Mr. Maras, I agree with you. Maybe getting into some schools, taking pictures with the students, so let's not say it's most appropriate. But you've noticed this well. There are so many problems in education from curricular reform onward and before they hide completely from the public. He's simply trying to pet his eyes to the public, and every time I talk to HTV4, the transmission is interrupted or transferred, or let's say the news that should have started earlier. Or let's say I start talking and once it's transferred to the government's session, etc. So censorship has taken regrets to say the breadth and proportions and it's hard to actually talk about. And like I said, no objective debates. The subject of which the Minister of Education is a plagiarizer, a copyist and is otherwise kicked out of college, and he, as the minister who prescribed, remains at the university and simply as I said about this topic on HRT, has no discussion but it is important that Ivan Pernar is the horn, the scare, the persona non grata, and I don't know which labels stick to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30431	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30432	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Pernar, don't you see that my colleague Maras deliberately obstructed our argument so that I wouldn't rephrase to you, so that I forget some things, see where this is going? I'm listening to your exposure here counting there's one 60 and a few times you said Ivan Pernar, Ivan Pernar. It's like every two seconds a drop falls off a ceiling on your head. It was one system of torture in Russia or I don't know where I am, but in my sleep I'm yelling Ivan Pernar. Why? I even agree with you. The HRT program council is not doing well. As it is possible that you are in every news, you have a cameraman who walks behind you, who follows you, who publishes your footage from all sides. You're directly on HRT. Well, you shouldn't complain. Isn't that exactly the system of your political action and the way you came to the Croatian Parliament? No one saw me for 25 years as the war ended, and then they didn't see me because we worked nights most of the time. And now in the end you're exposed, I'm not many here others. That's really sad. But what's the problem with the Programme Council? In the Programme Council, the problem is the one that mentioned Mr. Beus Richembergh herr von how it is already going. Why is that a problem? Because he noticed that one candidate knew nothing about national interests or he concluded that he didn't know anything because this one didn't tell him what national interests were. So imagine you who are the national interests Mr. Beus... leads to that is the problem. which was the programming council that affected such a young person as yourself, so it directed him in one such direction and launched him into orbit, imagine. Imagine if such a program council had affected all the youth in our country then you wouldn't be here they'd be here. But it had a positive impact on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30433	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30434	Mr. Culey, you've noticed the exact point that I've tried to point out, which is that I'm given an disproportionate amount of space how much my value is in a political sense, so it means that I'm being pushed nonstop to HRT with this story about painting with children, and that there are simply a million other topics that are much, much more important than that, which will say that you actually realized that HTV has lost the compass, that it's turned in one direction that he shouldn't have turned away. And thank you for that observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30435	Thank you very much. The next will be the SDP representative's club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, I'd like to say that with the candidates and the candidates on the board, we did have a constructive debate. We believe that candidates and candidates are very charming both in the light of the world and in the perspective and in the experience and in fact I am sure that in the discussion especially with your clubs you will have the opportunity to choose very wisely. I would like to make a few comments on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP on the basis of the talks we had with candidates and candidates. One of the topics we discussed with a large number of candidates was the issue of HRT ratings. In fact, while it is quite clear that the viewing in the context of HRT does not play the same role as it does when we talk about commercial televisions, it is important for them to be seen in the context of the sale of advertising space, and advertising space is the bread from which commercial becomes alive. HRT has freedom from it, but that certainly doesn't mean that the ratings for HRT are not important. HRT is funded from the budget although it does not have to sell, it does not have to slave to sell advertising space, yet ratings are important for HRT because it provides some sort of feedback on how Croatian citizens evaluate the quality of software content on HRT. And in that sense, it is also an assessment of the public service itself. I would like to say that this fact was not understood by all the candidates and all the candidates, but it's very important. HRT is pure for one example, the only television that has the ability to do so, for example. informative program but truly free of all influences, whether they are some kind of corporate influence, interesting, whether political influences and interests are at stake. However, we know that the viewership of the HRT information programme has long been spectacular in fact and devastatingly low. The reasons for this were that in this place we from the Club of Representatives and both SDP and HNS talked a lot about, and here's what I was talking about in my debate with my colleague Pernar, so I wouldn't be getting into this more broadly. However, for the SDP is an extremely important aspect of depoliticalisation of software content on HRT, it is also important for HRT to be free of these as I have cited some of the corporate interests. We also talked to candidates and candidates about their vision of what was missing in the program. In this regard, we believe that there were very important comments from those candidates and candidates who spoke about the lack of content for young people, as well as the lack of educational content. It is part of the fact for us that this means that these candidates and candidates recognize a troubled continuum, I would say Croatian education system, Croatian system of science and we will talk about it later in the context of the debate on Minister Barisic and the fact that unfortunately these candidates recognise that unfortunately Croatia is not a particularly good place for young people. If we want to change that, and I believe that here we all really want to change it, it must be seen first of all on HRT, on public service. In fact, I hope that all of us here will choose quality candidates and candidates and that we will really succeed in bringing HRT to that place and making it the kind of service it deserves to be, to get an honorary place in Croatian society, to give it back his dignity and simply raise that quality of software content to that level so that it can compete with any other public television in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30437	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. Here we will now return to the discussion of the SDP club, or distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic, who is now the guest of the distinguished Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30439	Like this, my colleague Glavasevic, I share your optimism about the election of new members of the Programme Council, I share your opinion that HRT should promote public interest, it is one of its basic tasks, promoting public interest. The public interest is to promote knowledge, learning and honesty, and to prescribe and plagiarise scientific papers condemn it is a public interest. I therefore expect that HRT, by fulfilling its public function today in the Parliament reports, is talking about these session interruptions we are looking for, the truth that we are talking about, that Prime Minister Plenkovic is avoiding talks in this Parliament on Barisic, that the topic has been announced for this morning, was announced for today. You said you'd have to talk about Barisic all day Thursday, and now you're afraid, afraid as a mouse, the kid won't get out here in front of the public, waiting for three hours. And public television if it's really as public as I believe it is, then all this debate is going to give us that request because it's a public request. The public wants honesty, clarity, respect for scientific principles, and no plagiarists or plagiarists for ministers. It is a public request and let public television convey it despite all the appeals of Mr Mesic. And we will either continue not to participate in the work or in the replicas if we go back, but only about Barisic and nothing else, until the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30440	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, I thank you for your comments. And yes, I think I can agree with you this is simply a terrible one practice of stalling, one ugly trick, one ugly maneuver, but SDP will be unlike some other parties here credible. So we want to discuss this topic, it's our topic, we recognize its public and we will absolutely wait patiently for the Prime Minister to come here and then we will discuss the subject we are discussing and start discussing almost 45 minutes, an hour ago. We're not running away from any other topic, not even this one. We have expressed our attitude about it, and we want to remain in contrast with some credible ones. And these ugly maneuvers and fines, so I don't know if my colleagues are already complaining that it was some kind of bad practice, so why are they following her, if they think it was a bad practice and they're critical of her. I mean, if they're already saying they have better practices, why don't they show us their example. He's talking about credibility again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30442	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30443	Comrade Glavasevic, I have a line for you. Okay, well, here's enough talking about parliamentary culture. So I just wanted to replicate to Mr Glavasevic when he was talking about ratings, so I wanted to highlight the example of a respected colleague, Maras, who showed how much he was following HRT because he slept through the shows dedicated to Minister Barisic, or to alleged plagiarism. What's just as terribly interesting is that earlier in the time of Mr. Milanovic's government, that, let's say, the election of the head director of HRT was not debated at all in this way but was under choice and appointments on Friday itself. And let's just say the debate about the law lex perkovic, if my memory of cheating was going on somewhere at 7:00 p.m. and she left somewhere at 7:00 p.m. So this way of demonizing parliamentarianism won't take us far. I'm sorry that Mr. Glavasevic didn't have time to listen to me. We listened carefully to him when he spoke on behalf of the SDP club, we thought we'd have a chance to replicate but here's obviously this way... I think he's saying enough about himself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30444	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar, but he does not have it, so he loses his right to replication. And now we're going to individual debates. First, a respected representative, Blaženko Boban, appeared for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30445	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues who are still here. Yes, Mr. Jasen Mesic now said in this replica, but I would say neither Bojan nor Arsen, in us in Dalmatia they would say not male. They are looking for breaks at a time when in some ways a parliamentary struggle is open to some details. I'll remind you, back in the seven days, we discussed the subject of domestic violence here, so it took a break to protect, please don't bother a colleague, and yesterday there was a topic of the journal here in the morning. So the president of the club went out and said, you know, don't be obvious politicians, I'm almost sure and then replicated behind it for two days plagiarizing the Work of Concar and saying shoot at the chest. So stay here, man, so we can discuss this parliamentaryly and discuss it. Not the minute you're not fit to retire, or maybe everyone's hungry, it's lunchtime, maybe they went to lunch. I don't know. But stay, man. Arsene would tell us in Dalmatia to be a man. Hold the fight. Hold the fight. Not only that, public television wasn't public television for them at the time because as we heard here yesterday in the Remorker affair, Mr. Stazic would, judge the courts. As just before here, Mr. Bauk would have banned the debate on the agenda. So how long, man? No more television, public TV can't be like that. She really needs to be public. And I'm going to say something here that Pernar told me, at the very beginning of the constitution of this House, that why do I not to him, why don't you discuss John with each other and tell each other what you need to do? You know, it's easy for me for you, but I'm scared of them. Well, public television is no longer afraid of anyone, public television will work and the program will work on the programming councils that bring this honorary home here and thus present what is really needed for citizens. Well, if a state official, therefore a parliamentary speaker, not a democratic, not a parliamentary one, is going into schools, so the children, the minors are being addressed, so should television keep quiet? For television, public should the public be silent from any side of the generality, in any way? That's what public service is for. And the public service of television is not just ruling options, but in public service television is paid by all budgetary officials, that is, all of this country's taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30446	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30447	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my dear colleague Boban, I must say I agree with your discussion, be a man, hold on to the fight, but you reminded me of something. Here is not far from here, I am the president of the City of Zagreb, the second high home in the Republic of Croatia, what my colleagues from the SDP have done today, they are doing in the City of Zagreb Assembly. And do you know what the reason is? When a dot doesn't pass or isn't on it, on the number they thought was supposed to be, they leave your congregation. But you know what's interesting? They didn't give up the fee that day for the session, they took the fees. So, the same thing they do in the Croatian Parliament, that's what they did in the Assembly of the City of Zagreb, and the Croatian public needs to know. Someone gave them and showed them trust. But that's the problem with those who gave them trust. They simply get up and leave the session, want to tear down the quorum of one and the other High House of the Republic of Croatia, and Parliament, the Croatian Parliament and the City of Zagreb Assembly. I said that on many occasions. That reminds me like when you take a kid's chocolate and the kid gets mad. Well, we're all here in this house to discuss something, to look each other in the eyes and talk. When we think of their former president, you see what's pulling back? Maybe that's why I can't look into the Croatian public's eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30448	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Blazenko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30449	I think our colleague Bernardić, the president of the current SDP, is also a member of the Zagreb City Assembly, you know what happened yesterday? He was in an informal conversation, formal or reception with the president, and then all the portals, of course, are not public television. This is the problem of public television announced that the president agrees with him that regarding this subject, which will be after the midday item of the agenda, would, of course, an hour after that from the Office of the President go to the deficit. Besides, be a man, go to battle, or be a gentleman and honor the deal. Why? They've been using the plagiarizer in the last seven days, but I think one 500 times through all the discussions we've discussed, discussed. And without anyone so far having a proper view of whether it wasn't, whether or not we had a debate, whether the debate was over, whether the conclusion went that way. So be either a man or be a gentleman, not what we talked about, like their party president is a liar because public television won't tell the truth, and now it bothers him too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30450	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30451	Thank you very much, Reverend Boban. You here now in the debate about HRT are diving some crocodile tears as you take great care of young people whose representative Pernar comes to school, and you did not specify which school. And I ask you nicely to understand that young people want to live in a country where politician Ivan Pernar is. And in a country where you're a politician and your party from that country, young people only want to run away with their heads no matter what. You are a difficult hypocrite who every day allows young people and children to be kicked out of their homes, to be delegated as the family of Fel from Popovaca with three children or Croatian defender Mirko Dukic with four children. At the time, you did not speak in this House, nor did you call your guardian for children, you kept silent, and now do not be a two-faced person and make up that the problem for young people in this country is the Living Wall and Agent Ivan Pernar. You've completely missed the subject. The problem is in this country regarding young people are hungry children in schools who reach up to 15% levels, children who do not have textbooks, young people who are waiting for scholarships, young people who cannot get free public transportation, which according to UN recommendations should have. These are the problems of young people. And if you want to use young people for this debate, then please take a good look at yourself in the mirror and find out for yourself what kind of policy it is and who's responsible for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30452	Thank you. Next up for, and forgive the answer of the esteemed Blessed Boban. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30453	Mr. Bunjac, there's a lot of colleagues here laughing when you're replicating me. You know for what reason? You don't know it, and now I know from this debate which I find crystal clear that as much as in the other debates, you kind of do. So, I'm Blaženko Boban, mayor of Solin City. For 12 years, the youngest city in the Republic of Croatia, a city that is the first in the Republic of Croatia for the youngest and youngest and students, students and students, has no more, no less than 17 measures. And for the seventh year we're the youngest city in the Republic of Croatia. For seven years, we've been the feather of it and let me tell you something else. Of these 17 measures for young people, all 17 measures were taken exclusively at the expense of local administrations and during the period of the HDZ government. Here's me you've been replicating on the subject of young people, and you've been talking to me about it, so most of your colleagues have laughed at you here, and now you know who I am, where I'm from, and what I've done for those young people. Thank you. By the way, it will look little, but I will also tell the EU's prize for programmes for young people, the city of Solin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30454	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Andra Krstulovica Opara. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30455	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I didn't think I'd need to say this sentence in this honorable House. Of us 151 I am with my colleague Jovanovic the only one who sat in the first session of the Parliament, the democratically elected Parliament in 1990. One of us, we worked for two years in the hardest times for the Republic of Croatia, at the time when the Constitution was to be adopted, when we had to make all the arrangements with the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia, when we had to decide on war and peace, when we sanctioned Croatian people's decisions in the referendum, when we voted the disunity we were 360 in 3 homes. Such empty debates, in which it is important to spend the minutes of a Croatian citizen, were not meant to trap anyone. We were creating a state. I've been sitting here for several months after eight councils, eight convocations, and watching this house bring everything down to the show, to performance, and to minutes taken from public space. Back then, 27 years ago, we discussed the transformation of Television Zagreb into the Croatian television that was supposed to be and was during the Homeland War, the second Croatian front, the television that was a public service, the television that every Croatian citizen was in the basement or in the trench like us defenders, reported on the state of play on the ground, about the state of freedom of the Republic of Croatia, when Croatian television at the most difficult times thanks to the assembly's assembly, the first assembly was a real public service. The SDP colleagues abused minutes on Croatian television by leaving the debate on the Croatian Public Service Programme Council because they do not have their minutes to deal with trivials, to deal with irrelevant matters. And as they do not want to discuss the INA, as they do not want to discuss the public service of Croatian television, but rather about the fus note, and they have been repeating it for several months, there is a situation that they do not want to hear what we are talking about, they do not want public service in the service of all citizens. During the rule of our colleagues on this side of the SDP, during the reign of Mr. Radman we came to the situation that the public service of Croatian television came to the lowest possible branches where exactly what Croatian television was strongest, correspondence outside of Zagreb was reduced to the simplest service that was supposed to give trivias from the field. So, in Dalmatia, reports from Split came down to me as to whether picigin was played in winter on Sunday morning, whether the invasion of mosquitoes in Osijek or the floods in Gunja, but the metrics were not reported because this Zagreb-centre, or those people who wanted to bring their television as their service for filling heads of non-essential things, actually brought Croatian television to a completely inefficient public service, leaving space to commercial televisions. The programme council that we have filled with several members just has to return to Croatia the importance that he had at the time when we were creating the state. There must be centralised, there must be exclusivity to which they plead, there must be room left for topics that are not of public interest, there must be a space of commercialisation that has caved in over a public service that needs to protect the most vulnerable parts of our society. We've had positive shifts over the last year. Croatian television has dedicated itself to defenders and victims of Homeland work, but has ignored the other minority, the one that is currently in focus for me as the most important minority of children and young people. Children and young people are left to commercial television precisely because of the wrong programming policy carried out by Radman and his because they tried to get the so-called youth. to nonlinear media, read social networks and the Internet. Encourageing young people to keep staring at smart phones, leaving education, education and the formation of young people who should be quality participants in the building of society in the European context. They left young people with suspicious programs, sweetening programs on commercial televisions where our children are bored by Croatian television, it is no longer cool. We're talking about these things. We're not talking about the show, we're not talking about performance, we're not talking about what we've been hearing for the past few months from the opposition benches. The opposition benches should be a corridor in what the government is doing, but not when something is not in their best interest to turn around and leave the assembly like this. Croatian citizens want to hear something that builds Croatian television because we are talking about Croatian television. They want to hear something of quality from all of us in order for the Programme Council to get the right guidance from this Croatian home that Croatian television becomes a public service that I was talking about at the beginning of this presentation, to be truly the right deposit of the construction of Croatian society, not one irrelevant key on the remote control in Croatian homes. It is precisely because of this behaviour that Croatian television is precisely this, the irrelevant key on the remote control of those who should have a credible, quality, correct and real medium in Croatia, a medium that will inform us of important things in our society. I am sure that the future directorship but also the Programme Council of Croatian Television will return to those positions that Croatian television had in the 1990s, the beginning of the creation of the sovereign Republic, that it will become a serious, important, true and modern service to which it is believed, and that it will not deal with the trivials that I have been listening to for the past few months sitting again after 25 years in this High House. I can't imagine that I'm in the same place, that the quality of the relationship with the public, that the quality of the relationship with the citizens who chose us here has collapsed so much since the period when we built the Republic of Croatia, when we built Croatian television. I will do everything together with my colleagues to make Croatian television what it should be, a national treasure. A national treasure to be preserved, not a service to serve exclusively and solely for political issues, for trivial topics, and for the rejection of people from small screens and radio waves. Why they gave up this topic, why they gave up the debate, why they gave up contributing to the construction of Croatian television, should ask them themselves. I am sure that most of these gathered here and all the quality colleagues who stayed here will want Croatian television exactly what I said earlier, make it a national treasure and a national good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30456	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30457	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Krstulović Opara, you said in your debate that Croatian television is a national treasure, that it should be kept, that public service should be as all citizens wish. If we were doing a survey today, I believe most of the citizens would say she's not happy with the program and what HRT is. And you've spent part of your debate on fighting with your SDP colleagues, instead of solving those issues that citizens expect from us. And you know why they're not happy with HRT and... ? Even with you in Dalmatinska Zagora and with me in Slavonia in my Drežnik there is still no HRT signal, it is one of the problems that we have not solved after so many years of Croatian state and we cannot watch Croatian programs. Another problem is that we want this public television to be available to everyone and to talk about positive examples from small communities and not on HRT because correspondence has been abolished in both Novi Gradišca and Slavonski Brod and in Orahovica and in other smaller environments and Virovitica. We expect that the people we choose in the programme council, define this programme, define the way HRT will work, choose the director of HRT and then individual editors together with the director create the schemes they want, put on programs those they want and not what Croatian citizens want to hear and see. And often he who approves it goes and what the journalist does is often censored. So we often have to go now and about HSS, we have problems with the party, and we're on TV all the time, and when the branches of the city, or the municipal organisation of the HDZ, there's nothing on HRT about it. Let's all be equal, let's be fair to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30458	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Andra Krstulovica Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30459	Dear colleague Vlaovic, I did not take this intervention as a replica or opposition to what I was talking about. I just pointed out that during several governments under SDP, HRT missed out on HRT to do what we did with it 25 years ago and to be a true service for every Croatian citizen. I pointed out exactly that the abolition of correspondence and the remaining editorials is actually the fruit of one misunderstanding, the importance of the presence of HRT and radio in every Croatian region. In which I pointed out very vividly that, in Dalmatia, we only know when we only hear about Vukovar in the November month or when two Hungarian ice-crackers need to break ice in the Danube. Or that you only hear about Dalmatia when editors are nice to come by, have a programming scheme over summer and during the winter we're not really dealing with anything. Croatian television is Croatian, not Zagreb. It cannot be a hostage to anyone's politics and especially not a topic that is not important for Croatian people and Croatian public service. That's what we're all agreeing about and I'm saying that your replica was no denying anything I said earlier. Of course, I had to point out what my colleagues here missed out on, the SDP people don't want to talk about this, they want to talk about irrelevant things. When we talk about HRT, they're not here. Of course I will point out in such a way and in such not parliamentary way. And I'm going to point out that right during TV management, during the SDP we came to a situation that television has actually become a non-essential key on the remote control. Let's do everything we can to get the television back to where it belongs to the Croatian people. To be a national treasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30460	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30461	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Baptist, everything you've said so far, I would agree with you. It's all true, when you were talking about populistism in this House, here I am for the first time, you were in the '90s, '91. I wasn't involved in politics, but I was always surprised why to this day we don't have honest Croatian television. We have a pro-Yugoslav television. I ask the question why so far not certain people have changed, made editors, you know that there are about a thousand extra people on TV, there are 1,000 extras, there are not enough journalists. If you go in there you'll see what kind of problems there will be. I'm just talking about this populist way of discussing it in the House doesn't make any sense. What a friend of mine called me today so I was talking about railroads, so come on tell me everything's good in Austria and railroads and sports and politics and science. So look at him telling Austria, and try to solve that problem. Yes, gentlemen, I'm asking you a question, we're here all the time discussing something that's irrelevant. Let's talk about more important things, TV is the same thing, let's work things out. Let's not compete to be nice to the people for stupidity. So I'm asking you, why hasn't someone made the order so far, so were you in charge too, gentlemen? Who's to blame? Normally, these guys are looking and taking the opportunity to stab a knife wherever they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30462	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the debate on HRT is very important these days, and it seems important to someone. It's so important that at a given time when a reasoned debate is being held, they just want to get out. Certainly, the program and content is the most important thing that should be burdened by both us here and the topic that should be discussed when it comes to HRT. Because HRT as an institution, how publicly well it should be out of range is ours, is yours. And we've been down here all along for that debate. Whose HRT is it? Well, I guess there should be all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay him, but they don't pay him to watch all sorts of nonsense and insecure content and insecure emissions and what doesn't contribute to quality debate, quality education and all the important issues. What you should say here today while you're running away from the metrics, and the metric is the point because the important things of HRT will still be invisible, uninteresting, and we'll have a situation that makes it look popular, etc. So, I believe you agree, Mr. Opera, that we should turn to content, a program that will improve visibility, popularity and return to important topics, and get rid of what is yours, is ours, because in one word it is a political demagogy that will bring us back to who knows how many more steps back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30464	The respected Andro Krstulovic Opara will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30465	You reminded us just now and stressed that the highlights needed in the debate on Croatian television. I am not interested in the visibility and popularity of Croatian television. I'm interested in her non-commercial, but actually a state-of-the-art role. But statehood isn't just the right of heart when it plays an anthem or it's entangled with a flag when it's playing our national team. Hostile and statehood is the creation of a quality and properly raised young man whom Croatian television has left to commercial television. There is no educational, educational content for our young people. And the second special point that bothers me in all of this is leaving software content from so-called. The provinces. You and I are coming from Dalmatia. Our colleagues from Slavonia or from eastern Croatia do not have that much representation in the programme of national television. And this is because of the optics of Croatian television that can only be seen from Prisavia we become second-class citizens because the trivial and unnecessary and completely irrelevant events that take place within 50 kilometers around Prisavia have become dominant, and the important topics that affect our citizens and the affirmative topics that occur in the rest of the Republic of Croatia have not come to the very top of the programme, nor have they reached television or radio. And that is what I expect from the members of the Programme Council and the future directorship to correct, that Croatian television is indeed a public service for all citizens wherever they live from Vitalina to Ilock, from Umag to Banovina. This is what this Croatian House, the Parliament must ask and must do from Croatian television. Exactly what we did in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30466	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30467	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Oprah, I have a lot to agree with what you said today about Croatian television because it seems like you're really saying it out of your heart. You said a lot of things today that HTV should be, which she's not. You also said what she is today. Unfortunately, Croatian television every time politics that comes to power regardless of the omen tries to ride and to have HTV in its service in any way. But when you talk to small people in our base, in our environment where we live, then you will hear the real truth about Croatian television that very few people are looking at and unfortunately have to pay 80 kuna subscription. Many people can't even see well, but what we can see on Croatian television is a mass of black white films that other commercial televisions don't show and we almost know them by heart, because they've been rephrased, I guess, a hundred times. Unfortunately, here's a colleague who said how many representations were shut down. Maybe they didn't say what the field crews looked like. Today he's a cameraman and a reporter and a cameraman. Where they are reduced by numbers, people have to do both work and other work that certainly does not bring the quality of Croatian television. And because of that, we have more and more demands on both portals and elsewhere to cancel the subscription of Croatian television. And the people really think they shouldn't pay for what they're not looking at. And HTV lost its primate in Croatia and commercial televisions took over the dominant on our televisions and on remote controls that are. And just what you said should be national television that the Croat is proud to pay, but also that it represents all citizens equally throughout the Republic of Croatia and not just as you said 50 km from the antenna, i.e. From where you can see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30468	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30469	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'd like to say that the words that the HDZ gentleman sent about HRT do not depict the real situation, so television is not our country's pride. We see, as I have pointed out before, that she has put herself completely in the service of the ruling party, that censorship and self-censorship are being carried out, that inadequate emissions like I mentioned earlier, are being moved from the programme, etc., etc. However, there are those who think that HTV is doing a good job, that it is proud of Croatia, and that HDZ is one good thing for Croatia, that HDZ will lead us to a better future, that with HDZ at the head, the trends created by HDZ and so on, etc. There was talk of the value of a large HRT, so I recommend that, instead of HEP, if HDZ is already going to privatise HRT and some money from the privatisation of HRT, it would be nice to buy it to the INA, so it would spare us all those troubles and HTV subscriptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30470	Thank you. The respected Andro Krstulovic Opara will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30471	An esteemed colleague now said two minutes and spent two minutes exactly the way I spoke at the beginning of his debate which he did not listen to. He found himself properly replicating himself in the debate, and he wasn't in the assembly, so we're talking about performance and show, we're talking about the role of a representative who isn't. I was talking about MPs in the first session of the Parliament, I was talking about my experience when we were building a state, and now we have an illustration of how a representative degrades the state and mocks the same. Discussing and discussing and replicating an advocate at a debate he hasn't heard is exactly the example we've had now. It actually says how much more important a minute in the ether than the metrics, it speaks of the behavior of individual representatives in this case of an esteemed colleague, who without any basis to replicate someone's media space, enters our homes, and thus imposes what should be a metric, and the metrics are gone. Let's concentrate on the topic, focus on what contributes to the Croatian people, which is a contribution to the work of this respected House, and not on spending minutes just to have a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30472	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of the esteemed representative Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30473	Your Honor, Vice President. As far as HRT is concerned, we can talk about HRT, then we can say that we are talking about one of the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. Why would HRT be a national interest? So each country's national interests change with certain periods in its history, so it wasn't the same role as HRT in the Homeland War as it is today or as a role in national interests then and today. What makes the selection of candidates in the Programme Council very important? And that is precisely why, by their actions in this council, they would be able to demonstrate in a true way everything that we should learn from Croatian television and in some way affect public opinion, opinion and reflection on what is happening and what is the situation. The Programme Council should also have an impact on what certain journalists, in what form, are sharing in different news. We have cases that often when we come out here to be welcomed by journalists from our media houses with various questions, so we, some like it when they are on TV, and some people don't like it very much, and those who go on TV have to be very careful about what they will say and how and how they say it because it usually depends on what they say on what they say on Croatian television and other TV. So a journalist can ask you one thing, stop you with one topic and ask you how you feel about the introduction of a military deadline. And you answer that question about how you feel about the introduction of a military deadline, so that at the next moment, in agreement with each other who had what they had on that pear system under their noses, they're already going with the next question, why our prime minister escaped or didn't avoid serving the military term, what do we think about what I'm thinking about or you and then no matter what you tell them, they only pass on one piece of it. And I warned them about it, so don't ever ask me for a statement again if you won't give me my whole statement on television. Because when you pass on only one fragment, the clip from the whole story he says one thing. Don't tell that whole story the one I told or any of you. Discreetly in this way affects all those who look, influences their consciousness, their thinking, and their attitude toward you and what you have said. I would also like to warn you about the role of the media, because it really hurt me because I was involved, and I witnessed it, happening in the square next to us Church of St. Mark. What was that about? The same day of 28.9. that was in the Croatian Parliament was supposed to be a debate on the pensions of enemy soldiers or Chetniks, and they were also the Croatian defenders who gathered here in the square also gave support to the Immunological Institute that we discussed yesterday. So we had these two causes, which is why we gathered here in the square to influence us with our protest on what's going on. Everything that happened after that was transferred to HRT was transferred to HRT as if some of the apostates of society, some thugs, some undefined villains came to St. Mark's Square, who are doing some rebellion, who are destroying something they want, like they don't know what they want at all. And in the whole story, the ministers, the prime minister at the time, were involved, can tell both the president and everyone who was in the story at the time. Where are they, with the help of these same media transmissions of HRT all these reports of powerful journalists who were climbing in and the cameraman to find someone without teeth, someone unscathed, hairy, someone... I don't know what they're looking for, someone who doesn't know how to say what he thinks and what he wants, and why he came here or doesn't know how to pass it on for who knows what reasons, where they've come up in such examples to show Croatian defenders, protesters who were there in one of the worst ways and all in order to favor the current government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they put these same Croatian defenders on one side, they didn't show what really happened, that we were embarrassed in front of the whole world where the police of a state are breaking into sacred ground and what is it doing? Fight, persecute those who created this country. Those who were from the beginning what I was saying out of this country's national interest, so it appeared in the worst possible way. So these same ones appeared as former soldiers from the past wars were portrayed as fascists until today and still appeared. The Croatian defenders also show themselves again as fascists in this Croatian Assembly, and this same media affects the next generations that are coming and we see in examples that it has affected many who are here and here in the Croatian Parliament and continue to pass on the same opinions on them. So the one who's putting together the programming council and there's Mr. Beus von Richembergh talking about that program council that he spotted a candidate. And I know which one he noticed as soon as the first word said it was about a doctor historian who's had a beginning since, there's also today that a man is telling the truth and only the truth and as a historian can only tell the truth, according to the conclusions he's learned and seen. So he's already neutralizing him at the beginning that he's not like the programming council because he's not like him who we don't even know who he is, what, where he is, where he's from and where he's going. Or maybe we do. Perhaps he is the creator who will create what some will learn from our children in the future by choosing a programming council. I'd see it that way. When he says he doesn't know what national interests are and let him count 3. National interests change with annual age and events, daily events. National interests are not something that's 10 commands of God, so that's that 10's a national interest. The national interest is at some point defending the country, taking care of refugees, and then you get a sudden flood, and then it's a national interest. Everything is a national interest, including the programme council and the HRT, members of the programme council and what HRT will broadcast every day in the news. Are they going to carry positive things or negative things? If it conveys positive things from this society, then those young people who look or don't look at or look at a personbook and look at someone else's opinions and create their own, they may see a positive example of what to do so they don't have to go out. Or are they just gonna look at someone who's gonna tell them nothing's wrong, they're all thieves, they all need it one way or the other, and where are we today in that story? Back to square one. The question of national interest is questions and programming council, HRT, everything that makes a young man's consciousness and what conveys information to us so that we are not deluded as we were from the '45s to the '90s, and yet today we are in error because we have not learned everything because it is doubtful whether the program council and those from HRT in an adequate way will convey all the knowledge and conclusions that the commissions who face the past will pass on to us and to future generations that we do not experience that historians of the type of Pupovac, the type of President Mesic, these from the document, and others create our opinion and consciousness.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30474	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30475	Thank you, Chairman. So that Mr. Culey, the first part of your exposure actually hit the core of the problem. You said that HTV was biased in reporting a protest against the defenders at Mark's square and that he was showing these defenders as violent men. I trust you, Mr. Culey, that you weren't a bully when you were in Mark's square even though once you showed one let's say a gesture violent to me. But in the same way that you were falsely portrayed at the time, that television in the government service as a bully so today this same television again in the government service shows me as a bully, which will say that the role of HTV has not changed with HDZ coming to power. That you continued the same editorial policy as the SDP, which means complete instrumentization, praise of the government, praises to the government, while at the same time Satanizing and demonizing the opposition. I've had it all on my own skin. And lastly, I'd just like to read the story of a single defender living without a pension in a stable in Budrovac. He says the misery of law is the only word that can describe the housing and other conditions in which a volunteer of the Homeland War Ivica Tilli from Budrovac lives. The man, he says, "There is no pension in free Croatia today, no roof above the head of a decent man, no health." "The reminder of war is memories, some photographs, PTSD, and other health problems." Please, Mr. Culey, your mouth is full of the Homeland War and the defender, do something for that man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30476	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed counsel, Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30477	My colleague Pernar, what you read last for the Croatian defender from Budrovec. I saw you sitting yesterday with your colleague Glavasevic, who was at the Croatian Defence Ministry, and I wonder if you asked him that as an employee of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Did he take care of the Croatian defender and his misery throughout the term of office, which he treated with Minister Fred Matic. That's right, that's one thing. And the other thing is that I am interested in you from which you came to support the protesters in Savska in 66th and now the square of Nevenka Topalusic unless it was self-promotion of you and profiling your party. Because you came in there, you made one shot, I'm the one from the stairs who didn't let you shoot that first version, but the other one where we dictated what you were going to say if you remember. Good, because that video exists in my old model where it was recorded where my colleague Sincic repeatedly has to repeat the same thing. Those were the beginnings, I understand. But what is this whole story about? You are the last, last one to take care of Croatian defenders because you have proved by your work here that you say that Mr. Pupovac is the greatest patriot you know, that we were aggressors, that you were learning Serbian-Croatian, that you recognize all the regions of ex Yugoslavia on Bijeljina, on TV or in Serbia. And that you love Serbs, I believe even more than I do, and you know well what I told you yesterday in the hallway, too, on your hugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30478	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30479	Dear Vice President, this is how I would like the attention of the viewers and the Parliament as many people as there are here to direct us in one direction. When it comes to this Council of HRT that we begin on these strategic issues for the Republic of Croatia, and I would talk about a group of people who are totally demonized and removed from public life. They're being led by black propaganda. It's done from Dennis Latin to today from these Trojan horses on HTV. We do not need the fifth column, we have these NGOs who are also leading, who say that Croatia started war when they announced the independence of the Croatian state, which is done by Amnesty International, which is a Trojan horse, these people, former Yugoslavs who now rule the media space most of them, and this group of people are called the Croatian Defence Council. And I would only mention, I mentioned the Veterans Committee. Do any of them know how many have committed suicide? That number's close to 3,000. People call me every day, we pay to the Serbian Orthodox Church we paid half a billion kunas, we paid me I don't know how many billions of kunas we paid to the Serbian pensioners who destroyed Croatia's state, partisans and so on. The Germans are paying. If they're still alive with their troops in Africa, Kenya, and what about HVO? Is that the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia? Half of the Croats disappeared from Bosnia and Herzegovina? Here comes the second generation of emigrants. I wish people knew how to conduct propaganda against those people who today would not have a Croatian state. What if they moved out of those border areas? We wouldn't be sitting here today discussing the HRT Council. Di is an action plan to bring these people back to their hearth. Most of them work outside. I think there are almost more Croats in Germany now than there are in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I appeal to the government to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30480	Thank you very much. The Honorable counsel, Stevo Culej, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30481	Comrade Glasnović, you have very well identified the problems of our society, especially those concerning the influence of the media on young people, on their consciousness, on their beliefs and orientation. When someone persistently from that position, who is in a position to slander, Satanize, demonize, and the other person is not allowed to defend himself, but to keep quiet because he may not defend himself because of some of his knowledge. Then we get by products, by products like in Croatian society we get something that we have a hard time dealing with in this Croatian Assembly, so we have to change many things because of one elemental accident which is essentially God's penance for everything that's happened. So if the Programme Council and Croatian Television do something important in their programme then we will be witnesses of further and non-treatment and emigration and further demolization of everything that may be someone else's and holy, someone dear, maybe someone loves something someone else doesn't like. And what I keep saying, and the truth is that national television should strive towards the national unity of the Croatian people. And so they say there's like a quarter of us in Hong Kong, and we're divided by tribes, by hills, by last names, by genders, and I don't know what else is waiting for us, but I think the HRT and the Programme Council should work on it and that one who spoke of national interests is a historian, not isolated by someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30482	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30483	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Culey, the Honorable President and fellow MPs. So my remarks were on the presentation of Mr. Culej, who put all responsibility on the problems on Croatian television on Croatian employees of Croatia, and I see that in this last correction that he had partially corrected it and that he said in essence what the real reasons for the problems on Croatian television were. So the real reasons are also the tasks given to Croatia by the Programme Council and the policies being conducted. A colleague Glavasevic here before leaving the assembly pointed out in his statement that HRT has the opportunity to achieve an information program free of all influences as well as to depolitize software content. In fact, this is not true because HRT is like public television in today's Croatia, experiencing an overall crisis, and the most crisis of professions. In recent times, we have all witnessed that HTV has become everything and at least a public medium. During the SDP rule on HRT, fear and terror prevailed and a pure one-party message was created, which unfortunately is paid by all Croatian citizens. The introduction of a new one-party similarity on HTV and the setting up of God's obedients during their government's nighttime manner has cut off all those who thought differently. Such as has not been recorded in free Croatia since the time of Croatian Spring when all the capable people in Croatia have been removed in their place. And that is why today we witness that HTV in its shows through anarcholiberal leaders and activists in Croatia weighs all those who promote anti-theistic and anti-Croatian ideology and all that they say against our country. This is essentially the reason why colleagues from the SDP are rebelling, so they leave the assembly because at all costs they want to stop the changes and do not want the totalitarian spirit to leave Prisavlje because it is not their goal that HTV becomes a public national service, so it is not just the employees who are guilty, but the Programme Council and the policy that brought them here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30484	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed counsel, Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30485	In response to my colleague, I will use an example from HTV where a journalist is, and her name is Helena Krmpotić, where she wanted to point to a robbery through Raiffeisen Bank where she went to Austria and found examples and money routes. And when she pointed out that, which I also think is one of the national interests that she's in service of HTV, she's on that same TV she's been neglected, thrown on the sidelines, she's not doing that job she's been educated for and she's had results through her operation on HTV. This is the fact that the truth is suppressed because of lies, and this same person today is not doing his job and no one from the Programme Council has asked why Helena Krmpotić is not doing her job and what she was educated for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30486	Thank you. The next individual debate is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30487	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's listening to the debate so far, and there's half a dozen facts about it. The first fact is that for some colleagues, stage performance is always a priority before constructive debate and that's something we watch over and over again, and that's fine if we approach it so that the assembly is a kind of stage speech. And the second fact is that the most talked about the HRT programme, and it is unusual that the programme is most talked about by those most critical of the programme, and it is precisely those in this assembly that transmit only one and the same kind of programme that would be part of the entertainment programme. I would say that as the three hours approach, some colleagues are probably doing a general rehearsal for a fun program that is well-cuted because these preparations take a long time, and the Parliament has unfortunately become one stage of the entertainment program lately. Unfortunately, that's not how it should be. But to get back on the subject. So the taste of all previous discussions and presentations here I say up to half two would be reduced to one single question that came from both sides, and that is what public service in Croatia we really want, regardless of the topic of the selection of the HRT Programme Council. And that question is actually the taste of all the questions and we've been listening to it for the last 15 years, and we'll probably still listen to it. And what exactly is the answer? Well, there's a lot of answers, and they depend on what side they come from. Politics will say one way, the Croatian lobby will give a second answer, employees will give a third answer, subscribers or viewers will give a fourth. So it depends on which resources we look at the question of what the HRTs should be. And all the time here in the Parliament we're actually talking about what was wrong, and some in the previous debate even said that they felt responsible – now they're not here because they're gone – but I would personally say I don't feel responsible, because in some previous times something was done wrong on HRT. I will also say that I do not feel responsible, nor should my colleagues here feel the responsibility that sits in this conference, at least on this side, for the fact that in previous councils, directors and organisation of HRT there have been some false pressures of any political pressures and not only on the administration of Television, but also on the administration of Radio. So I don't feel responsible for it, but I feel responsible for here's spoken words, and so the fact is what's relevant is that we're interested. But what are the facts about this subject? Well, the fact is, and we've heard that before, but it may not have been so decadent that in the last 25 years, a transition from state to public television has happened, but that transition has never actually happened. The process began several times, with several different directors, with several different administrations and it continues today. The restructuring begins, but never ends. And what's the fact about the Programme Council? So the fact that the general programming part, therefore the content, is that the HRTs in its programme are, in fact, in the last 25 years, in a good way away from those ethnic principles and journalism and media culture. We can disagree with that, but unfortunately that's a fact and that's what independent media theorists say that don't really belong to any ideology. We heard in the debate here that, someone said, the HRT programme is bottom. It's a tough meal, and I disagree. But I agree with the fact that the bottom of the corruption that took place on HRT within that institution, but also corruption within each public institution, not only of the HRT, is that fact. When we talk about corruption, then a variety of topics are being opened, but this topic of the Programme Council could be about the problems that come out of it. We can talk here about directors, about administrations, about shifts, about foreign production, about lawsuits, about procurement, about the disappearance of equipment, about everything and everything, because unfortunately in the last 15 years HRT's obligations, except for its obligations under the Law on HRT and the Law on Electronic Media, let's say he produced himself as a subject. That's right, but it's actually a reflection of some social and sociological phenomena. And unfortunately, the HRTs are often in those sections where public and state television should not be. Also, actors, administrations, directors, and members of the Programme Council were in these sections where they should not be. But I'll stick to the subject, and I'll actually agree with some of the previous partners when it comes to candidates, and here I was sitting on the Committee, and there were really various candidates, and of course they didn't all have relevant references, and that's usually the case. Some have already demoted themselves in the process of answering questions. Some of the questions of some members of the Committee were, of course, ideologically colored, which I personally believe is not relevant for the selection of candidates and members of the Programme Council, but that is the case. But from those candidates who have come forward, I am convinced that this time in this assembly and during this government I can objectively say that they will be elected, I am sure, those who will actually lead the Programme Council in the sense that the Programme Council actually should have been led before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30488	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to represent the Honorable Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30489	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Irene, we know that television needs to inform people, not create opinions. Right? Do you know of our Croatian Christmas Serbian TV has not been broadcast or congratulated by Nikolic or Vukic to the Croatians Christmas in Serbia at all? Does that ring a bell? You don't know. However, our television broadcasts ranged from 5 to 6 churches to the transfer of Christmas, which I find justified, human and fair. And what else is going on here? When we do everything the way we're supposed to do every normal people, then they call us later we're Ustasha, we don't like Serbs, we don't like these, we don't like that. Well, none of our external people from the foreign affairs that lead didn't object to the Serbs and tell them – gentlemen, so our Croats live there. You should give them the support I want Serbs to have in Croatia. I'm not asking the question at all that they shouldn't live, they shouldn't be polite citizens of the Croatian state, no matter what happened with us, we all know it well. However, they continue to ignore Croatia's state and Croats in Vojvodina, Subotica, Srijem and Belgrade. We will spit on our television as I think it is not good, it has not been good so far for the past 25 years, it should be changed, it should be done to be real Croatian Television, not pro-Communist. But we'll discuss it today. Next year, in 4 years if we stay, there will be another debate on Croatian television. We didn't move, where we were, we're here, what we did, nothing. What's going on? Nothing. It's all going slow. Our people look at what they shouldn't be looking at sometimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30490	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished MPs Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30491	Dear counterpart Misic, I will personally say that it grieves me when I look at the Croatian national minority in Vojvodina and their relationship with them, and on the other hand, why Serbia's Radiotelevision does not have the same criteria as Croatian Radiotelevision when it comes to a programme for national minorities. I can't answer that question. But the programme and the editorial of the national minority on Croatian broadcasting as far as I can see is in accordance with all the regulations and very well adhere to these regulations, almost, in the first five by some criteria built by agencies, let's say the Agency for Electronic Media. This would say that Croatian broadcasting is very well adhered to by its legal obligations when it comes to national minorities, and primarily by the Serb national minority. Why isn't it that way by Serbian broadcasting I really don't know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30492	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative, the esteemed representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30493	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I agree in a large part with your debate, especially in the section where you say that what about the programme part of the citizens want and expect one, HRT employees the other, and politics many times the third. In any case, this is not good, and one good example of the operation of HRT in the past is the case of Caroline Kristo of HRT employees who, as an editor of the show, thought differently from Mr. Radman who, at the time, thought clearly with the head of then-Prime Minister Milanovic, she was eventually also fired unwarranted. Such situations should certainly not be in the future because Croatian broadcasting should primarily be public, objective and work in accordance with the HRT Act, it should represent topics and interests of interest to all and from all areas of our Republic, as has already been said here, and it would certainly help not to eliminate correspondence in smaller areas. What is certainly important, and we must not forget that television is a window in the world of many, and in particular it plays a great role in raising young people and therefore it should be remembered that it is very important what content and programs we have on television and there is the greatest role of the Programme Council because we must not forget that what attitudes of young people we form today will have in the future when they lead our country. I therefore expect that this Programme Council will keep this in mind and that indeed in the future the contents will be primarily suited to young people and will form of them attitudes and patriotism and respect for all the standards and moral values they should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30494	And the last replica, and the pardoned answer by the esteemed MPs Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30495	Dear fellow Members, I agree with you that this case of a journalist actually shows an eclectic example of meddling politics where politics should not interfere. As far as I know, the case was strongly condemned by the public television unions, even the Croatian Helsinki Committee strongly condemned theirs, they called it, the extraordinary resignation of a journalist because of how much I know of insulting the director by attacking the freedom of speech and the media with which I would agree. No form of impatience, even if it comes from the director, from the administration or any HRT employee who naturally transmits it to the ether, is particularly unacceptable when it comes to insulting someone because he is a believer or a Catholic or any other basis. So no form of exclusion is personally acceptable to me. And if a journalist got fired for it, it's for every conviction. You mentioned correspondence. Yes, 11 correspondence, excuse me, 2014 has been lifted as far as I know. This is not how it contributes to regional monitoring of programmes and county facilities. It's a contribution to the centralisation of HRT, which my colleague Opara spoke about here a little bit. So that's not the way to go. I understand the need to streamline funds, but I believe that a quarter of the population that covers these 11 correspondents in this way has actually lost the ability to be regularly informed about their activities unless local televisions cover it, and we know that they don't cover because they don't have enough resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30496	Thank you. The next and last replica is also the distinguished representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30497	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Irene, you gave me a large part of the answer just in response to the previous line. In fact, you've devoted most of the debate to the quality of the program. So do you think that territorial coverage of the entire area of our homeland is certainly one of the quality criteria of the program. In fact, we have a case just these days from the correspondence of regional and abroad that was abolished in 2014 and in Varazdin. The town of Varazdin, the Varazdin County currently has no correspondence of Croatian radiotelevision in its area. Just to point out, there are 47112 subscribers in Varazdin County that, if they all pay 45516 thousand. And so far, these 45 million kunas are not enough reason to get their regional correspondence from Varazdin and Varazdin County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30498	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished MPs Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30499	I said in my reply to my colleague, I believe that rationalising can be done in a much better way than by eliminating 11 correspondents, including Varazdin, I believe that those viewers who pay the subscription and have no other forms of information via the Internet, most of which are older viewers over 50 years of age, thus showing research, deserve to receive quality regional content for their money paid through the subscription. As far as I know, there were two shows in Croatia today and the County panoramas, and they're pretty much watched, if we watch those gauges working on the Agency for Electronic Media and monitoring the ratings of the shows. Therefore, looking objectively, there was actually no reason to abolish these correspondence, or whenever it is rationalised, it is seen to be rationalised in the public interest if it is a public institution, and the HRT is a public institution. That wasn't the case here. I believe that a quarter of Croatia's 11 correspondence accounts for a quarter of Croatia, has the right to its local content not only because it pays the subscription, but because it is the obligation of the HRT under the Law on Croatian Television and I believe that the decision to abolish should be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30500	Thank you. I'd like to conclude a discussion on this subject. We will vote when the conditions are met and this will take place a secret vote based on the provisions of Article 260, 267. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament pursuant to Article 25.8. HRT law. I'll see you again at 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30501	The next item is the Final List of candidates to elect 5 members of the HRT Programme Council. The applicant shall be the Information, Information and Media Committee. The debate is closed. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall determine as a rule the implementation of a secret vote in the case where the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number to be elected, Article 260. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Article 260 to Article 267 shall apply. In accordance with Article 25.8. The Law on Croatian Radio Television proposed candidates are considered elected if they are voted by most of the Croatian Parliament's representatives, 76. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I propose that three representatives assist me in carrying out a secret vote and that of Blaženko Boban, Bojan Glavasevic and Ivana Ninčević Lesandric. You can download ballots in front of the big hall where the ballot boxes are. I remind you that MPs can only vote on one ballot in person, and only for candidates listed on the ballot. A valid ballot is a ballot from which in a safe and unequivocal manner can be identified as a candidate for whom the MP voted. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. I'm setting a 45-minute break. After your break, please return to the councilroom so I can give you the results of the vote. MEETING AT 12:30 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.25 HOURS]] The vote for the election of five members of the HRT Programme Council has been completed. I announce that of the 151 voters, 134 MPs received the ballot, there was one. The candidates received the following votes: 1. Nikola Baketa, 112 1. Vlaho Bogisić, 110 1. prof. dr.sc. Ante Bralic, 3 1. Mateja Bublic, 1 / 1 Silva Celebrini, 4 1. Petar Curic, 2 1. Gordan Črpic, 8 1. mr. Franjo Gregurić, 5 1. Josip Jović, 7 1. doc. dr.sc. Golden Krajina, 1st Dr. Vlatka Lemić, 1st Dr.sc. Ivica Lučić, 91 1. Zorislav Lukić, 83 1. “ You Are the One, ” 10 / 15 Željka Markić, 17 1. Sunday Markovic, 11 1. Robert Markt, 87. Darko Markušić, 4 1. doc. dr.sc. Romana Matanovac Vučković, 1 / 1 Boris Mužanovic, 2 1. doc. dr.sc. Djordje Obradović, 2 1. Milivje Pašičček, 8 1. mr. sc. Zvonimir Peranić, 16 1. prof. dr.sc. Tena Perishin, 14.1. Imamer, 1 / 1 Mile Prpa, no votes. Tomislav Radić, 2 1. Ivan Stačević, 2 1. prof. dr.sc. Ivan Tanta, no votes. Željko Tomasic, 1 vote 1. Trpimir Vickovic, 5 votes. I declare that for members of the HRT Programme Council, the following are selected: 1. God’s Word, 1 / 1 Vlaho Bogisic, 1. Isola Lučić, 1 / 1 The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 Zorislav Lukic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue the session on Wednesday 15 February at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the Amendment Law and the completion of the State Support Act, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 76. Thank you. Session interrupted at 13.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30504	... Dear colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Unfortunately, today we have an opportunity here in the afternoon to discuss this extremely unpleasant topic for the educational system in Croatia, for science in Croatia, but above all for the government of the Republic of Croatia and the institutions it represents. It doesn't matter what he's called here. What matters here is what kind of land we leave to our children and what kind of example we want to set for our children. If you're cheating, you must bear the consequences, and it's obvious that the minister cheated. His colleagues, Minister Barisic of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, were convicted to the minister by his colleagues, who were elected here by the votes of parliamentary deputies. So this is about the public body we voted together, which regularly sends us a report on the table and whose members we appointed. We all represent Croatian citizens here. So, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, the Croatian state institution in charge of ethics in science has ruled that the minister was cheating. In addition to this, in recent days many respected credible scientists have spoken, and not only have divided the academic community but they have stamped a great deal on this whole affair, which has now begun to spill over to all segments of social life, and most of all burdens on what is most important in Croatia, which is the future of children, the future of young people, future educational reforms, the future of science in the Republic of Croatia. In my personal opinion, science is the most noble and humanistic human activity. Thus, the science of activity in which all creativity is expressed and why the world progresses every day, and it is just important that in scientific work it can pull society forward if applied in the right way. But if it's falsified, it can't pull society forward and set a wrong example. This year, in September, more than 40,000 first-graders went to primary school. They also started their teachers on the first day of class, teaching them how important it is to know how important it is to work, how important it is to play by the rules, how important it is to give up because it is the only way to do something. And the only way for the right path to success are for two components to have good intentions and to have work and teachers just teach children in classes to do so. And that is why it is extremely important that through this debate and through the entire system of education and science it is respected and that an atmosphere is created in which it is worth working, in which it is worth progressing and in which, through denial and work, only through denial and work can be done. But I'll remind you, if you're cheating on a national prom, you'll be automatically expelled from the system in the current and next year. What's going on with the Minister in the front row? That's not why he was supposed to be a minister. That's what this is about. Therefore, we are aware that this vote of mistrust cannot change the complete system. A complete system from ministry to school to work, but it can send a strong message of warning that such things cannot be tolerated in Croatia. There are two reasons why Prime Minister Plenkovic himself is now somehow defending this situation. One situation can be ego, but it's not the last thing in the world and it's not the last thing that can be done is the government's reconstruction, and the other can be individual or particular interests. When it comes to ego, Nietzsche said that “Everyone has as much vanity as he lacks reason” so I ask that in this debate and in this place today there is no common sense for the decision that needs to be made. You must also show that interests are not sacred because here in the last few months we have been able to see the various interests of various corporations, various interest groups, various lobbies, and that is why it is extremely important and it would be extremely important for you to send a strong message to the prime minister today and end this story because this will not be just a burden to you. This will primarily be a burden to the entire education system in the Republic of Croatia and then to the minister himself. Therefore, under these conditions and under the conditions in which the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education has said its, under the conditions in which a large number of credible scientists have spoken theirs, under the conditions in which Croatia as a whole, most of this country stands on the fact that something has been done that the minister should leave is definitely going to be the greatest weight in the work right now. And I think that by wishing him well and wanting a well-educated reform, wishing good to Croatia you have to do what you have to do and that is to initiate the change of the Minister of Science and Education. That's my question, so how do you want people to remember you? Do you want people to remember you as a reformer who will reform the system, which will foster positive changes in society or only as one Prime Minister to whom it will stand in the CV and where it will only be recorded on wikipedia. Therefore, I would like to have a lot of Prime Ministers in Croatia who are indeed reformers, who are behind their words, who are behind the system of values, not leaving the children a devalued country in a valuable sense. You have received bridge support, you have advocated reforms and I would like to appeal to my colleagues from the Bridge in the interest of all children in Croatia, as they have done and prevented a fellow concerned from becoming a minister in this Croatian Parliament because of the similar work they do today and here and that they clearly send a message that reforms are important and that important standards in Croatian society are under which they cannot be crossed. Do you know what the biggest problems in the education system are? Do you know how much educational reform costs? Do you know how much it costs for educational reform not to be implemented? It costs the future, and it's completely incomprehensible to me that no man from the former task force for the implementation of curriculative reform has been introduced into this task force. It is not clear to me that there is still no experimental implementation of the curricular reform. It's not clear to me that Boris Jokic and his team are not there. It is not clear to me that simply these people are no longer needed by Croatia. You can't and Croatia can't behave in the form "history starts with me", Croatia is tired of this pattern because with this approach we can't get far. History doesn't begin with you and it doesn't even end. Every time the Croatian people made decisions in the way that they gave up their inheritance was 1918, 1941, if you want in 1945 and 1991 of that good legacy that remained in Croatian society, we made mistakes and we did bad things that we had long, long, long to correct. Therefore, I urge you to use reason here and to be when the government is concerned and our country's interests are at stake, I call on you to be a prime minister to be a reformer, not a forger. The system, what is important to say that the system starts today and here, today in the Croatian Assembly of the highest representative body of citizens of this country. Citizens expect us to correct injustices, to change the system. It's often heard here as in many other places that we can't do it, that there's nothing we can do as individuals because we don't have enough power even though we're parliamentary representatives. Well, today we can. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a society where shop workers, as I have already said, are fired because of two feta prosciuttos and small people, so small people suffer the consequences of two feta prosciuttos and many do not suffer the consequences of much more serious things. Therefore, what is true for ordinary people must especially be true for the minister. If you're cheating, you have to bear the consequences. First of all, you have a chance today to show that you are for children, that you are for the continuation of the curricula reform, that you want good for this people because Croatia is tormented, tortured, wedden country and representatives of its people are not allowed to push their heads into the sand and today they have the opportunity to show how much they love their country. I call on you to be consistent, I call on the representatives of the Bridge to be consistent in their attitude from a year ago when a similar thing was on the agenda. The choice is yours, but money, patience and the future is among all the people who live in this country, especially young people whom thousands and thousands move out of Croatia every month. We have colonies in Dublin, in Canada, we have colonies in Germany. Young people leave because they don't see the perspective, but what's most tragic is that their parents don't see the perspective and they don't see the goal they're worth fighting for. And that's why hundreds of thousands of people who came, hundreds of thousands of people who came to the square last year to protest the suspension of the curricula reform didn't come because they wanted some civil rebellion but came for that reason because they wanted at least a piece of hope for their children. And the parents came, the children didn't even come, the parents came. There may have been a thousand children there because children may not even be familiar with all aspects of which we should discuss in Croatia and make some important decisions and trade the future. Therefore, young people emigrate because they don't believe, they don't believe, above all, that something in our country can change and don't take away that ray of hope today, don't take away their hope that there's a system, that there's order in Croatia, that there's responsibility and that something in this country can change. I'm appealing to you. And I will finish my presentation as the Dirty Theatre says in its verse "Today I teach my son to walk, the first step is the most important. Winnings are defeats when the cheek is trampled." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30505	The second part of the proposal's presentation will be taken over by MP Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30506	Thank you very much. President, ladies and gentlemen! I admit Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic was right. He was right when he said that the request for the replacement of education and science minister Dr Pave Barisic was not directed against the minister personally but that there was another goal. And I admit that the essence of our demands is not at all Minister Barisic as a person, our ultimate goal is to defend, for example, Minister Barisic, Croatia as we wish and in what kind of Croatia we want to raise and educate our children. We have requested the immediate resignation of the Minister of Confirmed plagiarist and not because it is my opinion or some explicit evidence that other scientists, such as Djikic, have presented, and even that is irrelevant. I say that because I respect the institutions of this country and the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Government, and the institution of the minister. Respect for the Parliament means that we respect its decisions and one of these decisions is the appointment of a Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education. And when the board finds that it is plagiarism, my personal views and the belief of Prime Minister Plenkovic are completely irrelevant and that it is an accidental failure or only one footnote that is relevant, and that is the decision of the board because it has been appointed by the Croatian Parliament with the task of making just such decisions. Out of that respect for the institutions, the request for the replacement of Minister Barisic also arises. Politics has the task of making decisions and taking responsibility for it but has no right to ignore institutions. We want Croatia in which we respect every institution, every parliamentary representative, the Croatian Parliament, prime minister, ministers and who do not accept alternative facts instead of the truth. We have as many as four very important reasons, for Croatian reasons why Minister Barisic should step down. I have already talked about the first, and this is to preserve the integrity of democratic institutions and it is our common responsibility to prevent further breach of public confidence in democratic institutions because the consequences of this violation of the integrity of the institution can be far-reaching and very dangerous. The second question is fundamental values in education. If the first man of the education system carries the burden of plagiarism and it goes unpunished with which legitimacy and authority tomorrow people in the education system will continue to work on the education of our children. If copying and lying to the public are references to the most powerful and influential how we will encourage children to learn, analytical and critical thinking, creativity, innovation, anything that will allow them to be self-aware of successful people tomorrow. The third reason in the interest of Croatia's future is the question of standards in politics and every day, every month, every year, each government has the task of being better than the previous ones with standards and raising those standards, and we are witnessing a violated reputation of politicians and politicians in the general public and we must in practice show that certain politicians are allowed what is not citizens. We want Croatia in which we are all involved in politics so that we would like to change society for the better, that we are proud to say that politics is an honorable calling and I really want to work and live in such Croatia. The fourth reason is respecting the profession in Croatian society. How do you expect to respect politics like our profession if politics doesn't respect other professions? We have authorized the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education to represent the profession and through the committee, she has said her assessment by asking Minister Barisic to be replaced, we are asking for the respect of this particular profession because we have moved away from politics on the board. And we want Croatia in which the prime minister cannot ignore the official and authorised professional body, we want Croatia in which education and science are at all times the most important social theme and the main priority of politics because quality education and science will result in quality solutions in the economy and in every other social area, we want Croatia as a country of knowledge where the curricula reform is not delayed but continuously implemented as a never-ending process, we want Croatia in which the academic community does not agree with the calculator's policy of uncertainty, fear of politics, of an autocessor, or of any kind in which the value of higher education is not subject to the amount of money obtained from the state budget. And we want Croatia that is moving in step with time and looks forward, which instead of the commission to face the past established a commission to face the future. And yes, we want Croatia in which life-long education has not flossed but the inevitableness of today's time. We want a country where there are no gaps between education and the labour market because this gap creates inequalities in society that none of us really want. We want Croatia that guarantees the reputation of knowledge and education just as a reputation for teachers and teachers, Croatia that cultivates passion for learning, knowledge and as a starting point in creating a society in which each individual has an equal chance of success. We've come into a situation where the scientific community has extremely divided on one wheel. This should not be necessary for Croatia in 2017. And any policy will take responsibility for setting standards and based on these standards will be assessed by its citizens. The way we did it, that's how you'll do it, so tomorrow some futures will work, set standards. Don't base your policy on debauching others. It is a short-term goal that is sometimes achieved, but in the long term or in the medium term, it comes to all of us because we have lost our reputation in Croatian society. And because of such a Croatian Minister Barisic, we should vote no confidence. And neither I nor any of you should stand on your own wishes, but do your very best. And I will personally do my best to do what I know and I can, however little or much we can make Croatia better. Let's save the standards that you or we or some future ones have set. We can't go back. In this situation where we're talking today I'm going to repeat the prime minister's right it's not a question of a person. I don't even know my colleague Barisic. It's not a question at all whether it's a name or a last name, it's a question of standard, and it sees what's most important to us for the future, which is knowledge and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30507	I'd like to thank counsel Vrdoljak. The representative Josip Boris first reported on the replica of MP Bernardic's presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30508	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I will replicate the part where my colleague Bernardic spoke about how the people should remember us, our people, our members, etc. Well, I'll read at the beginning how he's remembered and loved by his party from an interview a few days ago. His colleague Ostojic says: "Bernardic runs the SDP with messages no one remembers alive, the party slips downhill, and his leadership has no weight. He doesn't offer anything." That's how they love you, how they remember you in your party. Why did I have to say that? Because we are in Croatia witnessing that there is already an ethical court, it is called the Croatian Ethics Court. However, another court was formed in the Assembly, which is a parliamentary party court. It's daily labeling, Stigmatizing, in direct TV broadcasts trying to deal with individuals. Who's this about? It's about the heroes of the left of Croatia. All in a row of moral verticals in society – Mr. Stazić, Maras, Jovanovic, Glavasevic, Mrs. Glasovac, etc. I don't want to pick it up. What is their basic mission? So find one mistake, sentence doesn't matter whether it's two days, whether it's 20 years, 10 years on the basis of which we're going to condemn you here in the assembly and then move on. Media labels are on the move, and, of course, we need to defend ourselves. If I agreed to be part of that court, then after yesterday's debate, I would. Your statements when you left the Office of the President, when you made it clear that the president for Mr. Barisic's shift, and then the President's office denied it for you could say that you were Mr. Bernardic who lied, that it was a lie. But I don't want to say it, because I think a young socialist who has to change the party he's headed and if you don't change it You could be a Bero loser very soon. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30509	... My colleagues would say next, and that's what you need to stick to the subject. [[Specially enabled.]] Do not take advantage of the context, do not take advantage of these situations, do not put words in your mouth with which I could in any way answer you and exercise some articles that would be quite deadly to you about plagiarizing and about everything else. Therefore, let our affairs be democratically resolved unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30510	Thank you. In part, I allowed you to have a replica through it because Mr. Boric, but on the other hand also your representative who presented the exhibition did not fully stick to the subject. If we're going to allow the width of the exhibit, what I'd really like to ask is not the problem of letting the width of the context describe it, but the only thing I'd ask is without really insulting inside the assembly. Representative Peja Grbin also said the Rules of Procedure had been violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30511	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I move on to my breach of the Rules of Procedure, your obligation is in accordance with Article 236 of the Rules of Procedure to determine whether Mr. Boris was injured in the same way as my colleague Ostojić pointed out, and I will now move on to the injury that I experienced. This is about Article 238. Rules of Procedure. Dear counterpart Boris has set out to list my colleagues, his colleague, Glavasevic, Stazic, Maras, that they are an ethical court party that judges others in this assembly, in Croatia. I felt deeply offended because he didn't mention me among his colleagues, so I ask you to warn your colleague, Boric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30512	It's nice to meet you, Mr. Grbin. If you are just as hurt you have the possibility to react within 24 hours. Reply to the replica, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30513	I thank the President of the Parliament. Thank you, colleague, for your observation. So I don't want to convince you, nor will I convince you of my conversation with the president. I said very clearly that we did not talk about Minister Barisic, the media conveyed it as they conveyed it. But what is quite certain is that the president acted anxiously and acted as if she cared about the implementation of the curricula reform and I believe she did. So today we're discussing it. She seemed to care and I believe she did and that's what I'm going to say. The other thing, what you mentioned yourself is watch the media, media articles, so it's famous that I'm not some fan of the media. I don't know if there's a positive newspaper comment about me, either. But as you can see, I'm still alive, I'm still healthy and I'm getting better. Therefore, regardless of what the media is writing or how it is interpreted, at the end of the message and the key things still find ways to get to the public and how to get to the public I will dare say the hearts and minds of all people living in Croatia. But that's what I'm going to get at, and I'm going to tell you, yes, so we supported you in the good things you've done. So I supported Christmas Eve's intention to take INA under Croatian control. Well, we supported you on Christmas Eve. On the other hand, the problem would be what happened later. That without any plan and no financial analysis, a plan was presented which was simply what the profession later said was unsustainable. So this isn't even about a minister of the type I don't know personally. This is all about principles and the desire to implement educational reform in Croatia, and we can only do so if those who implement it are not in any way burdened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30514	Thank you. Representative Stevo Culej spoke for a replica of the presentation of MP Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30515	Dear President, every story in our Croatian Parliament will end ours and yours and in the divisions, so I will read to you the division of the Scientific Community from the academics Vladimir Para who sent me this – "Key information in the process of passing the official verdict of the proven plagiarist Barisic by the Committee on Ethics is usually silent. That decision from the scientific field of philosophy was made by the bristle body composed of 5 scientists far from philosophy. According to the rapporteur available, the expert on fisheries has competently reported that it is a proven plagiarism in the field of philosophy in which the remaining members of the Ethics Committee agreed. Two in medicine, one in economics and one in art history. In addition, they completely ignored the fact that years earlier, the competent parent body at the University of Split rejected Barisic's indictment as unfounded." It further says: "A short method of uncanny plagiarist hunting as applied by our Committee on Ethics in the case of scientist Barisic almost every prominent scientist in our country and in the world could be accused of being a proven plagiarist. Any scientist exposed to this unknown persecution should be duly defended no matter what political option it belonged to. The language of scientific arguments should be the basis of every scientist's scientific ethics, and the political language of a proven plagiar should go where it is natural and place in the Gines Book of Records as a proven plagiarism of an unspeakable fiction." Academic Vladimir Par. There's still a lot of text here, but now there's another debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30516	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30517	Well, I know very well, but it's my professor, I'm from physics, I'm from the PMF. So, look, we're unfortunately coming up today to discuss this, while we've come into the situation that the public is divided, while we've come into a situation to talk about plagiarism, we've already lost, we've lost as a society. The kids lost. The future has lost, and that is a big problem. And I call upon you to set standards, to change it because there is nothing to bury each other on its own side and defend at this time indefensible. Let's see what we can do to make this situation change. Well, it's not the last thing in the world to reconstruct the government. Well, it's not something that's never happened before. So it's no problem and it's not a sin to admit a mistake. The problem is to insist, and that's the key.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30518	Thank you. Representative Miroslav Tudjman reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30519	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bernardić, you said in your performance: "The system begins today and here. You should play by the rules." Now I'm asking you when you're gonna start playing by the rules? When will you start playing by the rules? When will you start respecting the institutions of Croatian society and Croatian state? There are two institutions or three institutions: and the Ethics Commission of the Faculty of Philosophy in Split before 6, 7, 2011, and now calculate how many years the University of Zagreb has also given its statement that it is not plagiarism and Rectorski has confirmed it for the same reason. But these institutions obviously have no weight or importance in your thinking. And the Committee that presented this position fell apart and in incomplete composition precisely because it went to be politically instrumentalised from today's opposition before it brought its own court because it was meant to have an opinion, arguing with 9 members per 5 members. So, come on. [[The Intruder President: Time. Excuse me.]] But it wasn't at zero when it started. [[(The President's intrusion: time's up and half a minute.) I'm sorry, time's up and half a minute.)]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30520	I apologize to all the MPs. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30521	Professor Tudjman, you're a smart man and I respect you. But what I have to say is, you're coming from the same university as the minister in question, and that's not good as a message first of all. On the other hand, here in the House, we voted the people sitting on that Committee on Ethics, Education and Science. We voted them unanimously here, both SDP and HDZ, and now you're saying that these people are a problem. That's what this is about. Dochim, we've come to the point of discussing this, we've already lost as a society. Therefore, I urge you to overcome reason and to do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30522	Thank you, Agent Bernardic. Representative Zeljko Reiner responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30523	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! I will relate to what my colleague Vrdoljak said even though I speak of what my colleague Bernardic said, which is that it is not good political goals to achieve insults and defile others. I'm sorry that you used, for example, the terms of the Prime Minister's counterfeiter, that he cheated on the minister and that he was a plagiarizer. Now, speaking of the plagiarizer that has been repeating itself in this House for about two weeks now in all possible contexts and with all kinds of issues when it comes to railways, when it comes to copyright, anything keeps repeating it. Of course, the media conveys it and everyone thinks it's almost plagiarism. I would be very interested to have you specifically state what part of the article is plagiarized and what is really plagiarized, whether it is plagiarized or not, because look at the plagiarism is clearly defined in the Croatian encyclopedia as a blind copying or the acquisition of other works or literary, scientific and other works created by copying as a whole in essential or recognizable parts and the acquisition of other people's work invested in this work Croatian encyclopaedic dictionary. Which parts are plagiarized if they are because everyone thinks it's almost done and nobody says what's plagiarized because if it went into it, it would be understood that the plagiarism is gone at all, but for political purposes it's good and this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30524	Thank you. Is there an answer to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30525	So you have this explanation, maybe if you read it, it wouldn't be bad, so here's what I suggest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30526	I'd just like to ask one thing, if I don't have to personally or if the chairman doesn't have to ask if there's an answer to the replica, I'd like you to call first. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30527	Thank you very much. Mr. President! My colleague Bernardić, you said that Mr Barisic was judged by the Ethics Committee. I would ask you if you really think that this committee has been ethically acting, whether it is ethical for him to extend his authority and jurisdiction to conduct such a procedure at all, whether it is ethical to act if half the members of that committee escapes and resigns because he sees that it is actually a political affair, a political process in which the Rules of Procedure is violated, where in public the opposite of the Rules of Procedure are presented various facts and especially when he sees whether a member of that commission can be, or a committee may be, a political competition of one whose work is being challenged and that is Vlatko Silobrčić, and that is one otherwise the man we discussed yesterday, who is very ethically 25 million kunas of the Immunological Institute, has been transferred to the savings of his friend on the terms of deposited interest, and could have achieved 15 on the market, that he did it wisely and the Immunological Institute today is actually recovered from him. Is it all really ethical and do you think things aren't done right here?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30528	My colleague Bernardić, I would only ask you to lift the board, it was a warning from the chairman, so it is a practice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30529	Thank you. So see, was that ethical by the commission, so you gave up your hand for these people among other things. But you've now opened up a topic from which you'll have to get involved in whatever way you know, and if you don't change the minister, you've de facto accused the Committee of Ethics in Science and Education of acting unethically, you must replace that committee. You have to replace that committee. Today, if you don't change the minister, you've just got to replace that committee. I'm expecting that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30530	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I believe that you as a responsible politician have read the Constitution, so it is not clear to me how you sign a document requesting the impeachment of Minister Barisic based on an act that has been taken by a single body which, with such a decision, roughly injures one article of the Constitution, article 68, which speaks of guaranteed autonomy of the university. This body, which you said to the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, is appointed by this Parliament, is not disputed, but by its own decision, the ethical code came out of the framework prescribed by the Higher Education Act and declared itself a second-degree body and thus did not matter what the Ethics Committees and Committees said in Zagreb and Split. If such a logic was guided by the SDP and the HNS, then they would give the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament the full right to change the decisions of the Supreme Court by their own decision because, as the judiciary in Croatia is independent and separate from the legislative and representative body, it is identical from the Parliament independently and this guarantees Article 68. The Constitution and Croatian universities. Therefore, in this way, the SDP and the HNS rely on one opinion of an ethical commission that has extended itself the power of two laws and what the Parliament has given him, and it is an argument for you to seek, on the basis of such an opinion, the resignation and impeachment of the minister. And I'll end up with what I started to read and read is the Constitution, but if you understood by the end you wouldn't have put a signature on the motion for Minister Barisic's recall.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30532	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30533	Dear Representative Bacic, do you think I'm comfortable here today? I'm uncomfortable here, I feel uncomfortable in this situation, but I believe that's what the MPs are feeling about, that's what this is about. The Committee on Ethics, you voted on it, is the body chosen by the Croatian Parliament, this assembly, adopted reports, home of the Croatian people, as you will, it is the Committee on Ethics. Look, the situation is such that if you don't change the Minister you have to change the Committee on Ethics and it will be the last nail in the coffin, trying to reform education and science in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30534	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable colleague Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30535	Representative Bernardic, you spoke here about the importance of science, about the future of children but you are done with the word and with a statement the minister must leave. In this way you have shown that you are prepared to judge before any facts you have and the facts you have have a commission that has been elected by this House, but that is why this House is superior to this committee and is obliged to determine the truth first. It is certainly certain here that this committee has not found the truth but that it has been politically colored and I agree that we must respect the institutions of this country and the parliamentary board and the commission but we must respect both that and the truth that will become the standard. I'm the last person I was to not set standards but standards can't be set on lies. We've been exposed to lies and lynch here for 15 days. A new article has already appeared today on the fact that Minister Barisic has plagiarised his graduate work. ... [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30536	I'm asking you not to throw away.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30537	No, an article came up because you're based on newspapers and you've come to these conclusions and based on the false findings of the commission. And you fellow, I have to talk to you, you'd have to know that today can't be a doctorate without two articles that are an integral part of that doctorate being published previously. ... You won't let me talk. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30538	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30539	You've started making decisions based on lies and the truth. Don't do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30540	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30541	This commission was incompetent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30542	Comrade Dodig, thank you. Dear colleague Bernardic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30543	Thank you very much. First of all, I don't feel like a judge here, but I just feel like a voice of reason. Judge, I didn't want to be, and the judge was someone else. There was a commission you voted together here, i.e. The Committee on Ethics in Science and Education. Therefore, they were a judge. Well, I'm uncomfortable here, so I see a man for the second time in my life. So how can I tell you, so I feel uncomfortable because of the situation this Parliament has come to, in which the committee has come, to which science and education has come to Croatia, I feel uncomfortable today. How many times do I have to tell you? The commission, not ok, did not establish well but why you did not form perhaps a committee to determine the fact that the establishment is good or not good next to the highest commission Croatia has, you could have done so and it would not be the first commission. Well, we have an Ina commission, so we'll have a commission to deal with the past. When you don't know what you're going to set up a commission. Guys, let's not do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30544	Next replica representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30545	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman! I must say, in absolute terms, I agree with the presentation of my colleague Bernardic and I would only like to draw attention to him. He said if he had morals, if I had to say so, etc., that HDZ should replace the minister who admitted even that he had plagiarized, because here what's interesting here is whether the commission said it right and the minister himself did not admit it, and apologized for it. And now, what is it, Mr Bernardic that HDZ has the shame they would steal 24 million kunas from the register of state-owned companies and channel it to their company HDZ, they would put it back in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30546	I ask my colleague Pernar to have such insinuations and meals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30547	But you admitted it, sir, you admitted it. HDZ has confessed to this, your government, Ratko Cat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30548	Don't bring up such meals because you had yellow envelopes too, and that's the same confession that came from any of your ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30549	The Supreme Court saved you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30550	Thank you very much. Answer? There's no response to the replica. The next is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30551	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President! Comrade Bernardiæ, you have asked an extremely large number of questions in your presentation today, you are not one. You were talking about child education, the future of children. The question you didn't ask me I'll ask you. Do you know what that means when a child with difficulties has an assistant in class? I know you know about it because even during the time of the SDP government, there was a lot of talk about it. And do you know that Minister Barisic is the first minister on his initiative to pass a law in which it is stated that a rule can be passed on to assistants in the follow-up that we have never had before and that has been discussed for years. So for the first time, students with developmental difficulties will have helpers in teaching, but in a just way as it really is necessary and as necessary for their future and their education. So they're allowed the future, they're allowed education, they're allowed to get into life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30552	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30553	Dear mistress, we've known each other a long time, we always hug and greet when we see each other, and we agree that the society of equal opportunities is exactly the society that needs to be made possible, especially for those who have difficulty learning in the same way, later on, that they can come into a position to get a job and then start a family. And that's what I think you and I are deeply understanding and getting along. But what is said here and what I will repeat is all that is good and what is well done should be commended. But what was bad and what burdens the educational scientific system there should set standards together. And I think that's where you understand me and I believe that, intimately and in your heart, you support me. And as for the assistant in the follow-up, then I'll say that right here, the SDP MPs, we've made it possible for them to pay salaries that haven't been paid for them lately. That's not gonna say a thing that needs a big political debate. But when order is introduced into the country and these things are put on the agenda, then he should be aware of it. Therefore, here I and you have believed deeply intimately we agree, deeply believe in a society of equal opportunities in which everyone should be enabled whether they have difficulties or not because they are not people with special needs, these are people who have the same needs as all of us just have disability. To grow, to work and to develop and to get a chance. So, for all the good, thank you, for what's bad together, let's set standards and turn to the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30554	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30555	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Bernardić, you have well noticed in your opening statement that our request is only one small part related to the printing error, the fus note. They are actually the tip of the iceberg, the tip of the iceberg on which the entire system of education and science can be sucked because of the interesting lobbies you were talking about. There's a great text in my hand. It was written by Mrs Mirjana Kasapovic and called "Anatomia of a plagiarist and a network into which the plagiar has become involved". Great text that almost describes the exact same situation today. Here's just one quote. This file, what we are doing here today, only partially exposes the forms of plagiarization of conflicts of interest, monopoly, nepotism and clienteleism in one segment of the Croatian academic scientific community that create the perfect framework for the development, the emergence of intellectual corruption. Although at the heart of a plagiarist scandal, the minister is not his only or most important actor. He is a wheel in an older and wider clienteletist network, a segmental academic octopus that feeds on unconscious scientific and irresponsible teaching work, illegal and uncommon acquisition of academic titles, honours, awards, benefits, and directly and indirectly includes a number of other state and private institutions from Croatia. And the best example is that Mr. Minister has not yet been able to send administrative surveillance due to an illegal and non-static decision destroying Croatian studies. And by the way, dear colleagues, there's no university anatomy related to science institutes. So, the Committee on Ethics, the science in higher education absolutely without any encroachment in university autonomy, discusses the work in 70% of Mr Barisic's time at a scientific institute that is not part of the university.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30556	Replication response, dear colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30557	So, fellow Jovanovic, you have opened each other here in my opinion an extremely important topic in science, a high school system, and that is whether Croatia can be satisfied with the position means high school system, the position of science. Can she be satisfied with the location of Zagreb today as well as many other universities? The answer is no. And we must do everything as a society to reform science, scientific institutions in Croatia, if you want the university to make those who are the best and most competitive, dictate standards and do whatever it takes to make Croatia and Croatian universities fit in the society of the developed. If one university is not unfortunately in the company of a thousand, then it's a very clear message that simply people shouldn't come here. So we want students from other countries. And we have to do everything to reform this system sometimes with measures that may not be popular to talk about in public, which you may have tried to implement yourself and have encountered certain obstacles, decisions by senior state bodies even the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And with these measures to try to do everything we need to do right now at the Zagreb University, but also in every other Zagreb university, I will dare say hope for all people who come there to study. And that is why it is extremely important for this system of science to be completely unburdened. And what we're discussing today is a great burden for any future reform of that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30558	Next replica, distinguished counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bernardic, I want to say two things in the replica. First of all, I want to add a little bit of your exposure because colleagues on the right hand side of the assembly are very often and very fond of each other, and they have proven many times alternative facts. And I just want to warn you that it is no longer said here that the University of Zagreb decided on the Barisic case because it did not. Former Rector Beliš himself denied the current rector and said that the University of Zagreb had never decided on the Barisic case because it was not competent for him. That's the first thing. It's another thing. My colleague Bernardic, I would ask you, would you argue in this tone in this House if, for example, the Minister of Finance were not accused, but caught stealing or embezzling money, that the Minister of Defence is a high treason, that the Minister of Justice is a perjurer, that the Minister of Construction is the one who is building illegally or has illegal buildings? Would you argue in a tone like this? If we're talking about plagiarizing, plagiarizing is a mortal sin in the sciences of fellow colleagues and fellow mortal sin. There's nothing worse than that, and that's why I have to ask myself rhetorically, how a person who is a plagiarist can be a role model to our scientists, what kind of message we send to young people, etc. All of this reminds me, in fact, of the statement by a Mr. Sokol, who, at the time, defended some actors in Croatian politics that money is not property. That's what it comes down to. Or defenses where the associations we're discussing now are headed, and then they're sending out support memos. Or when the dean of the university of decree asks students and professors to send support to the minister. Is that the Croatia we want? Is this an open, free Croatia, Croatia where you can express opinions that are not always at the will of what is said and Croatia in which science is above all?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30560	Thank you. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30561	Well, thank you for this replica. You probably meant your colleagues on the left, on my left side of the assembly. Of course, it has nothing to do with any archive opening. But it has something to do with this debate you started, and it's about standard. Croatian society has changed over the past 25 years. We fought for independence. We fought for NATO. We have fought for the European Union. We've entered NATO. We have entered the European Union and we no longer have any other goals. We don't have a national development plan. We have no vision of Croatia in the 21st century. We have no agreement or consensus on key national issues. That, and that conversation, I have called upon the representatives of the ruling ones. I didn't get the answer. We don't have a plan where and how. But what we have in the last 25 years is a higher standard and a higher criterion for certain things. It is impossible to do things in Croatia that could have been done 10 or 20 or 30 years ago. And Croatian society, I hope it evalouirated. And we will today right through this debate and through the vote to show if it really is. Therefore, I invite you to raise standards in Croatia. Let's not put them down, especially if we don't go back to the way we were.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30562	The last replica to be given to counterpart Bernardic is distinguished counterpart Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30563	A colleague, Bernardic, is primarily a question of credibility, and this is no longer the credibility of Minister Barisic, because he lost his credibility the moment he failed to resign, and the plagiarism was discovered. Not even Prime Minister Plenkovic, because he lost his credibility when he didn't replace him. You know, when Prime Minister Oreshkovic appointed Mr. Hasanbegovic as minister, I warned him then don't do that or you'll put that disgraceful Ustasha hat on your head. He wouldn't listen to me. Oreskovic is not prime minister today, Hasanbegovic is not minister. What's this about? About the same thing. counterpart Bernardic, if Prime Minister Barisic is not relieved, Barisic's sin falls on his head and it will take a long time. He'll be a stone around your neck for the entire term. There will be no day to mention that you are protecting the plagiarizer and plagiarists. And there's probably not gonna be a day when that paper won't write to you. But this is about the credibility of our MPs who will vote on this. We'll probably propose an individual vote. First of all, you've already said once that you'll be correct to HDZ. You've already stopped the HDZ from setting up one plagiarizer for the minister. This is about your credibility, what you say every day here in Parliament that you're a bridge, that you're not just a political party like others, that you're here to solidify your morale, to fix your policy. This will be about the credibility of each of you by name and last name whether you will protect plagiarizers and plagiarists or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30564	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30565	Thank you, fellow Stazic. This is all you said when you warned on time about certain problems is something that the system in our country should function. And I see this message of yours and ours together as no rebuke, but I see just as an opportunity for this government to be better and more successful, an opportunity for the Prime Minister to be more successful, an opportunity for Mr. Minister not to be burdened and relieved. And with a feather move, you can break this agony and make it easier for the country to be better, to set more standards, to make it easier for yourself, but make it easier for me and our fellow minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30566	Now we move on to the replicas of the esteemed colleague Vrdoljak. First responds representative Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30567	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'd like to replicate an esteemed colleague of Vrdoljak with one hypothesis or hypothetical question. Let's assume that at this point the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Davor Bernardić, suppose Mr Ivan Vrdoljak is the Minister of Science and Education, assume that the President of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Anka Mrak Taritaš is speaking daily about the national consensus on certain matters, as he speaks about the standards of certain things, as he speaks about the future of Croatian youth or the necessity of consensus on the education system, around Croatia as it will look in 20 years. Suppose Prime Minister Davor Bernardic daily invites the people to unity, invites the nation to unity, invites political parties to consensus on these particulars, so not all but on these certain things, which may be the most important thing or the most important resort is education and science. I ask you, Mr. Vrdoljak, that you, the minister who caused the division, were guilty or not guilty because the question of plagiarism or plagiarism is no longer asked. The Croatian public is divided, the political parties are divided, the academic community is divided, all divided, would you be a gentleman and what you would do if the entire Croatian Parliament and the entire Croatian public were broken around you and about your possible plagiarism or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30568	My colleague, Vrdoljak, I ask you to raise the board next time because there are rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30569	No, it was such a hypothetical question that I had to concentrate on my colleague, so I ignored the fact. Thank you for understanding. This hypothetical question would be very simple answers, but you should put it in some time frame and be honest that all this was happening, I don't know the fifth or '95. It's a questionnaire, then we had some other topics. Croatia was different, we had different priorities. If this government happens to set standards that are higher than they have taken over then there is no one who can allow in the future to answer this question negatively. Not me, not any other one, any power-building we make here is setting the standard and most easily answered, that I would resign. But that's not the answer. The answer is that none of us are perfect. If we were perfect, we wouldn't have lost the election, but Croatia was better when we left than what we took over. Both HDZ and MOST's duty to make Croatia better than they took over. One way is the new standards that tomorrow there is no one who will be able to answer the public, to the press, to the expert public to take a step back and that is why it is a clear answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30570	I kind of figured it out in the spirit of Royce, who's bailing, pitting, and today he can't. Next replica, distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30571	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vrdoljak. In your presentation several times you mentioned such an important message of setting high standards. On today, nine years ago, a German minister of education resigned. She resigned because she was proven to be plagiarizing parts of her doctoral work. Nine years later, Croatia faces similar temptation, Germany decided that day by leaving the minister, and not by her shift in some body, it decided to send a message to its country, a message for the future. We're also sending certain messages today, and I dare say even historical messages for the future. Whether to defeat networks of interesting lobbys, even possible blackmails over strong messages of high standards and high ethical principles that we should send to children living in this country. The question today is whether this government will remain remembered as a country of knowledge or a country of deception, whether your Mr. Plenkovic's government will remain remembered as the government of the reformer or the government of the forger. If we want to guarantee this country a brighter future, children, young people, unfortunately in that case, Mr Barisic must become the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30572	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30573	We very often use examples of some Western civilizations at a time when it suits us in one way or another in various policies, but these valuables and respecting the dignity and ministerial functions of both the government and the Parliament and the board, I don't think they should be at any point. And if there's been a situation as my colleague Beljak said in the scientific community, which is a big problem, then it has to be stopped somehow, someone has to be responsible for why the division happened. Can a parliamentary representative do that here, can a citizen or a rector do that? And I personally want to completely separate scientific responsibility from political responsibility. And some of our members of the HNS are involved in some educational strategy implementation committees and that I said great, we're going to make a contribution to everything we know and can, we're going to make our contribution to the profession. Political responsibility and credibility is a completely different matter. It is a message, elevacy and institutions, governments, parliament, the Committee on Ethics or any other political body. Therefore, alternative facts must not and will not be an answer to this division situation in the scientific community. I don't see a solution except for the minister's resignation. I don't see a solution to calm it down, to homogenize it as both the Prime Minister and the Government of the Most and HDZ said, let's put down the ball and face the future. If we started in the first two months, we caused in a very important social segment such a division, so does that name matter that much? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30574	The next replica is distinguished counterpart Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Vrdoljak, to me as well as colleague Glasovac, there is much left in memory of the part of your presentation in which you spoke about the message we sent. The message our prime minister sent in the campaign was a message of credibility. So the ability to look people in the eye and how it can be done when you're consistent. It was about high standards. So, in the situation in which we are sitting here, which we will have to decide tomorrow or when the conditions under the allegations of trust are acquired, Minister Barisic. The smaller problem is the fact that Minister Barisic has plagiarised. So that's the problem for his academic career, for us here is the problem that after that he decided to be a burden to this government and to all of us here. Now, that's a political question, and that's what we here have to decide. Looking people in the eye. I don't know if they're still at the gallery, but here were the beginning of this debate from Nasic High School and they were watching here and Minister Barisic and Prime Minister and all of us here. I watched if both the prime minister and the minister looked into their eyes. And you know what? I didn't see it. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30576	Thank you. The answer to the line, Ivan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30577	I checked in on time. So, two sentences. We have made our decisions and made them at this moment and in this case and in this affair or whatever they call it. Now, the rulings need to make their decisions and for those decisions take responsibility. And set a standard, a scale aware that we won't keep quiet like we didn't shut up the opposition when we did, we made our own decisions, and we used to be nervous, sometimes you get the feeling that for one reason or another they're irrationally calling you, you don't feel good about anything. But we made our own decisions, we took that risk. And in this case, making a decision means setting a value. We made our decision with a request. People you will make your decision and suffer all consequences for the Croatian public based on that decision. The facts are very simple, so were we.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30578	Thank you. And there goes the replica of the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30579	Thank you very much. Mr. Vrdoljak, in your debate, you mentioned that Croatia must be better tomorrow than Croatia was yesterday, to build, to work on standards, that standards are growing every day. What was crucial in the 1990s, 1990s, and fifths, two thousandths is not, or is, even more important to make the future better than it was back then. If we were in the '90s thinking about how to defend the country, if we were '95. to think about how to reintegrate the remaining territory, if we've thought about how to take the country out of isolation in 2013, if we've thought about entering the EU in 2013, today we need to think about sending a message about how we're going to live and what country we're going to live in the coming years. In Croatia, plagiarisation and corruption will not stop in the coming years. There will also be those who will want to steal and those who will plagiarize other people's works. But I am convinced that everyone here in this assembly, that you also want Croatia in which the institutions will not tolerate it, in which we will not shake hands and say that we have won the elections, we can do whatever we want. In which we will not shake our hand and find 10 or 20 people who are actively connected, who will defend us and say that not all are identical opinions and therefore that man must remain. We wish to have Croatia in which things that are not allowed will be sanctioned, in which we will send a message to young people what country they will live in and how they will gain not only their professional education, but also a way to earn their family and live in Croatia. We want better Croatia and therefore those who are calling for cases from a few years ago to wash their conscience and cover Minister Barisic They're wrong and they'll hear it in the debate. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30580	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30581	I will use this response to the replica to be the key issue, and that is how we will all contribute to the return of respect for politics and political functions. Every single one of us needs to make a move, be some kind of picture in some mosaic. But living in a country with a severed reputation for politics is not easy and it is very dangerous. And if we think about each and every one of our own parties, my political systems, local, regional, national policies about how the public will react to some of our speeches, then today I choose some words, because I don't want to call Minister Pavo Barisic on a personal level and get a point because I insulted him, panicked. I really don't know about his scientific papers. It's really my problem. We're here all the time because I don't like to collect, and I think we should all worry about that debauchery point. It's not muddying. This isn't a question. This is a valuable question, a question of standards and division in the scientific community. What's the solution in three months? How, will it continue to be an atmosphere of ours and yours in the scientific community or will it try to be homogenized? With what man, what strategy, what authority? Give us that offer so we can work together. And I will repeat we are involved in some processes with satisfaction and we bear responsibility and that and we will not share rectorial choirs or any other commission to realise the Strategy of Science and Education because we need it, we need unity in these bodies. But here in Parliament we don't need unity, here we need standards and values. And that's why this situation where you keep an eye on the dignity of every politician is very sensitive at the moment when one whole sector is shared in society, which is the most important, science and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30582	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to a discussion of the government's representatives. Does the Prime Minister want to further explain the obvious? Here you go. Prime Minister Andraj Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30583	Thank you, Vice President Jandrokovic. Appreciated MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected Minister Barisic. It's a pleasure to say a few. You've already called? Did I do something wrong? What am I going to finish now? What are you going to tell me? You've seen how it goes apart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30584	The Prime Minister already has one who's called before, and you haven't even seen him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30585	It's all good, it's all democracy. Here's the first thing I'd like to thank everyone for today's debate. I think we all agree that science and education are the cornerstones of the future of Croatian society, we want to reach a consensus on it, we want pluralism on it, we want the participation of all those who can contribute. Minister Barisic and I have also appointed a new Expert Commission for the Implementation of the Strategy. As you know, it's drawn up in a pluralistic way, and it has your unsuspecting Minister of Science, and it has your former Minister of Science, a representative of our fellow minorities, our colleague from MOST, people from the academic community. So here is Minister Barisic as the minister in charge and I want to send a signal that it is important that we have a social consensus exactly the way you say it about this capital issue of the Croatian future. So much for wanting us not to have a dialogue or that we don't want everyone to contribute to the topic that determines Croatia's future. Second, the debate itself. It seems to me that in 2012 the same debate was at the time about the Minister of Science and Education, so the SDP's argument on the part of the government about Minister Jovanovic was that it was early already to go to a trust debate, that it wasn't enough to assess his work, here I think now this story is repeating again, and here's the argument is quite different. But what's important, which is that I listened to both my colleague Bernardić and my colleague Vrdoljak, and it's interesting, but not in one single sentence did you talk about the scale of the problem, not one, not one, not the other. So you're the promoters, you've sent a request to the Croatian government to vote for mistrust, but you haven't mentioned either word of which is the problem, not a single word. And not even any of you who later in this exercise or playcasing merely the replica and the answers repeated the same thesis, glued the labels, called me a plagiarist, I must admit that you've obviously had some kind of training... in the last few days, but good and that's the same democracy. Here, so it's important that the public knows, this is an article of Psycholophy and Democracy “Does Globalization Threaten Democracy”, I don't know if you read it. It seems to me that without the help of Professor Djikic, who is obviously an externalized advisor to you through the Atlantic if he has time to read in detail the discipline he deals with, then send her to the public, so you put her in your request and build your arguments on it. It's about your effort as an opposition to enter the substance, and the substance is on the page, now I'm going to tell you exactly what 301, the journal on Synthesis Philosophilic, footnote number 4, lacks reference to the source. That's why the public needs to know. This whole debate, this whole story, this whole thing that we've been talking about for weeks, it's been on page 301 of the 2008 magazine on this footnote right here. You who write papers know that you usually put someone else's arguments in footnote to support the arguments that you make yourself, and that reference is missing. Right, a failure, a mistake. Did the plagiarism not put reference here on page 301 at the end of footnote number 4, is that the reason for the minister's resignation? Is this why you spend all your energy to label the man who correctly your work in the scientific career, who has accepted me would say one important portfolio in the government, perhaps more important than everyone else, to help with all of his knowledge, energy, meeting, politeness, calmness to the development of Croatian science and education, because of the reference in footnote. The 2008 case, the minister rectified the case in 2009. You're inaccessible when you say you didn't get a commission on that. They are also the University of Split and the University of Zagreb, yes. ... Yeah, here, give me a copy now. I'll show you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's go to the metrics. Excuse me, colleague. I've been listening. You've made the Minister a plagiarist and read... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Ad hoc Ethics Commission of the University of Zagreb says the first sentence of the opinion "The Committee considers that the items delivered are not plagiarised or its appearances". You want my fellow Voter to give you, read it. So it's very important to know what we're talking about. The public needs to know what we're talking about, it's always the most important thing. That's what they taught me when I started working on my fellow senior diplomacy. What's most important is that we know what the subject of the meeting is. That's terribly important, the public needs to know. So far, we all know page 301. footnote number 4. the missing reference which would have been approximately as in the later editions of the article that the author had fixed, and that was how many years ago? Seven years before he was a minister. Seven years, seven years before he was a minister. The Commission decided in 2011 and 12. So, four years before he was a minister. And now Mr. Barisic apparently as a big surprise to a part of the academic community quite politically engaged becomes Minister 2016. So what do we do now? Let's quickly engage the Ethics Committee in the Croatian Assembly whose head is one academic, respected man, I have nothing against him. But there he is, right now, the very first thing he has to do right now is discuss something that some would call a real judicate. Is that right? Are those facts? They did. If Mr. Barisic hadn't been a minister, what do you think that Ethics Commission would have put that point on the agenda? Let's take a realistic look at that story. Well, I don't think so. And why did it put it on? Well, because it has what's called a political agenda, it has a purpose. The aim is to discredit the minister because of the reference in footnote number 4 of the review article, not the original scientific article, but the review article. And now as a society, as a media, we've been discussing this for weeks, rather than discussing what would be the key tasks of science, education, raising our children. That's what this is about, so that's the point. And the public needs to know that. It's that basic key. And I'm sorry you didn't get better prepared for this story, I'm really sorry. I'm sorry about that. I am sorry that the minister has the inconvenience that he must have every day faced with this as you fellow Stazic announced every day of this term, one of you will put a label on him. It's not good to put labels on people especially because of these literally small things. I said the other day, the judge doesn't care, don't worry, don't waste time on it. You and I both, and so is the minister. We're here with a mission. This isn't a mission for that. This is disproportionate and it is extremely disproportionate and it is regrettable that of all the topics, on which we are completely open to consensus. Well, we can't be more open if your minister and your unsuspecting minister are members of my committee. Your former Prime Minister didn't ask me anything about who would be in his commission. And I didn't notice he asked the opposition back then. And no one said anything. Now the gentleman who led that commission after I received him, sat with him, talked to him, explained the day after he said here I am, no reform. Well, it's not like that, it's not really fair. And that is why it seems to me that it would be good to bring this whole story down to the real frameworks of the legal frameworks, institutional frameworks, for counterpart Barisic to have the chance to try to get into the file as he should, and that is unburdened by having to react to something every day, and in principle it all comes down to one single footnote. And it's not right and it's not fair. I think Croatia deserves better, that Croatia deserves more. We, as Government and parliamentary majority, will try to deal with the important ones, and so every day I will put important topics into public space, and what is irrelevant, sub-sequential, secondary, effectively remain in the references of footnote. That's the key. Minister Barisic, please say a few words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30586	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, distinguished MPs and MPs. This is how familiar I am with the fact that I have studied speeches in this Croatian Assembly for some 19 centuries somewhere since the time of Mažuranić and Starčević were not so violent and rude attacks, or few of them have been continuous for over a hundred days as I have experienced it since the first day here in this Assembly Hall. It seems to me that it has become a method of fighting one part of the opposition, of attacks, of slandering ad-hompic arguments, not of political programme, not of ideas, not of debate ad rem. But when the idea and the program doesn't have the only method left. Who else remembers all those arguments that were repeated here on the first day of the appointment? I remember them very well because I got them a phonogram. Falsely spoken of me in this House of Highs has proved to be certain of transparent structures. That is why many of them soon disappeared from public use, although their dust would be rolling for a long time and falling to media ground. However, since it is impossible to bring in all the prosecutors who have spread slanders and blasphemed against me over the past months so as to disprove them, these are the words that Socrates says in his defense, to quote him, "Therefore I have nothing left but to defend myself as if I were fighting the haystacks and refuting the charges." And the Prime Minister spoke of the metrics, I won't repeat, I can supplement the arguments if necessary in detailed matters. So I'm just going to say about the guilt in the plagiarism charge that she's gone because there's no act at all. A well-known publicist and professor of political science, Dr. Inoslav Besker, confirmed that in this case there was no talk of plagiarism in terms of taking in someone else's work, finding out the results of work or original ideas, there is no such thing. But what you have left to say is a much more important issue in this context because it is about the Croatian Assembly, how and what happened in the conduct of the Supreme Assembly Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. Professor of Moral Theology and President of the World Association for Clinical Bioethics Dr. Luka Tomašević warned, quoting his words "The naked, unethical conduct of the board and his former president of the Academy of Silobrčić" and further quoted "overcoming all ethical biases that the national history of the academic community has recorded in these slightly more than a quarter of a century of Croatian independence", so the academic community is judging and scientific and asking questions here in front of this assembly, and who oversees the legality of the work and ethics of this same committee. Whose committee is this? What has been done to avoid estrangement and establish legal certainty? So, all those ugliness and libels didn't distract me in the work in my vault.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30587	Minister, I'm sorry, but the time is up, so please bring it to an end. Thank you. So we have 14 replicas to expose the Prime Minister and five replicas to the presentation of Minister Barisic, so here we go. The first is a replica of a esteemed colleague, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30588	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister. The first thing that came to me in your debate was that you called Professor Ivan Djikić an opposition associate, an external associate of the opposition who made certain documents. I can tell you here that I would be very pleased if the opposition had even more such associates, and I would be even more pleased if the government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia had such associates and if you used them more. Mr. Ivan Djikic wrote you a letter in which he elaborated and asked you to cut off this situation so that the politicization would not continue. So if you'd done it a month ago, it wouldn't have happened, not everyone here would have felt uncomfortable. And on that side would spare both Croatia and your government and you personally and opposition to the unpleasant situation, that's what Mr. Ivan Đikić, the world scientist asked you for, without doing so hopefully not underestimating him so much of the opposition's speech. I think it came from his heart and his scientific work that he's been doing so far. Since you have shown material and have called for certain opinions, you have obviously not read our proposal. In this proposal, you could read not only this one case which was handled by the Committee on Ethics but also an analysis by Mr. Ivica Djikić of 17 January, which is called "Plagikat Analysis" where nine concrete cases are mentioned. Since you haven't read it I'll tell you here during the session you have time, analyze, maybe by the end of the session you'll be something I'd say so I won't say smarter, but you'll sublime certain things and maybe you'll change your mind at this point. Here I am asking you to read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30589	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30590	So I appreciate Professor Djikic very much, it wasn't a criticism to him, though. He has every right like any other citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and he acts to me as a citizen of the world because he doctored it seems to me in Germany, in America because he was one time first and in Germany, although he is not controversial. I spoke to him on the phone, the truth was, in an interview once, that I offered him to be a counselor for not telling. However, why didn't you analyze the text but have to call upon it in a formal request from the government? How come none of you sat down and read a little of that text? That was the point, no. That was the point. I've read very closely everything you've sent us and what the government has unanimously, I repeat, all 20 ministers unanimously adopted and responded. So I prepared myself for this debate, consulted with the minister, we went through this case very closely, one issue, another issue, a whole series of questions to the public, and we looked at all of it thoroughly, and everything essentially came down to what I told you in the presentation. And that's why it seems to me that the real question is whether it's the key to this debate or whether it's the key to something else? That's the point of fellow Maras, the point is whether it's the key or something else is the key. You haven't convinced me with your exposure or the president of your party that that's the point, the point is something else. It's a political game, it's about stability, not government stability, problems in the coalition, the functioning of the ministries, the functioning of the government, that's the point, and I understand that, and that's okay. It's part of the political game, and as this game was said, we're going to play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30591	Thank you. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30592	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I would like to say that I listened with caution to the presentation of Prime Minister Plenkovic and during his presentation he tried to draw us to the conclusion that the copying was not to a large extent, that there was no small fide, but that it was an unintentional mistake. I think that's how other colleagues figured it out. But I think the prime minister here made one logical mistake, and now I'm going to explain why. You were going to say, if he's not guilty of plagiarizing to a large extent, he shouldn't resign. That's the conclusion that you essentially suggested to the public. It was a mistake. And by doing so, you indirectly wanted to draw them to another conclusion. If he's guilty of plagiarizing to a large extent, he should resign. It means that by any chance Minister Barisic was essentially a mistake, that it was really a classic plagiarism, then you wouldn't have stood behind him. However, it is a false argument that you wanted to deceive the Croatian public. Because you are not only protecting Minister Barisic. We have in place a vice president of the Parliament who overwritten 80% of the degree's work. So it's compiled. So this isn't about how I'm going to say it about a random mistake, a stroke. It's about let's say a little fide copying. And you stand equally behind Minister Barisic and behind the Vice-President of the Parliament. So your way of finding out that you tried to suggest to the public is actually dishonest. You protect every plagiarizer and every copyist, whether it's scientific or not. work or graduate if it comes from the HDZ ranks. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30593	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30594	Okay, so you knew in the first second that I was going to say it. Is that right? Is that right? You raised your hand like you were the one on formula one who was waving a flag when it ended. My colleague Pernar, therefore, is not what is burdened Minister Barisic plagiarism. It's a failure, a failure he saw himself and corrected himself before anyone in the academic community raised that question in front of any forum, and it's good that these issues are resolved on those bodies for which it matters, which are universities. It's the key, and I'm telling you that again. This isn't plagiarism. I didn't say that in any way. This is about failure, technical failure on page 301 and point. That's the point. I'm not the one who leads you to the conclusion, you're making your own conclusions. I just want in this debate that's full of labels, pamphlets, amalgams of repeating one and the same formulations. What do they have in mind? They aim precisely at having everyone, but absolutely all in one unequivocal way in their ear, in their logic hear, accept that, yes, yes. It's about plagiarism and falsification. No, that's not exactly what I'm talking about. The point of this debate is to say that it's not like that and to turn to the scale of things, to look at exactly what it's about and explain it. That's the point. How will you conclude? That's your thing. I'm not getting into that. How will you raise your hand is also your thing. But we're having this debate for the public, and the public needs to know it's a mistake, not a plagiarism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30595	Thank you. Third replica, distinguished colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30596	... They steal my ideas, but I'm sorry they don't have their own, said the great Nikola Tesla. [[Specially enabled.]] He lit up the world, and we Croats blew his monument in Gospić. It is renovated, it stands in the museum but until today it is not returned to the place where it stood because in Gospić it is in the power of HDZ. And this is an example of Croatia's attitude towards science and scientists. You're Mr. President, Mr. Plenkovic, you're the president of HDZ and Prime Minister. You can order that monument back to Gospić tomorrow. But you don't protect the memory of those who have their ideas, those who respect the whole world. You protect those who took someone else's text as their own and forgot in footnote that it was someone else's text. So what is it, a plagiarizer? You appoint a man who has plagiarized graduate work as Vice President of the Parliament. You're disgusted by Nikola Tesla, that's your attitude to science. And it'll be a rock around your neck and I've told you all the days of your term. I'll tell you that again and again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30597	Thank you. The answer to the replica or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30598	Could anyone other than my fellow Stazic have concluded that I was disgusted by Nikola Tesla? How did you end up with a fellow Stazic? So you're the one in this debate who concluded that? Great! Congratulations! I really congratulate you, I didn't expect to end up on this. But good. In fact, I think these replicas of yours are really plastically showing what this debate is all about. All right, Parliament's a kind of stage. She's a mirror of political debates, exchanges of arguments and ideas, and everyone uses them, sometimes a little bit and usurps them, sometimes exploits them in their own way, and this is exactly the moment. So the public needs to know this is a chance for the opposition that lost the election, she didn't count on losing the election. We give the people who were your ministers and who were supposed to be ministers to participate with their knowledge, engagement, experience in carrying out educational reform, so that's the message that I, as Prime Minister, send to you and the SDP and the HNS. You return it in a way that Minister Barisic should deal with the topic 24 hours a day that every day, and you have promised 3.5 years to do so, you return the debate to this. All right, but everybody needs to know that. So we all need to know what this is about and why this is all about. And the amalgams of your arguments to introduce here and Nikola Tesla and the monument into the debate, which I now attribute to a high degree of creativity and a desire for this debate to get a new dimension to move away from the topic as far away as possible, but the public sees it. You can't deny it. that the public doesn't see it. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] And those who logically conclude well will conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30599	The fourth replica of the distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30600	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Plenkovic, in your presentation, you asked a rhetorical question about the plagiarism of the minister's resignation, then in your reply, you wrote this part of the plagiarization of the text to technical errors or footnotes, and you made it clear once again that you are standing firmly not only behind your minister but also behind your friend Mr Pava Barisic. But okay. if, in your opinion, this case is supposed to be plagiarism, and technically it is not the reason for the minister to resign, so here I will try to expose a few things that I think they say a lot about the way Mr Barisic is running the ministry in these 100 and a few days, which are the reasons why he can no longer be a minister. Mr. Minister protected Secretary of State Gluncic when he insulted the children of national minorities and developmental difficulties by declaring them guilty of poor results at the PISA research of another state for cheating on exams. Mr Barisic has granted public funds to his scientific journals and his own and thus placed private interest above the public interest. He also made the ministry act on the fact that the crisis at the Faculty of Philosophy is still deepening and that today the Faculty of Philosophy and its bodies are not functioning. Through State Secretary Glunčić, he pressured the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, etc., etc. One of the former ministers, Mr. Primorac, had enough courage and guts, although I do not sympathise with Mr. Barisic for double charging the same travel order to the shift, and you are doing more than Five serious reasons still stand behind your minister. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] I'm asking you if you're the prime minister of some European countries, would you be guided by such low standards and criteria?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30601	My fellow voters so I'm asking you if everyone's sticking to the line to hold on to you, I think it's still correct for all of us who are holding on to the line. Prime Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30602	My colleague Mesic, here's my colleague, Djujic, who protected me, I beg you. Okay. Here's a thank you to my fellow Voter. I think that as these replicas go along that everything together will be much clearer, so maybe this failure of technical error is not so important, it is important that Minister Barisic now has the responsibility to deal with the resources of science and education. It seems to me that we've come to some stage of the opposition's high-level irritation with the minister that whatever he's doing is not going to be well. ... Just to resign, then we'd be happy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Everyone in Croatia would be happy. ... Most of them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Here's all the probes who'd be happy. Ministers, in fact, you decide on the index of happiness. Neither Dotric would be better at his scientific activities than you do. Okay. What's important from all these arguments, here's the minister says that all the commissions that decided on the allocation of funds, the commissions appointed by his predecessors. So he didn't name new committees. Did he object to the secretary of state? It is. Yes, he objected, you read the government's reply, the secretary of state apologized. I also think it's a very thoughtless statement, an inappropriate statement, a statement that's on the air today, a man who didn't think clearly well enough about what he was saying. I'm sorry about that, he noticed it himself, he pulled that statement about it you discussed on the board. I think that board accepted that apology. At such an early stage of behavior, we've assessed that we should give him a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30603	Thank you. Fifth Replicated colleague Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30604	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, you were talking about what plagiarism is, here's what I'm going to quote one of the definitions. "Plagijat is a literary, scientific or other work created by prescription as a whole in essential or recognizable parts and by the acquisition of other people's work invested in this work. The plagiarizer who did or did plagiarism, the man who adopted other people's ideas, who prescribes other people's works and today Mr Barisic taught us lessons about ideas. He obviously had no idea, so he prescribed a complete concept, not just a footnote. You've challenged the Ethics Committee again here today. I must repeat to you that the Ethics Committee is working in an assembly that allows it to make all decisions in full and that everything regarding the work of Mr Barisic, since 70% of its time at the Institute is in line with university autonomy. A new story appeared today, so I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, if you are aware that an evaluation procedure has been initiated whether the doctoral dissertation in 80% of your work is made up of previously published works and therefore represents a car plagiarism that the University of Augsburg does not allow and whether this will be the reason when you will finally replace the minister who is causing great damage and shame to this government. Secondly, I ask you and Mr. Barisic, since you have so carefully analyzed his works, is the problem only in one footnote, that is, did he, apart from that footnote and later correct some parts of his work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30605	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30606	Here you have also referred to this letter that came out today, but you have not even mentioned the Minister's statement on the subject. I'm talking about a doctorate. And that's what I talked to the minister who introduced me to the University of Augsburg's promotional rules about how and how his doctoral dissertation was done. In fact, at some universities and it encourages the doctorate to publish parts of their work in other magazines, and they have rules that make it possible for the doctoral dissertation to be made and the work already published to be included in the doctorate. Therefore, the statement that the minister seemed to have made to me this morning or yesterday has nothing to add to her, except that he responded very thoroughly to all the references from the letter, from the application sent by two scientists to the University of Augsburg. Point. ... [[Invader Jovanovic, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30607	Thank you very much. Next replica of my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Boric, Tudjman, Bačić, Bosnjakovic, Reiner, Culej, Dodig, Lukačić and this list of 27 representatives who have called for debate. I am strikingly missing the representatives of a club, strikingly. The political context of the lack, the striking lack of a representative of the second largest club of the ruling majority shows that in a month you have failed to convince them what you are telling us. Can you explain the political context to me? Yes, four ministers or five in the government voted unanimously. And that no MP would then report to our opening statement and replicate, so no one would report to the club and no one would report in an individual debate. They still have an hour, though. That's possible, so maybe you can convince them. And I'm glad you started practicing walking around the hall to the MPs while you were already avoiding entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30609	Is there a need for a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30610	I didn't hear you last. You've come down a little too fast. What if I started practicing walking when I didn't what?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30611	That you got a round of applause and started practicing walking when you avoided getting in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30612	And creative as ever, my Brachanin. Bravo! Congratulations! That's good. So, as far as the political context is concerned, the political context is visible, the political context is visible. Look for some weak spot, try everything and find page 301 that's your political context. As for my colleagues from MOST, I am pleased that the ministers unanimously decided at the Government when we adopted an answer to your initiative to vote for non-trust when and in any way anyone on this topic will perform in the Croatian Parliament, it is not up to you or me to decide, and I do not intend to interfere or comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30613	The next replica is distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30614	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you spoke about the metrics in your presentation, but you didn't touch that measure at all. Because the debate on whether Minister Barisic is a plagiarizer or not is a debate that cannot be in the media or that debate can be led by all those who are not members of the Ethics Commission. It is indisputable that in the case of a possible plagiarist in the state office, if it is not entered into in the law that neither the Parliament nor the media nor Radman nor Đikic make a decision to presently appear both Einstein and Nikola Tesla. So that decision can only be made by the Ethics Commission because it has the mandate of this Parliament, it has the mandate and your Governments because it is continuity from before. So the situation is what it is, and I want you to talk about it and talk about it. That's the measure of things. It is not a measure of whether Minister Barisic is a plagiarizer or not, the measure of the commission's decision is neither you nor I, nor the Parliament, nor the media, nor the letters of support can have their own influence. And such an attitude, your view that you do not want to change the minister is an attitude that has nothing to do with legalism, but has to do with the absurdity of any other position that this minister is acting because it is the standard of Europe, the global ethical standard that you are clearly deafening yourself to and in this is the absurdity of the situation in which Minister Barisic is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30615	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30616	Okay, I think I've made it clear to the Croatian public what the scale is and what's the point of what you're talking about. I repeat, therefore, the head of the committee is a member of a political party with a very clear goal, with very clear political intentions to destabilise the work of the minister and then indirectly the government. That party has its own agenda, it's more than clear, the elections are approaching, I think we've said everything about it. The fact that as many as four members of this committee have self-initiatedly come out of it do not want to participate in the work in the way that this was happening just under such express, urgent, urgent, fastest procedure ever tells me enough about itself. You can spin that argument all afternoon, I'll keep answering it, but I can't help thinking it's an orchestrated exercise, with clear political goals, and it's not about the metrics at all. In particular, if we respect, we cultivate university autonomy and appreciate the already adopted opinions of ethical committees or advice even two universities in the Republic of Croatia on these and other similar topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30617	Next replica, distinguished colleague Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30618	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister. So, we're here looking for arguments and I'm actually glad you did. The first taste of logical argument argument was given to you by your colleague Pernar. So you're arguing this way what the opposition here is attacking is the legitimacy of your minister, and the legitimacy is drawing him out of the idea that he's a good scientist, so it gives him legitimacy in politics. However, we say it is also our thesis that he is not, so we are attacking his legitimacy, he is not an ethical scientist, and then he cannot be an ethnic politician. We have two lines of argument, one is critics like Mr. Djikic, and that's one, but there's actually a lot of them and the other are institutions. You delegate critics in this way to say they're tied to parties, so what they're saying certainly doesn't make sense because it's part of some agenda, but you don't attack the measure of what they're saying, and you're interested in the measure. When institutions that bring their own courts, let's put it this way, you relativize them with half-truth and not truth, so on the one hand, the ad hoc commission of the University of Zagreb does not refer to Mr Barisic as here in Article 1(1). The ethical code of the same university says it contains moral principles and professional ethics of principles in which people who are employed at the University of Zagreb who are not Mr Barisic should act in their work. But we're not really talking about the metrics here because, as my colleague Mrsic said, we need to discuss exactly those institutions that you delegate. So we're going around a little bit. We do not need to discuss the metrics, and you insist on it, and those bodies and institutions and individuals who discuss the metrics are delegated to them. And you don't do it the same way that you attack them with arguments, but by trust or mistrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30619	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30620	A lot of arguments, a lot of relativization, I don't know who would be replicating you to this right now. ... Prime Minister, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear counterpart Glavasevic, so two and the Ethics Commission and the Ethics Council decided on the case at the time of Minister Barisic several years after he fixed the gap, so I fixed it before someone else initiated the procedure in front of the university bodies. He noticed it himself, he reacted to it, he self-helped it, he shouldn't have been told here you made a mistake, he fixed it himself. Is that a certain gesture? Is that a particular science move? You say he's not a good scientist. So I hope that there will be some replica to the Minister's presentation so that maybe a little more than four and a half minutes left in his original presentation says something about his scientific career, about what papers he published, where he published them, what he deals with, what topics are subject to his interest that yet few of you hear more of these easy, simplified, soundbite disqualifications to which you have brought down all your strength of criticism of the work of the Minister and the work of the Government. That's the point, that's the argument, that's not relativization, that's an analysis of your thesis. And plus, you haven't done that analysis yourself, so obviously neither is what your colleague has now handed me again, you haven't been doing but someone else has been doing, so you're looking for expert help. It's also good, you should have advisors, you should have consultants, that's good, useful occupations have their price. You carry on like that, and the minister will explain to you during the day which is his opus.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30621	Thank you very much. The ninth replica, dear colleague Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30622	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Prime Minister. First of all, I don't think it's time for a big laugh, that we shouldn't laugh at each other in our debates and try to have fun. Secondly, I don't think it's appropriate to boast to each other that we've ever prepared ourselves for a debate, because it'll turn out like we don't get ready often, so three times I've prepared for a debate and it's not something that impressed me. Third, I think it's the worst. In the statement of the Prime Minister, we heard that if a man wrote a scientist and criticized the minister that he was our outside associate... Labelling criticism is a direct order of autocensorship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who else in public will write fully open and free tomorrow without being classified as my advisor? Don't do that. It's like I'm saying that a couple wrote this because he's interested in textbooks or that your associate was a fighter who gave this opinion because he's your outsider. Well, it's not. I don't know if it is or not, I don't know, it doesn't matter to me. It's scientific credibility, it's their job. Our job didn't label them. And don't criticize the minister of any, positional, opposition, former, today's label because only with this criticism has he become my advisor. No, it's a direct order of autocensorship. It is not good for Croatian society. What you said that we didn't talk about important topics is your choice. The fact that you're banalizing the Ethics Committee's decision, and then we get the same very dangerous finding from the minister, which is ethical estrangement. And other ethical advice has credibility. These are your decisions for which you will bear responsibility for the citizens during this term, primarily Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30623	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30624	... labeled as your outside associate. [[Specially enabled.]] No, these are the rhetorical figures of colleague Vrdoljak and colleague Maras. My point was that as an opposition, you did not do your analysis, you did your analysis, but included in the request you made to the government the arguments of a scientist. That's the point. But the point is I'm asking you why didn't you do your analysis? That's the point. I have no problem with anyone writing me a letter, publishing it to the entire Croatian public, putting it on the web, commenting, expressing its position. In fact, I don't see anything controversial. I've heard from Mr. Djikic. We talked. I was aware that his letter would go public. I don't mind. So that argument refers only to the fact that you used his arguments in your request to vote the minister's trust and did not go with your own arguments. And that's where I would round up that story and that's the point. So that's the point of your efforts, not any scientist's comment. That's the goal. So again, you're trying to stick to me in your discussions so I can label someone. I don't label anyone. No, no, no. It's a big difference between you and me in this debate. I don't label. I am expressing my position and I am giving you arguments why this topic should be discussed about what is the point of the problem, and the point of the problem is the article I showed, page 301. footnote number 4 in which there was no reference.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30625	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable counterpart Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30626	... things that are actually worrying. [[Specially enabled.]] First thing analysis. So the political parties are not here to run an analysis, the analysis was made by the highest body of the Republic of Croatia to be appointed in this Parliament. It's the Committee on Ethics in Science and Education. Therefore, if you insist today on this decision, the first thing you will have to do next is replace the complete ethics committee. I'm asking you to do it. The second thing, if you'd read the explanation, it's clear to me that you don't have too much time, that this job puts you in front of certain challenges. That's completely clear to me. But if you'd read the explanation, then here you'd see a 6-page detailed explanation I'd dare say to the footnote around the metrics. Therefore, I invite you to read it. On the other hand, what I find worrying, this decision ad hoc Ethics commission that you have now shared with your colleague, the Voter. Trust is good, but control is even better. I'm glad you have confidence in your colleague and friend. But if you had read anything other than the first sentence of this ad hoc Ethics Commission, then you would have concluded that this commission has been declared completely incompetent. For he says: “If in any particular case a multiple publication is not possible, I can only determine the Commission for the appropriate component of the university. Due to the lack of knowledge of profession customs, this Committee is not able to assess whether double publication is a matter that would differ from the applicable practice in a specific area. Furthermore, regarding the issue of unethical progress, we say that such issues cannot be considered before this body. So they met, washed their hands. ‘I would not consider myself to be mixed’. So I advise you to read it before you go out. Trust is good, but control is even better. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30627	Thank you. Comrade Bernardić, thank you very much. [[Intruder Bernardić: This is the ad hoc commission.]] You can't go on. Don't be mad. [[Intruder Bernardić: I wanted to say...]] My colleague Bernardic, please, everyone finishes in five seconds after this. [[Upadica Bernardic: Croatia must not be an ad hoc country, nor is it an ad hoc country and you must not be the ad hoc prime minister.]] I'm begging you to stick to it. Replication response, Prime Minister. [[Intruder Bernardić: My apologies.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30628	Okay, let's go now, which is basically a plagiarism or a double publication. What's the problem? Make up your mind. ... What? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] What? What? Is it? ... Well done! [[You can't hear it.]] That's right, now we're going back to ad hoc government, ad hoc prime minister. The public needs to hear it. My colleague Bernardić, you are looking for a weak spot not after a hundred years from the zero day, from the zero day, you are looking for, you are looking for the ministers if there is something, you are looking for, that's the point. So this whole debate comes down to it. That's what the public understands, people see it, people are aware of it. You must decide which sentence in the opinion you have now mentioned is attributed to the case, which is referred to Minister Barisic because there are several cases, several related cases, as you can see in that opinion. And now you choose. It seems to me that that first sentence, if it's about the metrics of your labels, and your forte today was a plagiar, plagiar, plagiar, plagiar, plagiar, plagiar, plagiar, it's your forte so when someone now ex post analyses your performances they're going to do it, and you're now settling in another direction, and that's the direction of double publication. So I'm asking you now what's the new strategy during the debate whether we're on a double publication or on a plagiarism. If the failure to refer to footnote number 4 is not plagiarism, and it is not, the University of Split said, so said the University of Zagreb, then obviously you are now changing into a walking strategy because as a colleague Glavasevic said, this relativization of the metrics does not somehow contribute to the clarity of your argument and request.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30629	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30630	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Prime Minister. It's a good thing you clearly defined that there are no plagiarisms because we've been listening to plagiarizers, plagiarizers, etc. And it's a good thing that you've now defined that those who all the time said it was plagiarism are retreating because when I asked them where the plagiarism is and let them show where the plagiarism is, I couldn't get any answer. However, I must admit that I do not agree with you either if it were a mistake, however, I, at the place of my colleague Barisic, would not go to correct and put Schlesinger's reference in that footnote. And I'll make it very clear why. Because this is a review article that calls for various other authors, etc., and in this footnote is called for the original original authors who said so. They're not scientists at all, it's former Republican opponent Obama John McCain, it's a foreign policy adviser to President Obama Anthony Lake and Ivo Daalder who's from the Clinton administration they're talking about the League of Democracy and all those three names are listed in that footnote. Schlesinger wrote the same thing in his work later that these people were talking about the League of Democracy, as she did at about the same time or not, half a year later, a colleague Barisic wrote about the League of Democracy No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] I haven't even changed my footnote. [[Invader Jandroković: Thank you, colleague Reiner.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30631	I'd like us to stick to those for a few seconds and not move on. Replication response. Okay. Then the next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30632	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, you've tried to minorize this case by bringing it down to one simple footnote, to one simple mistake. However, you think through this whole beginning of the debate that you've come into debate with you, you think you're arguing with the opposition, that we want to bring you down, that we want to ask you for a minister with weak points, but in fact that's not true. You're in a debate with an academic community or a major part of the academic community who thinks the Minister is a plagiarizer. That's the point of this debate. We don't matter in this debate, it doesn't matter what we think, it's what you send. And you're sending a message that you don't care about the opinion of the academic community, that you don't care about the opinion of the Ethics Commission, that you don't care about anyone's opinion. You're the smartest, you know everything, the only one who can tell me what a metric is, you're the only one who's right about what you're saying, but you see you're not very professional about this issue either. Here I am, for example. I didn't. It's like I'm going to fix the locomotive now, and I have no idea about it. But that's why I trust whoever's doing it. I trust the academic community with the larger part, trust the Ethics Commission, trust the expert public and all those who say the minister is a plagiarizer. You said that we have called you a plagiarizer through this whole game of the replicator, a forger, but I, after your playbook, who spends all the time walking through this debate by walking around the assembly, waiting, throwing away, holding back, I don't think you're a forger. You're just a copycat, we've seen that before, deja vu. European Prime Minister, European boy speaks languages, smart, handsome You even have this one... /The speakers speak at the same time. /... they enjoy, they look at you in love. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] I'm just hoping you won't end up as your predecessor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30633	Comrade Djujic, you'd better fix the locomotives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30634	Well, thank you, colleague Jandrokovic. All right, truth hurts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30635	I don't know, Gordan. I don't know if I'm gonna be a little flashy again like the other day. What's better, what's...? Comrade Djujic, you say that you believe that you are an expert in this particular case, as most of the academic community have said. Can you tell me with one argument, by a single number, what is the majority of the academic community that has decided on this issue in such a clear way that we can say that most of the academic community holds for Minister Barisic what you want to explain to the public. What forum is this? What body is that? What is this way of collecting so that you can say it so convincingly, firmly, clearly, courageously? I don't know where you managed to count it that way. What I noticed, unlike you, I saw a lively debate in which there are people who agree with you, and there are many people who claim that in this particular case there is no plagiarism and that it is a mistake that the minister himself was then a scientist in 2008, the ninth observed and corrected and that it was disproportionate insistence, excessive attack by the minister because of a transparent article. Here's academic Reiner even suggests that the publicist shouldn't even be referred. Why do you think that most of you are so clear, and that it may not matter what he thinks about it, for example, the University of Zagreb Rectorial Assembly? Are they relevant? They're not relevant? Why do you think you're right, and maybe this other part of the academic community isn't bigger, maybe because it's too much and not loud enough? Deja vu. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30636	Thank you. Representative Miroslav Tudjman reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30637	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. In your discussion, you mentioned that two ethical committees have come to the conclusion that there are no plagiarisms. But then you said that this Ethics Committee had adopted a second opinion but had not said anything else, and that since the first day of this government's composition, it has been asked of this Ethics Committee to adopt such a negative opinion, that this was the consequence of why both the president and the deputy board and two other board members left the committee. That it is open to one of these members that they do not want to participate in the political instrumentisation of the committee and that they do not want political instrumentalisation of morals, which resulted in the fact that this committee has been reduced to five members and that it is in such a state that it is simply not able to verify the opinion, and by law, it is a non-binding opinion, not a binding opinion. He couldn't even verify his opinion. By the way, it is not said by those who are calling on the committee to wait for the Constitutional Court's opinion, whether or not they are in charge of the committee itself, whether they are constitutionally acceptable or not. And that's one of the disadvantages that you partially responded later on, but I think what's often used by the public today should also be known that dimension.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30638	Representative Josko Klisovic reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30639	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, in your presentation with quite a dose of sarcasm, you mentioned a prominent Croatian scientist, Ivan Djikic. You said that he had time through the Atlantic to read articles that weren't from his area. It's not about the area, it's about the care of every scientist, the standards of his own profession. By delegating one respected Mr. Djikic to restore credibility to another scientist to your minister, I do not think it is the right way and I think that you have crossed the measure of good taste, and I also think that the scientist Đikic, who has expressed his opinion publicly, has not crossed that measure of public taste, of good taste. I also believe that politics should not and must not be a measure of everything. In this case, we had an Ethics Commission. But we remember very well that the president of the Ethics Commission resigned at one point, publicly explaining that it was because of the pressure he received from the minister and his associates. This is the atmosphere in which we are talking today, in which we are deciding today on this issue, we are deciding on a standard of political responsibility. You also said that you wanted inclusion in the work on the Education Strategy and that for this reason you included a minister from the SDP government who is not a member of the SDP and a member of the SDP. I believe you included them as experts, not as politicians. But if you included them as politicians to give one political legitimacy, the SDP's legitimacy to that commission, then I ask you, have you talked to the SDP before? If you haven't spoken to the SDP, then unfortunately what you've done can only be treated as political manipulation. And the people you named in the Committee can only feel like a fig leaf to cover up reality. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30640	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30641	My colleague Klisovic, so I repeat again without sarcasm very clearly, very Decided. Anyone, you, scientist Đikić, anyone else in Croatia can, should, have the right to articulate their position, their interests, their arguments on any issue including this. So, I talked to Mr. Gikiæ on the phone. He expressed his concern. I told him, though you have every freedom to express your position in the Croatian public. Why not? Here you go. I don't blame him for anything. That's his attitude. I respect him, I appreciate him, I like the argument, I don't like him. No one's limiting him, absolutely. Why do you think my exposure today would prevent anyone from expressing their position? We live in democracy. No restrictions, no intimidations, no abuses in any way are on my mind. What you and I are doing today, we are having a political debate on the topic that is on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament today because you asked for it, you asked for it. This parliament has already voted in favour of the government and Minister Barisic on October 19th. You're the one who hurried to talk again about his trust. I don't put this topic on the air, you put it on, you push it, you emancipate it. As for my desire for pluralism in the work of a special expert commission as a body appointed by the Prime Minister himself as did the previous Prime Minister, I have insisted personally that these be people who, by their experience, can make a contribution to the development and implementation of this strategy Point, no manipulation, my wish. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] It would have been the same if it hadn't been for this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30642	Thank you. The following are the replicas addressed to the presentation of Minister Pava Barisic. First representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Barisic, after having had several replicas and discussions about the prime minister's presentation, what remains unclear to me, and I see that the prime minister is moving everything to politics and trying exclusively to politically define this issue as we want to replace the minister because of what is from the HDZ government, I don't know why he would choose you out of all 20 ministers. And he wants to show and draw attention from the criteria of the topic, meaning what's written in the request from the established facts. And what I would ask you is if you can comment on the facts, there are a dozen of the wrong quotes, authors when looking at sources from wikipedia are identical authors written. So there's a whole series of things that you're specifically suspected of being copied from some other papers or even from wikipedia. I would return, so this isn't policy issues, regardless of what the Prime Minister wants us to be aware of clean politics and send a message to the public that we are politicizing here, and we don't want to discuss whether or not this is about illegal matters. It seems to me it's a little bit of that siren, Sanader call but it's still Andrej... /The speaker speaks English./...you still have a little bit to do. It's not a flash drive, but Andrei... So on the other hand, we'll wait for the prime minister to get a little more scratch. But what I'm asking you, if you think the public doesn't see it I'll tell you, polls on the Internet,... Ten thousand people voted 92% think you should leave, on the monitor 86% Thinks you have to leave, so the vast majority of Croatian public thinks you have to leave [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Tell us if it's really that cave [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] The dark HDZ cave... /The speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30644	Agent Gordan Maras, I'm asking you in time. Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30645	Thank you very much for asking, and for interpreting Mr. Maras. I would only comment on this if I were glad to discuss today and my scientific opus. That's what I think is the most quoted footnote right now in the country, probably wider. But I would remind him when he asked that he did not political persecution related to my scientific work ate in a series of charges that were brought on me, and he twice stated in his interventions five accusations, slanders, falses, which he then said he would apologize to me if they proved incorrect, and I have denied them all, and now I stand behind all five of them. Among those five, it wasn't this one. Excuse me, I'm speaking now. I'm sorry, I have a phonogram that makes it quite clear what you were saying at the time in two interventions, and I wrote it down. So among all these five in your interventions of slander, it wasn't about plagiarism. And now let me tell you, neither the chairman of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education Vlatko Silobrčić knew about plagiarism at the time, but a few days after he heard from other sources that there was such a thing he asked for to be delivered to him. It's not outrageous, it's the chairman of the board that you've appointed here in the Parliament, he's called publicly to be delivered to him because he's heard something like that exists. That's recorded. And now you're going to say that it's not about any political budget, it's about the purely scientific questioning of my scientific ops. I stand behind my scientific occupancy proudly published in several countries in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30646	Thank you. Pedja Grbin's representative is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30647	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Do you know who Karl-Theodor Zu Guttenberg is, do you know? I believe you know. That was the German Defense Minister who had to resign, you know why? Because he plagiarized his doctorate. Four years after the plagiarism, it was discovered and the man had to leave. You say that the words spoken here during this debate are terrible, almost outrageous because you paid to say what was said in the Croatian Parliament in the 19th century and that what was said today came out of every frame. Do you know what the President of Bundestaga said about Mr. Zu Guttenberg's scandal? That it would stick a nail in a chest of German democracy. In Germany to make such a statement. What we said today is a camel according to what happened in a comparable situation in Germany. Now I'm sure you've heard of Karl-Theodora zu Guttenberg. However, I ask you, and I ask you to comment on this situation, have you heard of Mrs. Annette Scaven? Did you hear that? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear it.]] German is not my native language, but thank you, colleagues. The lady in question was a minister of education in Germany and had to leave in 2013. And do you know why? Because of the plagiarism. And do you know when that plagiarism happened? 1980. Today someone says we're pulling something that happened to you eight years ago. In 2013, Germany had to go for something that was made in 1980. We're here asking you to leave just for something you did in 2008. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30648	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30649	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. coat of arms, I'm familiar with the names you mention. However, a member of the Committee for Doctoral Dissertation of Zu Guttenberg was in Dubrovnik on my call and her works were published along with mine. I know very well the whole case, and you have no basis for comparison, because what's done in my case has nothing to do with it because it's not plagiarism. So, there's something that you're doing now, and unfortunately it's done as a logical mistake, and Mr. Djikic in his first letter when you replace the thesis, you know when you take an example where it really is a plagiarism, so for something that doesn't belong in that category, then you put it in and then you get something indistinguishable. It's a logical mistake, sophism, etc. Well, I wouldn't be teaching professorly right now, but in this case, I'd just like to warn you that it's something else entirely. So in this case, it's not about plagiarism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30650	Thank you. Representative Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I have a few questions for you. I would ask for clearer and more concrete answers. I don't know how long I'll be able to put them in these two minutes. In fact, you have stated that, for the Evening List, as I quote, "You have never received or asked for credit in the institution where you worked." I can now tell you what this link is. So it's an article titled "Barisic dropped all charges and quoted Glavas as saying. Let the rulings not be made by the media, but by some judgments shall be brought by the courts."Can you then explain to me the statement in the official and publicly available minutes of the Senate of the University of Split session of 11 September 2008 where under point 16. the decision to grant 6 housing loans with a subsidized interest outside the final regular ranking list with your name on second place. So here he is, under b) Professor Pavo Barisic at the Faculty of Philosophy in Split. Is there a footnote missing or is there another Pavo Barisic from the Faculty of Philosophy in Split or is it a press mistake? I don't know, I'm curious. Furthermore, you claim that the errors in the disputed article have been observed before the submission of the February 9th application, so can you explain why, in your statement of the Committee on Science and Higher Education since 24th of February 2011, you stated: "It is not true that the signatories claim that Dr. Pavo Barisic has taken over several passages, sentences, ideas from other authors' texts in the mentioned article without adequate reference to the source." All the compared parts of the text confirm to us that there is not a single paragraph, not a single sentence that has been downloaded from other authors without an appropriate reference to the source. Is this about alternative facts in the indication that you gave to the Committee on Ethics or that you failed to notice the corrections before submitting the application. Namely, the magazine... So the disputed one comes out with two years late. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'd dare say that the editor of the magazine, in the editorial office, and you're sitting, Jesus Padilla Glavez is your friend. Since he published in the journals philosophical research and quotes... [[The President's incursion: Time.]] where you're the editor-in-chief. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30652	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30653	Thank you very much for your questions. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Honorable Representative, therefore, regarding the accusation that I received a privileged loan at the University of Split, they also denied the then rector as soon as it was announced both the first time and later. And I repeat here in front of all of you and my honorary word for it I swear never any credit privileged not only to the University of Split, but to anyone I have not received any privileged credit from. So both in Split and anywhere else. And that's interesting how such misinformation keeps repeating itself, and the denials that, the people who were in charge at the university, they don't publish it. But that's why you're repeating something that's not true. Second of all, as far as this mention of yours is concerned, you'll just remind me of another argument. And I'm sorry, I remembered. So, the exact claim in my denial is in footnote if you read it carefully, and you obviously showed that you didn't read it carefully, although as far as I know, you're a linguist by profession, it's not a single full sentence, just parts of a sentence. So the claim you quoted is my exact one, and I'm standing behind it now. And secondly, you didn't add anything else that says there about errata corriga to the applicable way that in the printing process it seems when there's a mistake. That's what I did, not once, not just in the magazine. Docs than in other magazines. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30654	Thank you. Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30655	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers. I don't know about you, but I listened carefully to the leaders of the opposition both of them and what I managed to remember from their discussions and colleagues Bernardic and Vrdoljak is a sentence, I'm uncomfortable, I'm uncomfortable and one and the other have been saying it all along. And why are they uncomfortable? Because they've been tactically unprepared all day. They went into an argument and now they just realized during the debate that they were plagiarists. They took the analysis done by one scientist, signed it, signed 45 MPs to sign and say here's the government to see about it. They do it all the time. So what do I tell them now? That they're 45 plagiarists. Peda plagiar or Bero plagiar or Gordan plagiar. So they just realized during the debate, they weren't aware of it, and of course they're embarrassed. Why are they still embarrassed? They say we don't know you, it's nothing personal, but they want to humiliate you, they want to embarrass you, they want to insult your life's work. And if you've been listening very carefully to your colleague Maras, he says take him away from the minister, but he may be a professor. So Minister plagiarist can't be, but Professor plagiarizer is a very acceptable colleague of Gordan Maras. Look at those criteria, that's not how it's gonna work, gentlemen. It's right for us here to expose this story, that it's precisely known that it's one political billing project and that we have to stand up against those people who label everyone here every day. And that's why I called them the ethical court. And what else did they do? They told you today that you had plagiarized your own thoughts and invented a concept that the scientific community had not yet fully cleared up, autoplagiarism. That's terrible. Please persist in that fight because they would send you to the employment bureau.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30656	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Peja Grbin, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's he hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30657	Yes, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in such a way as to offend the applicants of the motion in question for impeachment of the minister or vote of confidence, stating that the article of the distinguished scientist, Mr Ivan Djikic, was plagiarized. That's not true. Mr. Ivica Djikic's article was really used when drawing up this document, but unlike those articles written by Mr. Barisic, we have in this motion to recall exactly where we take the quote from which article, when this article is published and where. So this is not about plagiarism, it's about correct quoting as it's done according to the rules of the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30658	Of course, I appreciate that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed because it has not offended you, nor has the interpretation been scientific work, as you know, and not even professional. The reply to the replica will be given by the Honorable Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30659	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric, for this question that opens up a really interesting situation. We are in what is called a paradoxical situation. that now scientific work is politically debated by people who may not understand the rules of ethics, science, etc. Therefore, in scientific evaluations are taken... reviews of those who are at least in the same title or in the same area. Now what happens in this situation when people who may not know this situation well in academic rules start to judge. We can ask ourselves why at least they don't respect those who are in academic life as Rector's choir as scientists. I will list the whole series that have explicitly said that it is not plagiarism which is of the prominent academics Miroslav Radman, Slobodan Vukicevic, Stipan Jonjić, Mislav Ježić, Miloš Judaš, Vlasta Bonačić Kutecki, Milo Ivanda, Vladimir Para, Aleksandr Jakir, Mark... etc. explicitly wrote that it was no plagiarism, yet they condemned such a way of doing so. So, when the scientific discourse turns into a political debate, then we get comical situations. And that's where I think the arguments are worth a whole lot different. I would add to that a conclusion which is very instructive, and it is difficult for the academic community whose scientific papers will judge politics with their own standards, and a difficult policy that does not respect the academic community and its freedoms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30660	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the debate. Please report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30661	No, I was just sounding for you to see me. So, Mr. Vice President, I would pray on behalf of, no, not only that we get a notice of when there will be a vote on this item and until today's debate or whether it will continue tomorrow, just so we know. I think we can get that information, and colleagues are probably interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30662	Of course you can. The vote will be tomorrow, and today there will be a debate as long as people report, it is democracy. So if you're gonna answer by 5:00 in the morning, we'll have a hearing by 5:00 in the morning. So here's the debate we're going to start now because this wasn't a debate yet. Therefore, the first representative of the Living Wall will speak on behalf of the Club, the distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. I'm opening a debate. And I'm sorry, on behalf of the proposer. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We had a choice today in this Croatian Parliament to go with the truth or to go, to defend ourselves with lies or alternative facts so that I would not be again declared too harsh when I call things a real name. Mr Plenkovic decided here today to serve alternative facts consciously or only for reasons because someone planted certain papers on him I don't know, but I believe we'll get answers very soon. The University of Zagreb and the Council for Ethics never, but it never discussed Mr Barisic's plagiarism case. This paper, which was sent to me by Mr Plenkovic, and you followed by a tumultuous clap and Mr Boras waved on a show on HRT. The day after that, key people of the advice they called indicated that those who found that Mr Barisic had not plagiarized parts of the work two days later have been fenced from those statements. The former president of the Ethics Council of the University of Zagreb, Vesnica Garasic, said that no ethical body of the University of Zagreb was competent to launch or deliver an opinion in the case of Minister Barisic since he was not an employee of the University of Zagreb. The same was said by a member of the committee of Tihomir Vukelja, the then rector of Mr. Alexa Bijeliš. If they had discussed Mr Barisic at the University of Zagreb, they would have violated their university's Ethics Code. So let's not go any further with those arguments. If they're your only argument, they're poor, they're transparent and they're easy to prove that they're fake and wrong. Let's move on. You asked for plagiarizers, so you don't get it, so the quotes come down, or things go down to one technical footnote. Let's go public to repeat some things the public may not have seen in this official proposal. Based on the data collected so far, I quote Mr. Djikic that Minister Barisic first plagiarized the text of Stephen Schlesinger... It's the first one. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] This is prescribed on page 301 without reference to the source. Let's move on. Unethically attached the idea from the book... Third, he used the idea from the book "The End of Politics" as his own without quoting the source. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fourthly, he incorrectly embezzled ideas from Robert Dahl’s book “He The Democracy. ” Fifth, used a copy paste Wikipedia. It is an amazing method that Minister Barisic used repeatedly copying parts of information from Wikipedia, and without a concrete quote of the original works, such errors are not allowed to students in colleges, nor scientists, and have been found in this work by Minister Barisic on several occasions. Peto, Minister Barisic copys from Wikipedia and makes mistakes in citing sources and tips from Wikipedia incorrectly pointing to the book “The End of History and the Last Man” and the real source of this information is the article “The End of History” published in 1989 in the magazine “The National Interest”. Barisic copying Wikipedia shows that he probably did not read the original work and that he did not know about its existence, but miscopying Wikipedia quoted the wrong source etc. etc. There's more. Among other things, one article today that sheds new light not only on this scientific paper but also on the doctorate of Mr Barisic. Let's be serious, let's not play. I'm not a person who's professional in assessing whether someone's work is plagiarized or not. But there are bodies that can and know it. But it is bad when you defend Minister Barisic in a way that you attack a body that has dared to remove a report from a drawer that was kept saying why only after two years. Well, because since 2011, and you are in that period, or later, there was no commission. You killed him, HDZ killed him, disbanded him the same way after determining the plagiarities of a known scientist. However, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which is technical support to the Commission, failed to deliver documents to this newly elected Commission in 2014 that arrived in the meantime. She kept them deep in a deep drawer at the Ministry of Science and Education, trying never to get to the board. The press knew something about it, who followed the work of the board and knew the history of what was going on. They asked Mr. Silobric when the board would discuss the case of a scientist who, meanwhile, became a minister. If this is the fault of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education to do their job and to have all the applications being observed, considered, brought opinions then they are to blame. That's the power of the law, and that's the power given to them by the Parliament. If they hadn't acted on that case, they wouldn't have done their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30664	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Dear Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague of the Voice. You have here, first you did not refer to the Ethics Commission of the Faculty of Philosophy in Split which expressed its opinion that it was not plagiarism. Secondly, the fact is you have manual numbers that now because of the time I do not read and sign documents of the ad hoc Ethics Commission of the University of Zagreb. You have the Ethics advice of the University of Zagreb with manual numbers, dates, press and signatures that it has been accepted where we hereby inform you that the advice has accepted the above-mentioned opinion that we are delivering to you in the attachment to this memo. Therefore, these are relevant documents until someone proves that they are a fake or that they have been falsified. So give some or some kind of political honesty and stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30666	The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30667	Dear fellow Tudjman, Mr. Plenkovic handed me the same signed document. Subject: Note of the opinion of the ad hoc Ethics Committee, President of the Ethics Council of the University of Zagreb Doctor of Science Vesnica Garasić. And there is a reference in one place exactly, Mr. Barisic. But the same lady said here I will repeat once again after this document has tried to show itself in this way that through this sentence, the committee considers that in the cases delivered, there is no order of plagiarism or its forms, so that sentence has been tried to show itself precisely by releasing Mr Barisic's guilt. But then she said nice after she said it wasn't like that. First, that they could never discuss him because he was not an employee of the University of Zagreb, they discussed in this case the autoplagiarisation of Mr. Covic and this applies in that part of him. And she's a beautiful woman she said, I have no reason not to trust her, no ethical body of the University of Zagreb was responsible that in the case of Minister Barisic she started or brought her opinion since she was not employed at the University of Zagreb. And not only that, I will repeat, means the same is said by the Rector of the University of Zagreb Mr. Beliš, and so said the gentleman who was signed in this opinion, it is Mr. Doctor of Science Tihomir who seems to me... They said that this, that I too have what you are showing me where the name Barisic is mentioned, but in this case he was not considered simply not an employee of the University of Zagreb and those as an ethical advice cannot discuss someone who is not an employee of that university or a component because otherwise they would have broken the code of ethics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30668	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague, Glasovac, responded to the replica that we might take today off the agenda so we don't repeat ourselves on a nonstop fact that they're trying to bend here that four bodies have decided on this and that all four bodies have said that there's no plagiarizing. Now you've repeated this section regarding the University of Zagreb, so let's stop saying it. Another thing that is constantly trying to say is that the Ethics Committee was not authorized to adopt this opinion. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, those who reported plagiarising doubts about plagiarism, they only reported it to the Committee on Ethics, and they only sent it to Split and Zagreb for information. So the Ethics Committee was in charge. And I'll do it again, so listen to me, Mr. Barisic, 70% of his time working at the Institute of Philosophy. The Institute of Philosophy is not part of the university, it is not subject to university autonomy. Therefore, no Constitutional Court can take down the decision of the Ethics Committee. And the other thing, here in this assembly we unanimously adopted with one vote against, the Excuse me from the Living Wall of fellow Sincic was against, the report on the work of the Ethics Committee, where the Ethics Committee explained to us that in order to work more successfully, because the lower cases did not solve the subjects extended this authority so that they could discuss these ethical subjects and we unanimously adopted it. No one has the record of that session phonogram said anything against it. And what's saddest when it comes to the opinion of the University of Split that it said it wasn't plagiarism, you know who was doing that opinion? He was a senior assistant, so he's not a doctor. And this senior assistant, who was his boss? Mr. Barisic. What would he dare write? That it's plagiarism? Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30670	Thank you very much. Now we're finally going to move on. ... You haven't answered. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30671	Well, it is a lot of such coincidences to say that the president of the Committee for Ethics, who gives a positive opinion or releases Mr Barisic at that time, finds that he is not a plagiarist, so it turns out that this man was an assistant to the same Mr Barisic. So when you look at a little of those decisions that were signed at the ministry in December where public funds have been generously allocated to magazines and scientific gatherings, and in the last few years they haven't received any swearings by some criteria, then you can see the same thing when you look at it and you see that the organizations of these gatherings, that in the offices of these magazines people who have been very closely associated with Mr. Barisic where he was very highly ranked in these magazines and in those associations, and then you see that these people suddenly appeared on that list of hundreds of scientists who support Mr. Barisic, and then you see that they are most people from Split, and then you read that it seems to me to be 47 million kuna for the new building of the Faculty of Philosophys. And there's a lot of coincidences about some things being random. I believe that by midnight, how much this debate is likely to take place is likely to detached and some other things that speak of an eclatant conflict of interest and an agreement from the Minister's place of certain structures which are so gallantly defended by the Minister at the moment. The Committee on Ethics was only doing its job you said well, Mr Jovanovic, but I find it interesting that some here who have long had no objection to this committee from 2007 to 2011 the same as the second-degree body considered some cases which had already considered lower levels of ethical commissions and no one found anything controversial at that time especially because the opinion of the Committee on the Ethics of this Croatian Parliament was never binding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30672	Thank you very much. Now we're finally going to have a debate. And the first will be on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Ivan Willibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30673	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, Croatian Parliament. Here we mentioned Nikola Tesla, who also said that it was said when he spoke of Croatian and Serb hatred to turn it into electricity so that cities could be lit up. Here's what I'm also noticing is that there's a lot of energy going on in this debate today. Well, I don't know, maybe we could use it in some combination and use it better. First of all, I want to say that I think that scientific opinion is above political opinion, that political opinion is relative to science. I also want to say that I don't support this government, I didn't support it in the last term, it was a similar composition, so I don't support the Minister of the Government. Well, I certainly won't vote for confidence, Minister Barisic. I also condemn plagiarism regardless of which side it came from, no matter what the case, I consider it to be a particularly harmful phenomenon. I absolutely condemn him. It's very similar to that behavior, to all this thieving we've witnessed in recent years, to immorality and to destroy the tissue of our society. We must finally turn to the culture of creation, not the culture of cheating, whether it's cheating, thieving or plagiarizing or something third or tenth. I'm sorry, too, and now I'm getting attached to that whole whole "A" thing from the beginning, we're wasting a lot of energy. Why? I believe that this issue should have been resolved at scientific level, i.e. that the scientific community should have leveled standards that it always and in all situations knows whether any document or work is plagiarism or not plagiarism. Universal rules for all people like some sieve you throw rocks at, what goes down is plagiarism, what stays up is not. However, we are witnessing that the scientific community did not resolve this and that this issue was then raised to the Croatian Parliament to the level of politics which I believe should not have happened until the end. If the scientific community had solved this question, colleagues and colleagues, for a week, maybe one day would have been enough to solve this issue. Minister Barisic, if you have really plagiarized I invite you to look into yourself, if you do resign immediately here and now. If you're not defending your views. No, we already have for weeks, as long as this theme has been constantly spinning for a month, it keeps repeating itself. Last night during a break about the Immunological Institute, I got a call from a journalist and I think they're gonna ask me about the Immunological Institute. No, no one asked me that yesterday. They're asking what I'm gonna do today. Please focus our energy on constructive things. These things should be resolved in the scientific community first and quickly with much less energy, not to make it a major topic in the country for a long time. I noticed, and it's my personal opinion that it's not as important as who it is, but who it is. That it doesn't matter who works well, it matters first of all who, who he works with. I want the time to come to Croatia to make decisions according to the scale, not according to form, and I will always fight for it. It saddens me and divides me among scientists. Half the scientific community or I don't know a fifth, it doesn't matter, I'll say half because the two sides are saying it's plagiarism, the other half says it's not plagiarism at all, it has nothing to do with it. So support lists are being collected, and prominent scientists claim one thing, prominent scientists the other. Half of them get up in defense, half of them ask for their resignation. I will point out two renowned scientists in that conflict between Ivan Djikic and Vladimir Para both while I was a student 10, 15 years ago in elementary and high school were people I could tell myself I admired, I learned from them. Some I've had opportunities to meet, etc. And now after 10, 15 years, I'm in a situation where one of them will be declared either ignorant or lying. And imagine all the other Croatian students and students who appreciate the work of these people and all the other people who settled in this situation, in what doubts they are now. What kind of doubts are they in? Who's moral here, who's not moral, what's right, what's wrong? Did politics slip deep into our scientific structures? And I say it's time to leave science to scientists, history to historians, and politics to deal with political matters, and she can only learn from science because their opinion is first-class. It also saddens me. In particular, I've been investigating this case as closely as I can. The more I explored, the more I came up with the more devastating results. So here I'm going to say in some ways it's about ethics, and ethics is a discipline of morality or say some science about Minister Pavi Barisic. He was convicted by Mr. Silobric, or his commission, of the bristle, and I will not waste a word on him. Yesterday we read, i.e. I also read the find of the State Review of the Moral Standards of that person. There are also several scientists in that chain who have reported to the Ethics Committee on plagiarism, Mr Barisic. One of them is Tomislav Janovic. So I came to this book called “Dualism. ” The book was published in 2013 because it was a condition for progress. There has been progress, this is a document Mr. Janovic is elected, chosen for the scientific calling of a senior scientific associate. The book was reported to have 60 pages, but what happened. The book didn't have that much at the time. The book of colleagues and colleagues was half empty in 2013, fourteen years. Here we go again, half empty. It is now 200 pages with another SSN number, the so-called Tamagotchi affair gradually complemented every year. Therefore, I will not judge Mr Barisic, nor Mr Silobrčić, nor Mr Janovic and Dr. I think it's primarily a question of the scientific community. It saddens me just to find ourselves in a situation where some foreign newspaper is going to write, which, let's say this fraud, the fraud reported the undertaker of the Immunological to judge the plagiarist. Well, shouldn't someone be moral and normal in that chain of reporting and conviction, I'm asking you? The question arises in the honesty of our institutions, the morality of the people who report, who are convicted. Is politics in our ethics again? Is he wondering who he is again, not who he is? So I think this is a very sad day for us to spend a lot of energy. Maybe we do? Maybe in our society we need to get this straight. To judge and decide what is the tip of the iceberg. We see for ourselves that corruption is much or at least immoral. Not every immorality has to be prosecuted. Here's the student who followed these numerous scientists and now as a representative, and above all, I'm sad. Let us place, I invite you all, education in Croatia in the first place. Let's not do politics out of everything. Let's raise our standards. I agree with my colleague Bernardić and Mr Vrdoljak, let's raise our standards in Croatia, raise them more. Let's set standards and stick to them, but then we all, so that the whole scientific community knows, and it's something or it isn't. It's a verdict and it's over. It's either resignation or staying, not this kind of story, the hickeys, the links we'll see if they'll be justified or not. Because this is now a political issue. This is no longer a scientific question. I will not personally support Mr Barisic because he is a member of the government that I do not support. Members of my Live Wall Club and I call on the Force to vote on their conscience. Members of the coalition, I also call on the only option to vote towards conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30674	I thank my colleague, Sincic. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported first to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30675	Thank you very much, President. Comrade Sincic, you said well, you should leave this job to be done by scientists to the end. But unfortunately, when we see data in research from Croatian universities, we can only cry everyone here today. So, the data shows that 60% of students subscribe to exams and that even a number of students ask for money for successful exams. 9% of teaching staff claim they were offered money to pass, to pass the exam. 50% of scientific staff have knowledge of the undeserved authorship of certain scientific papers. 30% of the teaching staff are familiar with the plagiarism case. 53% are familiar with the phenomenon of nepotism. 20% with the emergence of political favoration, and most tragically, 80 to 90% of scientific and teaching staff are familiar with cases of dishonesty, but nothing would have done to expose these cases. So it's a condition. And how is that going to be better if the head man of the ministry is a plagiarizer himself? Therefore, we are in a vicious circle where the only solution to this man's resignation is. And as much as he's supported by his colleagues, so we simply have a record of 200 philosophers from the academic community, only 13 signed the support. And today we talked a lot about Nikola Tesla, and yet another very good piece of information about how plagiarizing took the big wave. Namely, Nikola Tesla University in Gospić recently chose a new dean. He even sent his ex-dean on the road. The Dean Vlatka Ružić worked so hard to write a good program she wrote from Požega Velučite, and she did not even change her text on the name Požega, writing about Gospić's programme everywhere. There, that's our reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30676	Thank you, Agent Jovanovic. Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30677	Thank you, Chairman. If this data is correct, and I suppose it is, it is the defeating data, and for these results we are all responsible for, all of us, all the authorities so far, politics, in part even I, who am in opposition, am not in power because here I can only call. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30678	Thank you. Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30679	Thank you. You say to a respected colleague, Sincic, scientific opinion should be above political, but tomorrow we will have to make a decision as politicians. That's what you're gonna have to do. We'll vote tomorrow at 12 o'clock on this issue. You invited members of your club to vote on their conscience. A conscience in my deepest conviction states that someone who is a plagiarizer cannot be a minister. Here we heard here now from counterpart Jovanovic that the dean in Gospić, whether, the University also plagiarised since Minister Barisic is her minister, I think she can expect full support from the minister. This wasn't just about the academic community. She's divided. Of course, she is also politically divided, she has different preferences. With some, Minister Barisic was in good relations, with some of them co-operated, some he was the boss, some he was a mentor, and you support him, and what he would do. These others who are independent of him, they claim to be plagiarism. The general public has also been involved outside the community. All conditions have been obtained for Minister Barisic to step down from the duty of Minister of Science and Education. It stands in today's statement the candidate list of a group of voters of the bearer Mara Kristic. Maro, Mr. Maro Kristic, representative of MOST, it is obvious that the conscience is beginning to awaken with the representatives of MOST, of which we do not hear the obvious today. But we expect, at least I expect them to keep that pre-election promise they made and act consciously in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30680	Thank you, Agent Stazic. Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30681	Thank you, Chairman. There's a lot of affairs, I'm sure there'll be more. I can only invite Croatian students, students to work hard, to have a spine, not to give in to pressures and easy solutions that are often not available. Sometimes there are, often there aren't. There are things that can be solved quickly and decisively, there are things that are processes. Croatian scientists can only be urged not to submit to political and financial pressures or blackmails. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30682	Thank you. Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30683	Thank you. My friend Sincic, you've said nicely it doesn't matter who he belongs to or who he belongs to. Comrade Barisic, there's one problem, actually two. He's got two problems. The first thing he didn't do was not finish the kumroving school and he didn't get his doctorate in Belgrade. Second, he graduated from law school, completed philosophy in Croatia, doctored in Germany. And please, you deceived Pavo and the Germans! Interestingly, the Germans as one nation, which we all admire their scientists, have confirmed one Ph.D. as one true Ph.D. However, when you come to the Croatian Parliament, they call it a plagiarizer. Who took a PhD in Sarajevo, Belgrade and anywhere in the former Yugoslavia has never heard of plagiarism. No, there's no plagiarism. It's all right, it's all right. You mentioned Nikola Tesla. Nikola Tesla would be a plagiarist for you if he were on the side of the Croatian state by chance because of Edison taking some of his stuff from the electrocution. You'd call him and that would be able to say that he's a plagiarizer, too. And another thing, Stazic, the Croatian people love Nikola Tesla compared to what you said they didn't like. And we think he was supposed to be a Nobel. But there they stole his knowledge, so man wasn't it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30684	Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30685	Thank you very much. My colleague Sincic, I listened closely to your debate and she was correct. On the trail of what you said yesterday when we talked about the Immunological Institute, and indeed the person who was mentioned a lot yesterday obviously and has no certain ethical characteristics that you were now talking about could be something to gather about and then politically judge. I think your debate was correct, and that on the subject of counterfeiting and plagiarism we could certainly discuss, but obviously this debate is going in the right direction, that tensions have quieted down a little bit, and now we're going to have an argument really on the basis of what they've submitted as an initiative. And on the basis of what the government has answered, given that we see that the colleagues in the opposition have not done very well, and it is correct that you said that you will allow your members to vote by conscience, let them decide for themselves what it is, whether it is politics, whether it is science and ethics or something third.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30686	Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30687	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sincic, in your debate, you have touched one problem that we are spinning all the time and we will be spinning all day until midnight, and that is the question of who has the right to judge whether it is plagiarism or not. Not you, not me, not anyone in this assembly, but just the Ethics Commission. And that's why we chose an ethical commission. Neither can those 100 scientists, nor can counterpart Djikic, nor can Nikola Tesla, to whom we now swear. It can only be judged by those who have the right to do so, which we have given, we have delegated our right to this Ethics Commission to do so. And that's something that's the liquid of Europe. In Europe, their representative bodies are not being debated in America whether or not the minister has plagiarized. The minister is leaving alone when he's suspected of plagiarizing part of his work. The German Minister of Education resigned and went into legal battle to prove whether she plagiarized her doctorate or not. And that's the fate of officials who are in certain places. And that is what Minister Barisic does not want to understand, that this is where you provide scientific cleanliness in Croatia, that in Croatia it is not plagiarized. With this debate today and the defence of HDZ, we say in Croatia can be copied, prescribed, there is no sanctions, it is the wrong commission, it is Silobrčić or other members of the commission No, it's the plagiarists. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30688	Thank you. Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30689	Thank you, Chairman. I want to respect Croatian institutions, but those who know how to do a job so badly that I simply cannot respect them because they do not comply with morals because they do not comply with other human rights. Well, you know that when it comes to the Constitutional Court for me, it's still the political court they're sitting in... politicians and the least professor sitting in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question arises whether the Ethics Commission is also such a body, as there is a Parliament affecting it as a political body. But Germany, Germany didn't have a generation of politicians who unfairly came up with assets, or had no assets recently. Maybe she had it there during the Bismarcks, during those wars, so it cleared up. Today we feel the consequences of the '90s, we feel the consequences of still war. We've got politics in everything, and that's why there's doubt about the institutions. And that is why I would like to finally establish a standard in Croatian science, first of all, that we will all stick to it very quickly, effectively deciding whether something is plagiaristic or not regardless of what the prime minister thinks, what the majority of the Parliament thinks or what the public thinks. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30690	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30691	Thank you very much. Comrade Sincic, in your discussion you touched on the topic and took the view that you will be against or to vote against the mistrust of Minister Barisic. What characterizes you is that you've allowed people from the club to choose their own conscience to vote. We've been discussing this whole evening for three and a half hours, and a lot of people are looking at us here and thinking about how someone's going to set up in this debate. They heard the HDZ stand out of the prime minister's word. They know how to set up the SDPs. Now they've heard how you're going to stand up. But a lot of people here are thinking about setting up another key partner in the HDZ Bridge coalition. There's no information there. And do you think the Bridge will be a bridge to European standards or a pantograph over a swamp that helps HDZ maintain unsustainable? That's what our people ask themselves. And I'm glad that you as one significant club have given your position. But I believe you would also like to know as well as our citizens who are the decision of the Bridge of Independent Lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30692	Thank you, Agent Maras. Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30693	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague, Maras, you've raised the question of the Bridge well. I remember when the government voted not her but she before when it was the same event that took a lot of energy, it lasted long in small hours, and now that it started the first one to be reported to the Bridge for discussion was counterpart Kovacic. He was sitting down there waiting for everyone to finally come to resolve that dilemma and 10 days of negotiations to explain what happened. And when my colleague Kovacic finally came in, he said if memory serves me for two minutes, and from that first minute there was a problem with the microphone, we could barely hear it. In the second minute he didn't say anything constructive except that he planned to speak longer but that he wouldn't. Although he didn't say anything, there were 20 replicas, I remember as if there were yesterday, 20 replicas on the subject. I call on the Bridge to at least one of their members to give at least some information. I'm not asking you to delay the discussion that you're all talking. I'm asking you to say it's important. Personally, I think the Bridge will be restrained. Maybe I was wrong? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30694	Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30695	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleague Sincic, I think you've noticed the meaning of today's debate. This is about a classic SDP and HDZ account we've been looking at for 26 years. This is literally a political issue, reportedly quasi-political because we have been living in one-sided in Croatia for a very long time. For such discussions on what was before "a chicken or an egg", whether plagiarism or not the two largest parties in Croatia are able to talk for the next 365 days. They'd basically just talk about it. However, when questions are asked which are crucial to the future of this people, which is the ratcheting of weapons within NATO alliances, obedience to the European Union, foreign bank borrowing, sale of property, the monopolies that have, say, the Centre for Vehicles, then both parties agree. They raise their hands and spend one of those same policies. Therefore, in this debate, I think that you did well not to get involved and I call on all those other MPs who are not in these parties not to get involved in this story, but to simply start to appreciate the MPs when they are fighting over key issues and when they really promote authentic, credible opinions regardless of which foreign power centre or interest lobby is approaching Croatia. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30696	Thank you. Representative Sabina Vosovac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30697	There's no HDZ and SDP war here. You are also trying to track down HDZ in part of your debate where instead of discussing the competences of Minister Barisic and how good he will bring to the education system, we are actually starting to seclud more and more the Committee on Ethics, so why is he working in the british composition, so that the president who resigned as president of the Committee's work I will not say in the past life but in the image of the past life. Yes, he works in the back of the commission, works in the back of the band because it was those representatives of the University of Zagreb who were told to resign to work in the back of the commission so that it could be torn down and taken away from the mandate and those of the others elected in this House. Well, it's all a game we've already seen in the first meeting of the Ethics Committee from 2007 to 2011. Well, it's nothing new, so the script repeats itself, it's always the same model that some things do. But then let everyone here say clearly and loudly we do not need the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education in the Croatian Parliament. That's what we wanted to end 20011 because they were solving Asim Kurjak's case. We didn't like it. We didn't like it. We killed him. We don't need him now that he's solved the case of Pava Barisic. And say it nicely, clearly articulate it and calm Bosnia what would be said, not do circuses like this. Do we need it or don't we need it? Finally, I repeat the opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education is not binding. Another reason why I don't understand why you keep focusing on the Ethics Committee. Yeah, why? Why? In order to question his credibility and what they wrote, they found plagiarism. But we won't get far if it takes part in this debate that Minister Barisic's focus is transferred to the Ethics Committee. But we can discuss that too if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30698	Thank you. Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30699	Thank you, Chairman. I don't see why you focus so much on the ethics committee. We can speak of what we think of certain members of him or whether he is a smudge or not, it is the body of the Croatian Parliament that can bring its opinion, so it exists under the law. However, what I was talking about is that he has immoral behavior. Whether it's plagiarizing or not, it's going to be decided by some institutions. I hope they'll be right when they judge because no one likes to suffer injustice. I'm against it, we're constantly arguing about issues that aren't political. So our job here is to represent, deal with politics, talk about education policies, policies I don't know about foreign policy and all the other policies that go into it. The English dictionary has the word “policy” for it. We have a word that covers both concepts of politics. I say again, this was primarily meant to pass or fall on a filter, a scientific filter that was supposed to be raised to a high standard and harmonised. And not that we have a situation where respected scientists can't agree whether or not it's plagiarism. Well, it's not a theory of the creation of space or the development of a cell and that scientific opinions differ. It is a common standard that should be uniformly uniformed as the Croatian spelling, although for a long time there were several spellings I remember. Let's set one standard, one framework for everything, and let's figure out how serious countries do it, not constantly politicize every topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30700	Thank you, Agent Sincic. The HDZ Representatives' Club also signed up for participation in the debate. In their name will speak MP Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30701	Mr. President, I answered in time, and it was seen that I was looking for a replica. I don't understand why I was eliminated. Here are the MPs who saw it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30702	I apologize to Agent Tudjman. Here's my apology. All right. Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30703	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. If HDZ and MOST cannot defend Minister Barisic with all arguments, then he cannot be a member of the government. But respected colleagues and colleagues, over the past few weeks, have developed a scientific discipline in Croatian scientometries and is increasingly scientometers, metricists. These are the ones that measure imagine in Parliament the scientific contribution of someone and something. I'm like a scientist scared today by what I'm listening and seeing here. A lot of people are looking at us from the scientific community today, and tonight I'm really worried and we need to protect science. I'll ask you a question after Mr. Sincic. If the tweezer continues to extract what someone wrote in the academic community and how will you believe it will shrink significantly. Let's not do that, don't do that. Mr. Sincic, you asked why this item even came to this session of the Parliament today. You wanted to be objective. Why, who let this matter get away with science and come here, and that the Parliament, politicians moralize this because I hope that it will agree with me that Machiavelli would have a lot to learn here about politics and morality today and would certainly enrich his knowledge and write his works. What do you think about whether the autonomy of the scientific, academic community is compromised here and what should have been done to prevent this from happening?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30704	Thank you. Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30705	Thank you, colleague Lovrinović. I'm not a scientist. Well, I think the standards and political and scientific in Croatia are still not high enough. I think there's a lot of things at stake, like you said, and it's going to take a lot of time for the situation to clear up both in politics and in science and in other structures. Here's what if one day in a government I was a minister of some older years what would political opponents do to him? They'd ask him for some papers or books he wrote maybe during the former state to the former president or some other state I don't know if he was in Argentina what he wrote to some Argentinean president. That's right, you can do it but it really takes so much energy, so much media attention and resources to invest in discussing it. Here I call for constructiveity and call for enthusiasm when discussing other topics not only of this topic. And I also call for the freedom of counsel. Let's stop being so attached to some party discipline. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30706	Thank you. I would ask Representative Miroslav Tudjman to address on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30707	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We live at a time when ideas and images are more important than the reality of the truth, when misinformation is more effective than facts, when information is a weapon used without sanctions, and the fates of individuals, companies, governments, peoples and states are destroyed. We are witnessing these phenomena from global to national and individual destiny. We are witnessing that the cause of the war in Iraq was misinformation as Iraqis possessed weapons of mass destruction. We are witnessing that Croatian generals have spent years in The Hague based on lies and slander. We are witnessing misinformation in the media and in the Croatian Parliament which function as facts and lies as arguments. To this and such a spirit of time, he also succumbed to this proposal to raise the issue of trust to Pavi Barisic, who aims to bring down the minister in the government and discredit the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Like any misinformation and this will last until the public knows the facts. Interpletion shall be referred to an ethical code or Article 8. A code of ethics on scientific dishonesty and fraud in science. Scientific dishonesty is defined as fiction, falsification and plagiarization in the proposal and conduct of research, reviews, etc., the invention of data or results and their marking and publication, counterfeiting, misuse of research materials by equipment and procedures, etc. Why am I saying this? Because there was a question of standard today. And now I ask the question can this Ethics Code serve as an ethical code of conduct for political or political dishonesty and political fraud? I believe that the signatories of this, namely the author of this proposal, who was able to deceive and the other 45 signatories were actually used by fraud and illicit actions or manipulations in order to articulate this request. I will read the basic position of this request: "The Committee for Ethics in Science and Higher Education on 28 December 2016 adopted a unanimous opinion establishing an infringement of Article 8(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Ethics code in terms of plagiarization, idea-taking, etc. in the article and the fact that behaviour that is not acceptable to the person who is acting as minister of science and education, so the person who is at the head of the resistor, who is among other things, is concerned about the protection of authority and intellectual property." The counterfeiting and invention of signatories for the launch of this issue is obvious. Namely, such findings of this part of the follow-up sentence, which is not acceptable by a person acting as minister in science and education, do not have such findings in the opinion of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. They attributed their assessment of the proposal to the Committee in order to manipulate the public. It's a fabrication and falsification that's defined in the Ethics Code as scientific dishonesty and fraud. Apparently, the signatories think that in politics, dishonesty and fraud are allowed behavior, so they act that way. However, it is not an example. Allow me as much time as I can, I'll warn you of another one, a few more. On the occasion of the proposal to raise the issue of trust Pavi Barisic, the proposal to launch confidence begins with the conclusion that already during the presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament, MPs have pointed out the problem with the proposal of Pava Barisic on the minister's role in science and education, given the circumstance that the same suspect is a violation of the Ethics Code by plaging, etc. It's a quote that stands in this proposal. The facts are different. Political dishonesty can also be seen in the methodology of labour and political fraud of the proponents of the impeachment of Minister Barisic. At the time of the government's presentation, the minister was not suspected of violating the code of ethics because the quote ended five years ago in a regular and legitimate procedure. The Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education has therefore adopted its opinion only 2 months after the constitution of the Government. So, authors, co-signator of the motion to recall Minister Barisic's call for the non-existent opinion of this Ethics Committee, expecting his negative assessment. Such political behaviour of the opposition led to the collapse of the Committee, a part of the members were not given an instrument for the political needs of the opposition or refused to agree to political instrumentalisation of morals. The third example of manipulation, which repeats what is in this proposal, quotes: “The Minister performs the activities of 19 different departments at the Faculty of Philosophy in Split”. The fact is that in 2008 he was already on such a meal, Professor. Josip Milat replied that Professor Barisic has five single-semed colleges, no cathedrals. There's one carrier, four lectures. Also, the defendant's libel journalist apologized to Professor Barisic, so the lawsuit was dropped. The signatories of the proposal also call for Ivan Djikic's opinion, realizing that plagiarism is common – not Đikic, but signatories find that plagiarisation is the usual way of working by Minister Barisic because he uses ideas, thoughts and words of other authors in his works, in the plural. The fact is that Ivica Djikic analyses only one article published in the magazine calling for the proposal. What's the measure of things? There's been a lot of talk about it today. So this is an article, an article from the 2700 Circumstance on page 7, 6 of the reference, which does not state a possible author, but since today it was not about the scale of the matter, that is, the content of that sentence is about the community of democracy or the League of Democracy. This idea was presented by Democrats, her author Barisic writes a philosophical person is Kant's idea of eternal peace, and it is assumed, and now goes to quote what we are discussing here and why the opposition requires the change of ministers, the quote is "The group of 50 democratic peoples who cooperate would be able to protect human rights, introduce peace and achieve prosperity around the world, and possibly even affect the peoples by dictatorships to democratisation and, more importantly, to neutralize the power of authoritarian states such as China, Russia in the Security Council, etc." This is the crime attributed to plagiarism. It should mean that this author Stephen Schlesinger is actually a consultant for international, primary adviser to international relations, that he is a political commentator and is only a minor lecturer at certain universities. And as such what was already said he was a secondary source who referred to these other sources that advocated this idea, what Antoine Lake, Ivo Daalder said, and another was author. Thus, in this sense it is difficult to talk about any seduction of any copyright since this is just a representation of what others have been saying. On the other hand, I will just say briefly what is already said is a mistake in the lack of or binding the name for this quote, or these words that I have just quoted as correcting in the following article, namely in the same article but which came out in Spanish before any withdrawal of the application for violation of the ethical code against Professor Barisic, which clearly indicates that there was no author's intention to plagiarize or use Schlesinger, his ideas, that the error of not publishing the source of quoted work is a failure of the author and reviewer if you want to because it is a job among other reviewers to warn such failures. And what's important is that this is not about plagiarism, since the whole idea is not originally not originally represented by Schlesinger but represented by Kanta for 200 years is already represented in this literature but this is, even I believe that this Parliament was also speaking in the 1990s that small nations or national states are not the ones who wage wars but are imperial forces or those who do so on behalf of supranational ideas. All this is even if you are calling for an ethical commission, then you are giving so much respect to political or scientific as you will, what has the ethical commission of this Assembly committee established? If they brought it, I will not read it now because of the time and the ethics committee of this committee consider the application against Professor Barisic partly justified in the work concerning the taking of the works of Steven Schlesinger's comment. But also what is not said and it is relevant for this discussion that Professor Barisic's application against those who accused him of this assembly, that this parliamentary committee considers Professor Barisic's application justified because those who did, who reported him, violated Article 5. The Ethics Code, by submitting applications to the knowledge of twenty institutions, bodies and legal entities, and by creating an enemy working school environment, etc. And that's exactly what we're witnessing today. Now I have to skip something to just go to one conclusion that I think would make a lot more sense and purpose than what we're trying to do here. Today all the good universities in the world use to plagiarize, to check plagiarization for this purpose developed software. One of the most extensive software in the world is... used by 15 thousand institutions and 30 million students and in Croatia, as far as I know, it has been used by ZHM for a year. Some universities oblige students to release their text through such software before handing over graduate work to prove that the work is not plagiarized. Such a procedure is also used by the editorials of scientific journals because they protect themselves from being missed by plagiarism and not being corrupted by the reputation of magazines or universities. The conclusion of this barren debate should be that the Republic of Croatia buys Carnet software like this... and puts it at the disposal of the entire scientific community, students and professors. It would be the most effective move to fight plagiarisation in Croatia. The application of this software could show that even a number of defenders, current critics are not without sin. The next question that is being raised is the question of scientific dishonesty and fraud, i.e. the question of standards that were called upon by colleagues Bernardić and Vrdoljak and Sincic, the issue of political dishonesty and fraud, i.e. this case Barisic is a school form on which to investigate dishonesty and fraud in politics when passion and desire for power overcome honesty and reason, when the principle that the aim justifies the means is dominated. It is time for the Ethics Code of Science to become part of the Ethics Code of the Croatian Parliament, and that fact itself would be a warning not to draw up such sloppy interpretations based on counterfeits and misinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30708	Thank you. I'm sorry you're late. Are you looking for Stanka? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break for obstructing this issue. Namely, according to the number of reports, a debate is expected for the next 12 hours, and your predecessor said the debate would take place if it is due until 6 a.m. Please, we're here in the morning of eight o'clock, and right now we're 11 o'clock in the Assembly, and there's no point in having this issue discussed until 6 a.m., 23 hours in a row. I propose that today we hold only debates towards the club of representatives, and that the debate be terminated afterwards, and that the individual debate be continued tomorrow. I'm looking for a break on that one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30710	Well, now you've explained the reasons why you're looking for a break. According to the Rules of Procedure, we can do as much as we estimate necessary. So, I'll give you a break, but I announce that we'll do this point until we're done. Dear colleague of the Voices, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30711	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would also ask you to grant us a 10-minute break for the same reason that we might in some way be able to demonstrate as much quality further work as possible during this debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30712	But I don't understand right now, you're looking for a break to explain to me how you want to work quality on this wheel. It doesn't make sense to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30713	To coordinate that at the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30714	Co-ordinate at the club? Okay. [[Subject Voter: Yes.]] All right. I'm taking a 10-minute break. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.10 HOURS]] The first address of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30716	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here just two weeks ago we witnessed the procedural violence that resulted in both the unfavorable scenes and the leadership of the Parliament, it announced that it had learned something about the problem, but we see that it was not because after two weeks of failure, we once again bear witness to procedural violence where it was intended to force lawmakers to give up their speech by holding them in this Assembly until 3:00 in the morning. According to the number currently reported, there are 24, 4 clubs and 20 MPs if there is not a single replica of the debate will last until midnight. If there are only two replicas on each exhibit, and we have seen that there were 15, 20 for each representative, the debate will last until 4 in the morning. We've been here since 8 o'clock in the morning, 11 o'clock in the morning. And it's setting up, we're working tomorrow from 9, so now we have to stay at 4:00, go home and wash up, have a cup of coffee and go back. Is that possible? Is this the Assembly Hall, is this Parliament or is this some kind of Big Brothers show? What do we want to call this argument Survivor who's last to stay? I don't think it's fair for MPs not to talk, and I think we should let today be a debate around the club of MPs and tomorrow an individual debate because we've already had this, so that's what we had when we voted on the budget. And remember, that's how it was about tax reform, that the debate went through three days, and that it allowed MPs to say what they were thinking. This shows, means repeating the process, this shows the fear of the ruling that people are saying their opinions. And the citizens want to hear what's going to be debated here today and I can't because they're working tomorrow morning and they have to go to sleep at 10, 11, make the kids, make themselves ready. This debate can't be followed at 3:00 in the morning. So what are we? The Night's Watch? Please, if you have said that you will respect the integrity of this House, if the President of the Parliament said in his opening statement that it will improve the work of the Parliament, then allow the representatives to normally and in peace and not at the border of psycho-physical abilities here to express their opinions. You vote tomorrow anyway, you don't vote today, but that's what the President of the Parliament said. And nothing's gonna happen. Don't limit people to your own opinions in this way. Freedom of speech is a constitutional category. And nice please, this isn't funny, if anyone thinks it's tricky now it hasn't turned out to be clever. I repeat this once again the procedural violence that will once again result in the fact that instead of the debates, the public will have to entertain themselves by fighting, by conflict, I don't know what to do at the end of the call of the Assembly Guard. Do something while you can, and now you can after my exposure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30717	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. So just for the sake of truth and record, so many times this Parliament has worked until late nights and no one is forbidden to speak and you can speak as you have spoken all day and so you can and as long as you work for me. You said only one thing, I would warn you that it's a little illogical, because you say people can't listen long at night because tomorrow morning they have to go to work, then tomorrow morning they won't be able to listen because they'll work. So it's a little illogical. So the chairman of the Rules of Procedure has the right to determine how long the work will be done and I will work in accordance with the practice so far. Here's your esteemed colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30718	It's good for you that she won't be able to watch. So, colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Bunjac, this must be in the evening school. Afterwards the Nightmare is now at the Evening School. So, we got the information yesterday that there was going to be a debate today so we realized it would be at 9.30, then the HDZ colleagues correctly said it would be after the government, so we thought it would be at 11.30 and then they said it would be at 15. But watch whenever we're ready. Therefore, if, perhaps, it would be best for this debate to be broadcast in the video, to be copied and placed in the video. As far as late work is concerned, I can only say who survives will talk, but it's much better than this one who prescribes will survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30719	Okay. Thank you very much. Now we're going with replicas to the presentation of distinguished colleague Miroslav Tudjman. A colleague named Vesna Bedeković appeared after the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30720	So here's colleague Tudjman I'm going to refer to that part of your discussion where you talked about the yield between the actual facts and the constructed concepts and the conclusion, of course, based on such constructed ideas. In fact, the name of Mr Barisic is mentioned in two contexts throughout the afternoon. The first context of Barisic as a scientist, the second context of Barisic as minister. As far as the case is concerned, Barisic is a scientist, so almost everyone here has agreed that this is a matter primarily of the academic community and that the academic community is the only metricatoric so this problem is solved. And the academic community solved it in a legitimately regular procedure of the Ethics Committees of the University of Split and the University of Zagreb five, six or more years ago and that is a fact. As far as the Barisic case is concerned, we are here, unfortunately in the last few weeks, witnesses to the creation and creation of actually an artificial idea that is constructed by different stakeholders, different political parties and, of course, supported by a media link. And that very artificially created idea has become unfortunately more important than the actual facts. Now, a question that I would like to ask you and then to all of us here whether we need to and whether this further discussion must be based on facts or on artificially created structures and concepts, and that the Croatian public must know. And what is the role of the Parliament? Are we here to stand in anybody's side and to opt for opinions and attitudes of any and whose interest groups or are we here to solve these problems on an institutional level?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30721	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30722	Thank you. So I think colleagues that you've just set up what's really the key and the problem that we're struggling on here or what we're trying to achieve with these or some other topics that are being put on the agenda. Today it's been said here by some MPs, so it's already... You're supposed to go on your own. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's something I don't organically agree with. It's a matter of fact, it's a matter of reality because it's easy to agree to this pattern, then it's a matter of manipulation and media spins to eliminate anyone from cultural, economic, political life. And this particular thesis we've heard here before, we're talking to the public and the public needs to know. It's a clear thing that the public needs to know, but the public needs to know the facts, not the images, not the ideas, not the spins, not something that simply creates an artificial reality. Unfortunately, it's one spirit of time, it's one technology of information, of communication that goes ahead of reality and where we haven't been able to define the standards and criteria of such behavior. Take me said I also think in this House when we set man's dignity as a fundamental value and when we follow that value with all the laws that someone can't say I think or person A is a criminal, plagiarist, thief or I don't know what. If such criteria, such standards would set one good part not only in the media but the people in this Assembly would have nothing to say and say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30723	Thank you. Another replica of the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30724	Thank you. Mr. Vice President! I'll start at the end of your presentation and I think the proposal you made is not good but great. And I suggest that you formulate it into the conclusion that I am sure you will get the support of my club, which is that the Croatian Parliament draws a conclusion that obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to obtain software Turnitin for every university, for every high school in the Republic of Croatia. I think if anything else this will be good, at least one good step out of today's debate. But that aside, I studied a little bit of your biography, which is actually much more impressive, and here I apologize for just taking it today than I personally believed, and I'm sure many of my colleagues too. In your scientific career, you've published a series of books, prepared a series of collections, I think I've come across a number, I apologize if I'm wrong, that you've published more than 150 articles and scientific papers. Your scientific career spans for almost 50 years. Now I ask you a very simple question. Can I use these books, collections and scientific papers without citing you as an author? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30725	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30726	I'm glad, I put out this proposal and I hope everyone backs it, so one such software, I can't propagate that software, but I set it up as an example that this Turnitine, that one on 30 million students, is used by 15 thousand institutions. So Carnet that, to get the government to Carnet that the entire academic community and all college students can use it. I am sorry that you did not accept that other proposal and this article of the Ethics Code, Article 8, enter the Ethics Code of the Croatian Parliament and see if we will respect the standards of political correctness or avoidance of counterfeits etc. That's one thing. On the other hand, as far as books and this is concerned here is the question of what is being used, you know, if we take the thesis that one idea is being talked about, which has been in place for 200 years in the world about world peace, so different people implement it and use it, so we say now someone 200 years after Kant or Hegel who developed it to advocate it, then it's a question of who they're plagiarizing and who's plagiarizing. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm being a little cynical right now, and there's always one correct thing about quoting, I just think if we wanted to be cynical like my colleagues, Bauka, I think it would be a far bigger problem that we have too few of those who write and quote and who read at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30727	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30728	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here I join this initiative to get this software. I'm actually surprised why the Zagreb University didn't just get it. Maybe I know the answer. The University of Rijeka is two years old. It was first in Croatia. In the first year of administration, there was about 14% of students, and last year it decreased to 6%, showing to what extent it was useful. I'd like to ask you two questions, Professor Tudjman. Namely, you said our goal was to bring down the minister and discredit the government. No, I don't. You're wrong. Our goal is to enable the government to work normally and that the science and education portfolio has no minister who carries it significantly restricts it in successful work in the ministry. And you're a college man, so here's a question since you mentioned this 19-collar story. So in 2007, Mr Barisic held 19 colleges at 4 universities throughout Croatia, that's true. At four he taught active classes, and at 15 he was a carrier. But as a carrier, he had some obligations. He broke definitely his standard even though he claimed it was 310 norm hours of teaching, and that the prescribed norm for a regular professor was 300 norm hours. But what's wrong with Mr. Barisic to be gentle, he doesn't keep telling the truth. Why? So we all know that Mr. Barisic and the Institute of Philosophy has 70% working time and with the University of Split 30%. So, if the norm is for a 100%-time professor for 300 hours, how much is Professor Tudjman norm for a professor with 30% working time? I'll answer you myself. That's 100 norms of hours. So, after all, Mr. Barisic has crossed the standard three times, and Mr.... Now he's on board. [[You don't understand.]] [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] For the education strategy as a reward to defend it. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] Here's a non-inhibiting sequence that Mr. Barisic is working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30729	Comrade Jovanovic, I am asking you to hold on to the... Dr. Sc. Željko Jovanovic: Excuse me/... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30730	I can replicate, or I'm talking about what you put in this interpretation. You are now drawing some new arguments away from what you wrote because what you wrote is the way you wrote unsustainable. These norms have nothing to do with this interpretation for hours. On the other hand, in the media in 2008, it said that it held 19 cathedrals in Split, and in this answer you were already told that those who had spoken then do not have, do not distinguish between the cathedral and the colleges. So when, the moment you put it back on, you write it again, then I can manifest myself. But we're just talking today about the text that you are, and I'm sorry, I don't know if you signed it, but which 45 MPs and MPs signed here. Therefore, if there is any other reason why Minister Barisic or Professor Barisic should be destroyed as minister, then go out with it as a valid reason and we can accept it. But not with arguments that simply don't hold water what the ordinary world would say. That's later said and there's no in this interpretation. Excuse me. Therefore, not now, this is one method – if we know that it is his fault, and we will give the arguments as long as it takes – this is no longer how it works today. Excuse me, it was a time when we all believed or at least some believed when the system was such that they imposed the tendency to justify the means. ... Facts that you did not specify in the interpretation [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what I'm talking about. [[Invader Jandroković: Professor...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30731	Professor Tudjman, thank you very much. Next replica, distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30732	Thank you very much. Dear Comrade Tudjman, you are a scientist. You have a very impressive career, you've written scientific papers and you know and you realize that whether it's a plagiarism or not you can only talk about one independent body. Neither you nor I because we have a conflict of interest. You defend, I attack, and I think it is right for Minister Barisic to step down. The history of the Ethics Commission in Croatia is the only measuring body that can assess whether this is a plagiarism or not. Let's go back to the Kurjak affair in 2006 which was then happening, the same story with plagiarists, the copying of parts of books, the whole chapters, and then the Commission was established, which made a very clear decision and then started the commission, and then the commission was silenced until 2011 to reactivate. But the commission is from this Parliament, so it's a legitimate body based on which certain consequences go. When a scientist, a professor, sees his consequences and will pass in the scientific community. Kurjak was discussed by the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zagreb. But when someone is in charge, then the decision of the commission is also a political decision and it is quite incorrect and something that is scandalous that the prime minister is deafening the need to implement the political decision of what the commission has made because it is about the official. It's not about a professor at medical school or anyone else, and there are other criteria here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30733	Thank you, thank you. Professor Tudjman's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30734	Look, a few things have been said here. First of all, thank you for this qualification of scientists. My problem is really that I don't have a consistency problem in terms of dignity because I don't think that as a politician I can have one criteria and as a scientist of others, it's simply a question of integrity and moral and intellectual that we have the same criteria all the time and that's why I don't think that we're in conflict if I'm talking about something because, besides that, you can probably conclude from my previous performances, I've never gone to a man but I've gone to the scale of things and today I'm talking about the scale of things because I haven't shared qualifications. On the other hand, the issue of this commission, the ethical commission, it simply fell apart, it was no longer consistent, it was reduced from nine members to five members and four said they would not participate in the instrumentisation of this commission, so that it is now all these other legal arguments here. Therefore, as an opposition in October, when this government was established, you announced that this commission would adopt a negative opinion and that people, part of the commission, reacted and said we would not participate in it. Therefore, this commission acted instrumentally by the opposition and that is something that is not good and that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30735	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30736	I thought there was a time when someone wanted to disqualify themselves, so the opinion and worker of the Zeljezara Sisak were sought. This tonight reminds me of that very time, and that's what I'm afraid of. Professor Tudjman, you said that misinformation is something that is very present today and that even the wars of the water are being disinfected, and they were being fought. The consequences of this are horrifying we are all aware of these facts so we are called upon to that Jewish proverb to save one life is to save as the fate of the whole world. We have a situation here tonight that we want to destroy one man at misinformation because there is no doubt anymore, there is no difference here what is a review article, which is a scientific article, and even when he read the definition of plagiarism, he did not say it was a transparent article but a scientific article. As you explain, in fact, the question of how to fight this logic that we just heard is that we have to have different standards at a time when we don't ask every man for the same moral standards and ethical standards if you want to. Well, he may be a professor, but he can't be a minister, and if it's not enough to realize that it's a pure political story, how to fight it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30737	Thank you. The answer to Professor Tudjman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30738	Perhaps those who did not know what it meant that Željezara Sisak banned, gave up printing, were then involved in the Praxie magazine of the 1970s because there was no court order, so the working class decided not to print that philosophical magazine anymore because it was political as it was called a course or as it was already called. As far as this other thesis is concerned today is actually not about information wars, the information war today is a dominant form of war. Military operations are conducted in the function of information operations and it is one doctrine of the 1990s that is constant and familiar, and that has already been said in this House and I think there will be much more to say. And how do you fight this? Look, that double standard, and here it's even said, that standing what's claimed for Professor Barisic they'd have a much simpler way, they could say listen to that man's plagiarizer, can't be a professor, can't act in the scientific community. You'd automatically fall for it as a minister. But it is known that it does not pass, that there is no material for it, that the academic community will not accept it and then goes to this political disqualification simply with these misinformations. I say, I repeat again if you have arguments, then we go with the right arguments that exist, and not with counterfeits or misinformations or tends to be something plagiaristic because someone who has commented on the primary authors, the primary sources are damaged, which can't even be a fact in madness.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30739	Next replica, distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30740	Dear colleague Tudjman, in your address on behalf of the club you characterised our request to vote or to question the confidence of Minister Pavi Barisic with passion and desire for power that overcomes reason and the very text of the same request as unfounded by facts. And then further in your presentation, in the need to defend Mr Barisic yourself, you open a topic which we did not mention in this text of the request, which means working or excessive Captain 450 hours a semester, and you say journalist Tanja Rudez apologized for the incorrect allegations that she accused the current minister Barisic of actually teaching much above the norm. That's not true, I don't know why you're trying to do what you're doing right now, or you're using alternative facts. Journalist Tanja Rudjež was sued twice by Mr Barisic and twice won the dispute, Mr Barisic lost it. And the third time journalist Tanja Rudez was sued by Mr Barisic, she apologized, but only if the article damaged his honour and reputation but continued to insist that all the facts were correct. I had to say it here, the truth for Mrs. Tanja Rudez never gave up on what she wrote, she apologized only for the fact that her mental pain produced what she wrote about Mr. Barisic but never questioned what she wrote because it was true.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30741	Thank you very much. Comrade Tudjman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30742	I still, the amount of forgetfulness is something that probably comes with age but I'm not 450 or 200, nor did I mention any captain. That's just what you've just introduced into this discussion to have something to say on this subject. The fact is that she is a journalist, not even a journalist's name I didn't mention because I don't think it's a place to mention it here, but as if I didn't even mention the names of those who Professor Barisic sued for whom the ethical commission said they violated the norms and standards of that ethical code. Therefore, and the journalist replied or apologized for what she wrote, which is that he was active in 19 different departments, and that is because of that apology then Professor Barisic withdrew the lawsuit. So the facts are still different than you want to interpret them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30743	Replicated colleague Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30744	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President! Professor Tudjman, you mentioned one of the professors' names in the debate after all... Josip Milat and you connected this to the context of whether this really is a scientific observation related to Professor Barisic or political. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, short answer maybe. A storm in the SDP by Split Professor Milat, pro-Brčić Kuljiš, will be responsible for supporting Minister Barisic. The city board of Split's SDP will discuss on Sunday the support provided by Science Minister Pavi Barisic, Professor Josip Milat and Professor Marita Brčić Kuljic of the Faculty of Science and International Co-operation of the Faculty of Philosophy in Split. They signed an open letter along with another hundred members of the academic community at a time when the SDP was in a hurry to pass the HNS in proposing to seek the recall of Minister Barisic. Many saw it as a party betrayal, former university dean Milat said, "I signed the letter as a professor and scientist and not as a member of the SDP." Professor, please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30745	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30746	Look, I mentioned here Professor Milata as the one who made the statement or signed a statement in 2008 that this was not about these 19 cathedrals mentioned in Split because it was about 5 single-semed colleges. On the other hand, I didn’t mention Professor Kuljish, who was if I wasn’t wrong about the reviewer of this book “ideal rule of the regiment” in which this article we are discussing today was published. Thus, it is nevertheless that these differences between scientists who clearly exist and they are obvious but cannot be potentiated in the way they are potentiated here and that the differences will remain in view of these scientific paradigms that dominate science, so one circle accepts one another, and there will be how things sharpen as much as possible, they are to some extent consistent with political options but are simply not unique or not standard criteria. And that's why it's a stretch of opposition for another reason, because the legitimate institutions of the system are discredited as irrelevant because there is someone who thinks differently from the university in Split, from the University of Zagreb, from the rectory choir. Not all these institutions must always be right but they are legitimate, we must respect them and the Croatian Parliament should respect them as such because if we go by this logic I have a group of scientists who are for me then we will simply never reach a society that will be able to be stable and develop systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30747	Time. Thank you. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30748	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Dear Mr. Tudjman, I find it unquestionable to the scientific, teaching and moral integrity of Professor Dr. Pave Barisic, and it is unfortunate that an orchestrated attack has been created, which is problematic because it is a failure or failure, and it is in a transparent article that has already been corrected in the first translation from English into Spanish. And since we've been talking here all day about what's not there, and that's plagiarism let's talk a little bit about what's in there, especially in the last 100 and a few days of work of this government, in the field of science and education. So we can also mention the following elements, 500 million kuna for 15 thousand scholarships, 150 million euros for vocational education, 165 million euros for higher education, nearly 10 million kuna for the continuation of the teacher's reform or popular curricula reform, which is a 100% increase compared to the previous year, an increase in salaries in the state and public sector, a growth base of 2+2+2% and a total of 6%, an increase in the basis for public servants from 5 thousand 108 to 5 thousand 211 kuna, the opening of the Blaž Tadjanovic area school in Pokkalje which schools, which sports halls. In addition, solving problems in Babina Greda, Expert Commission for the implementation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, etc. Thus, self-initiative moralization on the left raises doubts about the morals of the moralizer, which was recently written by academic Radman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30749	Thank you. The answer to the line, dear colleague Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, that's exactly what should be avoided in such discussions to sort out whether someone is ours or not, and that's the logic where they're simply looking for spins and discreditions on some kind of mistake or something that's as irrelevant as the prime minister used to say. We had an obvious, direct answer to your question with I think it was a colleague Orsat Miljanic when it was a copyright debate or this law he said – so the law is good, but we are against the minister so we will either be abstention or we will vote against it. It's just immature, unserious. Thus, on the occasion that it goes “better to ruin all things to the neighbor than to agree with him. ” And that's just the one mentality that just doesn't fit this time anymore, and it's reliant, it has its background, its foundation, it's important, it's not an important fact, it's not an important reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30751	Thank you. Before the next replica, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30752	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague named Tudjman injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament when he spoke about the opposition's behaviour in the vote on the law and qualified us as adolescents and a whole series of other things he stated. It is offensive, and besides that it is not true because in the Committee's work the opposition was very constructive. So, at the vote on the law, we were abstentions. So, please nice, these are legitimate procedures in the Croatian Parliament. In this there is nothing juvenile and I think at the end-end it is offensive in this way to discuss colleagues and colleagues for something that ultimately-ends is part of normal standard parliamentary practice. Those of you who have been here for a long time should know better than anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30753	A colleague, Glavasevic, if it were a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then I would probably have to constantly warn almost all of your MPs that they are breaking the Rules of Procedure. But since I don't do it with your MPs and MPs, then normally I won't do it in this case either. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Now it's your turn for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in your discussion, you actually mentioned two elements that I would like to look back at in the replica. The first moment is related to the software you mentioned and, in fact, on the trail of what my colleague Jovanovic and my colleague, Grbin, I would like to support this initiative. So I believe that in some conclusion that we could all suggest from here, we would all agree that this is a very good way to determine in the future everything and to prevent all of these dubious things that we are currently about. And among other things, why don't we do that if we do, here's a colleague Jovanovic saying that this software exists in Rijeka, it's a small thing to actually check through the release of counterpart Barisic, Mr. Minister Barisic, whether there are troublesome places or not? The second element I wanted to look back on is the part where you talk about dignity here. Now you're calling for some dignity that you only seem to do when it suits you. I remember in the previous 4 now almost 5 years of many situations in the Croatian Parliament where your colleagues and colleagues, and you yourself did not care much about the dignity of those of us who are now on this side. So that's one of the selective criteria that I'm sorry you didn't think of in some previous situations. But I'd like to say, no one here speaks of Pava Barisic as a human, as a human being and denigorizes him that way. We're talking about those elements that we consider controversial professionally. So, son of an ira et studio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30755	The answer to the line, dear colleague Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30756	First fellow, when you say you remember what happened 4, 5 years ago, you attribute to me that I've been in the Parliament for a long time, then we're the same duration in this House because I've never been before, but since 2011. That's one thing. Secondly, I'm glad you support this, but I'm saying, I said by then when we go, that software will use a lot of things to surface. And third, when you claim to be me, I wasn't worried or I have double criteria for the dignity of MPs in the Parliament, then give at least one example to be convincing. Is that just what you do, the way you do, then it's insinuating. Therefore, I pray that we stick to some standards, and if you will, I can remember some discussions that I have called for, not for the first time today, but I don't know which time I said it, you have in the Constitution that man's dignity is fundamental value and I would be the first if you would agree to change the Penal Code and say that it is not acceptable in the media or in Parliament to call person A, B, C that plagiarist, that he is a criminal, that he is a thief and that if that court has not already said so before. But what's going on? No, our system isn't good, hence proof that someone is a criminal, a thief or something else is just because it wasn't meant to be. And that's the logic of forgiveness that doesn't lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30757	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished colleague Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30758	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, I think you have taken a very precise picture of the situation we have in the work of the sentence, and I quote: "The enemy environment has been created against Minister Barisic." The SDP counterparts have now been accused by Minister Barisic on the day of the government's presentation and then condemned through media space by calling him a plagiarist and today they want to punish him here in such a way as to be removed as minister. I just don't agree to that. Although the professional public is divided into whether or not it is plagiarism in this case, representatives of the SDP are on the verge of a struggle for Croatian society with high standards and so on. We took care of our children and went on a witch hunt. I wonder what kind of message we send to the kids if we convict someone for the label they've been glued to him without really proving he's guilty of what he's accused of and eventually punishing him. I think it would be much more meaningful if a colleague from the SDP had used this kind of energy to hack against Minister Barisic for the much bigger problems that we have in society and that we could discuss here and that plague our citizens rather than treat that Roman sentiment of "cruise and games". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30759	Thank you. The answer to the line, dear colleague Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, buddy, I actually have to fix what you said. I didn't say that, not my finding that they created an enemy environment etc. how this is going, rather than the conclusion of this Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education, this parliamentary committee calling on this committee in the second part of its findings or to respond to Professor Barisic's application against four other persons who simply acted past Article 5. The ethical code of the same committee and the opposition to interpretation without, there is no problem in reproduceing this hostile environment, although in the formal legal opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education is not valid because it has failed, the Committee has failed to meet or accept the minutes which, in that procedure, are safeguarding or respecting the protection of confidential data, the adoption of the minutes is the last point in this. Apparently, members of the co-signatures of this proposal for the impeachment of Professor Barisic, or Minister Barisic, did not care at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30761	And the last replica, dear colleague Angelko Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30762	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Comrade Tudjman, in this debate you have touched scientific dishonesty and misinformation and counterfeiting but also abuses and political dishonesty and inaccuracy. There is a saying in the north that it is not only important what is said but also who says it, so we have a case of a former science minister who signed a co-financing agreement even though he knew he couldn't sign it, that he had no consent from the Ministry of Finance and not even the government of Zoran Milanovic. And now he is one of the louder ones in calling the current minister Barisic. I therefore agree with you that in the first place all of us should still have the dignity of each person, each of us, and only then of calling and throwing mud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30763	Thank you. He asked Minister Pavo Barisic for a word that he has as a representative of the government right to a five-minute exposure now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30764	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs! Let me just finish where I was interrupted in the presentation, which is that what's been following me since day one, and including this debate about myself, I'd call it a footnote affair, the plagiarism affair didn't distract me from doing my jobs that I've been entrusted with in the vault. I am grateful to the distinguished representative Majda Buric, who presented some of the achievements I have managed to achieve. I would just like to say that this has further strengthened me in my efforts to reform and modernise education, improve the system of science and technology, and that in this spirit I will continue to try to bring students to the heart of the education process, that I will especially take up the reputation and improvement of status in the society of teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, scientists and all employees in the overall educational process and science, because I believe that this is now the primary area in which I would ask that my work be judged while I am on this public duty, and we leave the discussion on academic issues for the bodies involved. Secondly, let it be said that the esteemed representative of the Voice has said something that is incorrect, I am obliged to correct. It's a matter of trial with a journalist. I'm not gonna use her name. I don't know how the esteemed representative knew, she had a need to say the name of that journalist. I'll just say that in the first degree, the journalist in question was sentenced to a fine that could be replaced by a 15-day sentence for the untruths that she brought up including the untrue 19-year-olds who keep repeating themselves here. And that's what Mr. Tudjman's esteemed representative said about the denial of this and my dean at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Split, it's Prof. Dr. Joseph Milat. So, the process did not lose Pavo Barisic responsibly, but the process was completed precisely by an apology of the journalist in the court. Therefore, it is a false allegation, and the apology does not also refer to the process of the untrues mentioned. They were confirmed, but it was only a question of whether the journalist concerned was going to slander the prosecutor in which case it was me. But it's just along the way. Let me say one more fact in this esteemed debate I'm hearing here. Here, in the name of the Living Wall Representatives Club, the representative showed a book that is half-empty. It's a book that two applicants in this process used to choose their scientific calling, to advance. It is not an offence, and it is called in the Sermon on the Mount, and those who read and listened - I see no log in my own eye, but I see a thorn in my neighbor's eye. I would just say and add to that my predecessor in the ministerial position the question, is the same Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education associated with him, why is the subject that raised the question of his responsibilities not put on the agenda, which is mine? So, that's something that says about the connection between what we were saying exactly why the question is why is the debate on the current president of the Ethics Committee yesterday which was the introduction to this where it enlightened his character and his profile is something that sheds light on today's debate. And let me say in the end that this particular case of mine is proof that anyone can be the victim of a media link in a political account. That's why I think it's in everyone's interest not to allow a violation of the law and bypassing the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30765	Thank you, Minister. We have six replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30766	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Barisic keeps telling lies. I'll remind you otherwise that when he was... for Bill Clinton in America, he wasn't because of what was going on in his office, but because he kept telling the truth. And we will see very quickly that Mr. Barisic in this case repeatedly repeats the false. As good a situation is at the university according to his work, here is an example of Croatian Studies. So, Mr. Barisic, how come you have not yet exercised administrative supervision of the legality of the work of the University of Zagreb due to illegal and counter-statual decisions regarding the conversion of Croatian studies and university centres into the university department. Are you postponing administrative surveillance because of the laundry of interest with the leadership of the University of Zagreb or when you will conduct administrative supervision and warn your friends from the pan of the European Union who are giving us lessons because of friends Boras, mentor Čovic and Ježić that they must adhere to the law? That's the question. Here you show how consistent you are and here you can see the sprawl of you and the whole group that is trying to destroy Croatian studies. That's how successful you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30767	The reply to the replica of Minister Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30768	Thank you very much. I think this is a connection between a respected representative in this context outside the debate. I wouldn't look back at him. I would, however, look back if the question of the Ethics Committee was to question its connection with the former president of the Ethics Committee. That's a much more important question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30769	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected colleague, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30770	So Mr. Minister forgot that he is in the assembly and is obliged to answer the questions asked by parliamentary representatives, not to turn the subject. So I've asked you a specific question. You have not responded why you do not exercise administrative supervision of the anti-static and illegal decisions of the University of Zagreb because you are protecting your interest group Boras, Čović, Ježić and the rest of the Pan-European Union which gives lessons to us in the Parliament. ... This Regulation shall enter [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30771	Yeah, you didn't say what article you were. But well, anyway, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. ... Why? [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] Well, the minister answered. I'm sorry, but you can't determine the way someone's gonna talk at the Assembly, it used to be, but it's not anymore. Now it's my dear colleague, Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30772	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor! Well, I don't think there's really any need for you to suit us much more. As you can see, the discussion went in one completely different direction. When it was revealed that you didn't plagiarize anything and that there was no plagiarism and it was a measure of things and it was the main content of the charge now started thinking and talking about everything and it's likely that colleagues from the opposition will now talk about how you don't do this or don't do this in school or you won't do this in school, etc., so it's my suggestion that it doesn't really make any sense at all anymore because it's crystal clear what was the main subject of their accusation and it's that you've been plagiarizing for weeks and it's been said plagiarist, plagiarizing and all, it's clear that neither is what plagiarized nor what's been prescribed. Therefore, in fact, since their accusation fell into the water as a fabricated political accusation, we will now be talking about everything and everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30773	There's no response to the replica, so let's move on to the next one, that's distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30774	Minister Barisic, Tanja Rudez journalist, a longtime scientific journalist in the Republic of Croatia, seems to me to be the only journalist who has received a prestigious award for the best European scientific journalist. Why am I saying that? It's a person you've never been, but you'd never let her write anything that wasn't good, very good research. She wrote about your colleagues, about 14 colleges, and you sued her twice, and you lost your litigation. You need to handle this with the court. The third time you sued her, she apologized to you, but as I said before, I only apologized to you because if the facts she presented, the content she wrote about caused you mental pain and violated your reputation, that's the first thing. Second, you stated here that you were the victim of a media lynch. You're no victim of a media link, no journalists invented the fact that you apologized to a scientist for using parts of his work and without giving a source, they just wrote what happened. The journalists didn't make up the idea that you signed the decisions that you gave scientific journals and gatherings to organizations and magazines where you cheered and dressed yesterday, they just wrote about it. They don't lie to journalists when they report a crisis at the Faculty of Philosophy that's been going on for about five, six months and your ministry, and you directly or indirectly participate in the deepening of this crisis. The journalists did not lie when they said you did not live up to the government's pre-election promises, which is that when the conditions for it are created, collective agreements and certain agreements will be respected and the basis of 6% will increase because you promised better standards to teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30775	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30776	You'd want to kill the messenger but you can't kill the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30777	Comrade Voter, I really ask you, you are the only one of the MPs and MPs who breaks through the persevering time. Okay, that's already routinely sorry, but please really stick to the line. Minister Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30778	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, I wouldn't be talking about other journalists right now, but here you asked for a respected journalist who received a prize for her writing on scientific topics. So, let me remind you. It was no longer a lawsuit, one was a lawsuit in one of the proceedings for an article. In this process, a respected journalist, after not wanting to publish a true claim that the dean of the college at the time, Mr Milat and I, or my lawyer, on my behalf, referred to seven facts in the complaint, or you like to tell lies, was in that article which found her convicted in the first proceedings. After the procedure went to a higher level, the district court fell once and twice, etc. But the same procedure ended in debate. These seven facts were not disputed, they were found, there was only a debate on whether or not she intended to slander, you know very well and ended the dispute nevertheless by respecting her apology withdrawing the suit, but the fact of all seven were standing and all were found in that court procedure and proven.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30779	Thank you. The fourth replica of the esteemed colleague Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30780	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Minister, you have more criteria, you have scientific criteria, you have political criteria here are the ruins. The scientific how many I followed is 99% for you but one famous Croatian philosopher sent a message that the truth did not doctor again in Belgrade, in Croatia, but in Vienna, and this is how it says for scientists or for philosophy or irrelevant to everyone else, saying, "Only one thing is originally written, 99 copy." Gentlemen, say gentlemen, did you not prescribe? You made it all up? I said a little before, and Tesla was taking some stuff from Edison, but he got bigger than Edison. But no one told him he was a plagiarizer. He's not even a Nobel laureate, we all know that. Therefore, you have the moral right to be firm in your chair because scientists have supported you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30781	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30782	I thank you for this and I use the opportunity to say that I am particularly proud of how the Academic Community has reacted in this case from the Rector's Assembly, which has made several times clearly indicated the deformations that occurred in the work of the Committee on Ethics of Science and Higher Education, the Rector's Assembly in 2 of its memos sent this Assembly a request to resolve membership and all the other 5 members who remained in the flock committee. In doing so, he pointed to a number of deformities that occurred in the work. And he was also very clear about my case by proving that the university thing had long been resolved and that it was completely behind me as a scientist. But not only the Rectors' choirs, but a lot of deans, a lot of professors, and even students, that touched me especially, which number of students you know will not easily put their signature behind whom he clearly stated behind his professor that it was, they wrote it about the media lynch. I'm just repeating what was said. Meanwhile, from the academic community of Split, Osijek, all over Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina 79 professors from Mostar have made their voice quite clear, as well as a number of individual support. It's something that gives me a special commitment to take up the academic community to get that place that belongs to it and our science to advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30783	Thank you. Replica number five, the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30784	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Minister, I may be one of the few in this assembly to thank for this fact that we are discussing today. Namely, I read the newspaper quite carefully this weekend and read the following fact – one company has signed over my professional work completely and has charged a million and 100 thousand kuna for it. I stayed a little surprised. I guess the USKOK or the State's Attorney's Office was doing reconnaissances because of all this situation that's happening and then asking itself if it's a million-and-a-million-dollar piece of work, so it would be very proud, or if it was a situation where this company would overwrite any work and charge for it. And that's a fact. I read it in the paper. I wasn't investigating. I guess in the process that will be led, I'll be called as a witness. But it's really a situation that happens with us, things like that happen, and we have different responsibilities. And a minister like yourself has a much greater responsibility than anyone else. And that responsibility has not only to its voters, but also to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the simple reason that when you become a minister of what is much greater and you are no longer the same, but it is your whole and past work, as well as the future work under a great deal of public and that word of responsibility that you in this exhibition need to take seriously. And here I am, in conclusion, before I run out of time, it's very interesting and I'm even thinking that I'm going into a lawsuit and I'm going to try some of the money that I could use for the campaign that I'm in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30785	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30786	Your Honor, Madam Representative, I thank you for this comment and question. So, in this case, it's quite clear that it's something else. First of all, by material effect, believe me, scientific papers don't make any profits, and on the other hand, I totally understand what you're talking about about copying and taking over other people's ideas, other people's parts. So, I accept my full responsibility and will always be against the practice of taking over other people's actions and plating. So, don't get the wrong interpretation of this. I argue, I have not plagiarized, I am not a plagiarizer, and I will take responsibility against such practices everywhere, and I fully agree with you, and if you need help in the case, I would be happy to advise you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30787	And the sixth replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, in the final part of your debate, you mentioned it, and then later you referred to the choice that you consider yourself a victim of a media link. I have to make it right for you. So you are currently subject to public interest manifested in the media interest. So I can understand that the media interest in the volume that you are currently feeling is extremely uncomfortable. I believe so. It really is on one human level. On the other hand, I'll repeat one of my earlier comments. So no one really attacked you as a man. If there were such comments, then they deserve an apology anyway. So, here it is clear that the metrics are being discussed, so some political moment is being discussed here about your credibility as a candidate for minister. On the other hand, here are the people who were sitting and sitting who were really the victims of the media lynch. Milanka Opacic was surrounded by police for nearly two years because of the death threats she was walking around with. Frad Matic, too. I'm physically assaulted three times. Once in front of your children for a media lynch. So it was a media lynch. I hope so and I don't want it to happen to you, on one truly human level I don't want you to. And it is our duty here if it happens to you to stand by your side. But it needs to be taken away from the fully justified public interest in the issues we are discussing here. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30789	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30790	Your Honor, I thank you for this and collegiate occupation, and I can say that I fully agree with you, and I feel compassion for all those who have experienced or experienced a media link, I condemn that, I find it totally inappropriate. I said one source. You'll find it in a letter of support from my students. On my web page, I have put many letters of support in which you will find this formulation. I quote: “The public is experiencing the academic community’s name and last name are people who call what happens to me a media link.” What did they experience it in? That, and it's very well discussed here, one academic issue has become the subject of political reckoning. We're both scientists. Imagine now the situation that the object that I was and that I remained if I had never been appointed to this duty public to whom I was appointed, probably something that was 5, 6 years ago would have remained a matter of procedure. University of Split and University of Zagreb solved etc. I'm appointed minister, a lot of complaints is required, it's out here, none of them are standing, then it's being asked who's going to be new. I'm literally saying at that point there was a lot of accusations, it wasn't. The then chairman of the board asks to be delivered and then colleagues, you know very well what is in the academic world, submit their accusations that become the subject of political reckoning. I say that responsibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30791	I thank you very much and we continue to discuss it further. It is next to the Club of HNS and HSU Representatives, distinguished counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I will say right at the beginning that we have absolutely no doubts about why we launched this initiative in the Assembly, and I will say why. So, what we should have done as an opposition after the measuring body chosen by this Croatian Parliament to rightly treat these kinds of issues as treated by this case made the decision it made. So as an opposition we didn't have, I would say not even a choice, but to raise the question of trust to the minister who, at the conclusion of that committee, was declared a plagiarizer. And now it is, so it's the first and most basic thing that happened here because today we've had a debate during these few hours, and especially since the Prime Minister, we've heard a lot of things here. If we had been in opposition before we were to launch this agenda in Parliament, we should have proposed to investigate it, I don't know, get deeper into the whole problem, see what some other ethical committees have been doing. We didn't need it, we didn't need anything because that board that the metrics brought us its saying. And today, of course, we're discussing it. So there's no reason for anyone on the side that's defending the minister right now or trying to justify what's actually trying to kill what's said in the words of the Ethics Committee that we seem to really be in some kind of twilight zone. I don't know what we're like as an opposition, what were we actually expected to do as an opposition after that? What particularly disappointed me today is that the prime minister in his defence, because I cannot call it otherwise, Mr Barisic minorized completely, completely minorized that I would even say no as such a decision of the Ethics Committee, and on the surface we have drawn two decisions from the Ethics Committees of the University of Zagreb and the University of Split, of which we know for one, who was part of this Ethics Committee, and we have absolutely reason to doubt that the people who decided whether the plagiarism was actually in conflict of interest, given that they were directly subordinated to the current minister, and then to the professor. And Zagreb also means this copy, which was handed to us by the prime minister in such a very theatrical way on that copy of a record. It is not clear, in fact, that the issue of the plagiarism of Minister Barisic is being addressed. He's listed there because he's obviously reported. But it is quite clear in what the rector Beliš and Mrs Vesnica Garasic said, who was then president of the Ethics Commission, that they did not discuss the subject of Mr Barisic's plagiarism. So these two things Mr. Plenkovic was based on today's defence of Mr. Barisic were absolutely missed. And for us at the HNS, there's absolutely no doubt. The moment the Committee's decision came, the Ethics Committee of this House should have resigned, and if you did not resign, or if you did not resign, Mr Plenkovic should have relieved you. Because there is no other body to which you should be called to consider a topic related to you. Now, all that would be possible and okay with what Mr. Plenkovic defended and all your colleagues here if you were, say, the Minister of Construction, don't be offended by Mrs. Taritash, but you're the Minister of Education and Science, and that's actually the question number one here. Because in the last month, you say that you are under a media link, and I will tell you that I have met these months and a few days on the street, in my city, in this City of Zagreb, countless teachers, teachers, students who have been appalled by your behaviour and the behaviour of the Government in relation to this problem. appalled because the professors told me countless: “What if we were to do in schools anyway it wasn’t easy to keep in schools a certain level both in excellence and in discipline? Who is going to impose on our children these standards when we can every time we want to force them to call that we have a head of the ministry that takes care of us a person who has been declared a plagiarizer from a metric body." That's the problem. I can't understand, I've been listening here for four hours of this debate, and I can't understand that you don't understand it and that you're defending the whole story by trying to minorize things that it's some kind of footnote. To be honest, I don't even know what this is about, nor do I care as a politician, nor do I care as a politician. The commission, or committee, who was in charge of saying whether or not it was, said it was. Who should we ask? Who should we communicate with to tell us whether or not it's plagiarism other than those bodies we chose? Or possibly to ask, some of the scientists called themselves, you know that they answered and explained their views. Some people think you're not, some people think you are. However, we had a body that said that we had a commission, a committee that said it was. And now in all that means our prime minister who, I'm sorry he's gone, said that you're not a plagiarizer, but he admitted that there was a mistake, that you made a mistake, that you made a mistake because you're there in some footnote something. He thinks it's a failure, and this commission thinks it's plagiarism. OK, you're not a plagiarizer, you're a slave with a mistake. But as minister of error, you can't be a minister of education. You can't be a slave with a mistake to be a minister of education on this subject it's the attitude of the HNS and HSU and colleagues of the SDP if I may speak for them, and I think that on their behalf, this kind of faulty defense, the inadequacy of the legal spin you tried to sell here during the afternoon is something that offends everyone, our entire school, education, school, science system and, of course, all of us who want our children, our young people to go to schools in which such things as this happened with you will not be tolerated. And that's why we won't let you accuse us here of being some kind of politician. We're not any politicians. We have launched your solution because you cannot be a moral vertical in the part where it should be in the place of the minister. Likewise, when Mr Plenkovic spoke of your mistake or failure, you must know that as a minister of education in such matters you have no right to do so. You're not the only one or the first minister whose trust has been discussed in this House. Some ministers are gone. I won't mention them. And we know why they left. Some have gone away in the past, I'm not talking about this mandate right now. So you need to know at a given time when you need to take responsibility. You'd have done as I said before, so you resigned after the Ethics Committee made the decision to relieve yourself first, so you wouldn't be under the media link, and I'm also telling you to resign now so you won't be under the media link tomorrow because you're the minister of education. And what you're being burdened with is in direct conflict with your function. So you can free yourself, both us and the Government of this burden and this problem, nicely withdraw and Mr. Plenkovic come with a new proposal from the minister which would not be the first, or the last time that happened in some government and I think you could possibly successfully continue with your scientific work or perhaps prove afterwards through some other bodies, perhaps European, worldly probably exist whether you are or are not a plagiarist or whether you are right or wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30793	Interestingly, the debate of a representative who said she understood nothing about the subject she was talking about caused ten replicas. So please, dear colleague Tudjman, the first to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30794	I think we should actually commend and approve that a colleague admitted that she didn't understand what this is all about. But at the very least, she asked what to do when the Committee reached such a conclusion as it did. At least it would be fair not to forge the conclusion that the Committee has made because you wrote in this proposal that the Committee has concluded that it is a behavior that is not acceptable from the person who acts as minister of science and education, so who is the person at the head of the resolution, etc. It's in your position, and there's no such finding in the Committee's opinion. So that's the fake behind you. The Committee’s opinion is different if you would like me to remind you that it is partly justified in the section relating to taking over part of the comment rather than some copyright, the original something that can be achieved or something that is subject to plagiarism. By the way, the Committee has condemned the behavior of creating the hostile academic environment that you're doing again. And what has been discredited by this Committee, which has been appointed as a secondary body, is why it has not shown why the previous two findings of the Ethics Committees and of Split and Zagreb are not credible or not acceptable, but were going on this third. As a second-degree body that has only been declared such that the Committee should have done so, and we haven't heard from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30795	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30796	Yeah, you're the vice president laughing. I really thought so. It is not necessary for me, as a parliamentary representative, to know the measure of where Mr Barisic, as a scientist, was wrong in some footnote whether he adequately presented it or not. If we have an established commission as a Parliament that will say whether or not it is, why should I, as a parliamentary representative, know that? For me, it's a measure of what the board that we've all chosen together will say to evaluate such things. ... Yes, said Mr. Tudjman. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You, all the time, so throughout this debate, have been trying to offend the opinion of the Committee to which this House, this High House, has given authority to speak or to consider such matters and such a problem. I really don't understand. And you are referring to various other sources and commissions that you give more legitimacy to than to this committee that we gave it to ourselves. I really don't understand it, during this whole debate or understand, you're trying to justify Mr Barisic's position, which is really very difficult, it was condemned by the whole public. I don't know, maybe we're walking some wrong, other streets, other squares, going to different places. Have you heard any insults, I'm telling you, our professors, our teachers, our teachers, the students who said what was going on here? What's going on here? How can you as a Parliament, as representatives of such matters tolerate? And you just all the time justifying it with what you're saying. I'm very sorry, you'll have really great damage especially among that population means students and students and professors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30797	Thank you very much. Second replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30798	Thank you. I've been listening to my colleague, and I can tell you that I agree with her observations. However, HDZ colleagues seem to disagree because as we see suffering from one as I would say, retrograde amnesias where they are simply bad things that were simply not remembered, denied them and, as all the penitents now claim in court until recently that they are not guilty, so they now claim not to be Minister Barisic plagiar, and he himself admitted it and apologized for what it means he inserted the other's work into his work without signing it. He also said that this is not just about the one thing that I would say to the example, that there are nine examples and I'm surprised that in such a function, means the Minister of Education this government is holding such a person. But what is even more controversial is that instead of dealing with himself and his fate, Minister Barisic, or his ministry, gives all kinds of guidance to schools that deunciate me as a representative. He's calling for schools to ban me from entering, etc. Which is why the minister has actually politicized the education system and I think it is no longer his place to be a minister and I call on him to resign and stop his disgrace and stop embarrassing the Ministry of Science and Education that he represents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30799	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30800	I'm about to say something about this replica of yours, and what I was going to say in the debate, but I skipped. So, through this attitude, the defence position and the argument of Mr Barisic's defence in general by the Prime Minister, and also by a colleague in their debates, we see that we are truly the diametrically opposite of Croatia, and we are thinking differently about what is important for Croatia. For us, the highest standards are important, we care about excellence, and somehow the HDZ whenever they come into some kind of situation to catch him with "hands in jam" then he has very good methods, excuses and minorization of everything that goes on to them and they have done it today. So they started to convince everyone together here that it was kind of a lame, little mistake that got in the way, so it sucks, so we made a whole mess of it, so it's the press's fault because they made a big deal out of it, so now Mr. Barisic is pathetic. I mean, it's a completely different concept of politics. That's what you wanted to tell me in this replica. Yes, I agree with you. Unfortunately, so is we, as long as we are here as parliamentary representatives, stick to some principles and what is right for us, and that is our responsibility to the citizens, we will defend our position which we consider to be right and that Croatia sees in the future as an excellent, fair, just state, not what is offered.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30801	Thank you. Dear counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic, third replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30802	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues Turina-Đurić, what disappoints me, what part of my colleague treats underestimously to one of the bodies we have appointed as Parliament, which we have given concrete responsibilities and which he has submitted to us a report that has been accepted – last time I said so – with one vote against. Now I've checked, no votes against. There were two abstentions, a colleague, Sincic, and a colleague, Glasovic. He keeps trying to say that this committee wasn't in charge, which is completely wrong. However, there is a implication here that the other two competent bodies have considered it before, which is wrong again. Therefore, the proposal to consider the case of potential plagiarists is addressed to the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, and only to the knowledge of the University of Zagreb and Split. And what I keep repeating and repeating and that, some do not want to hear, no question of university autonomy was questioned for the simple reason that Mr. Barisic was writing his works, copy paste-ing his works, making printing mistakes case footnote etc. worked 70% of his time at the Institute of Philosophy, which is not part of any university, and therefore university autonomy cannot be violated. And secondly, to say that this Committee has done something, that it has extended its powers illegally is not correct, because the report that we had on this page 3 correctly states that the Committee has extended the code in Article 7 to make its work more efficient and useful in order to raise ethics in the system of science and higher education. Otherwise, this letter that Mr Barisic was now saying is a harsh manipulation of students where the dean's position is sought and sent private mail to students to sign them. It was signed by only 68 students, and a petition for 3720 people's shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30803	Thank you. Answer. There's no answer. The next replica is the esteemed representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, actually what I have seen as perhaps the most important part of your debate and what I think should be underlined in the part where you spoke of the argument we have heard so far. It is, in fact, to draw even though fellow Pernar in his first debate was on the trail of that, a whole series of actually formal and informal logical errors. It's actually and Mr. Minister actually mentioned some of these names at one point. This would be what's called an argument ad repetitive, so it repeats some thesis even though it's been disproved many times. So we're all the argument that's been brought down here many times, but it keeps repeating itself like it hasn't been shot down. So we've all brought it out, and you, and it's certainly going to be done by a colleague of the Grbin, and a series of colleagues and colleagues in individual debates, in fact, about having to do it again, and again of those same arguments that, unfortunately, the other side simply doesn't want to respect. That I think you've noticed very well, and here, I can only agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30805	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished MPs Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30806	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Like this, says Mrs Turina-Djuric, we heard a lot of things today from the prime minister. We heard a very constructive and clear speech. I'm not going to say that we've heard anything-something from you, but I'm going to repeat what you said, and that's what I don't even know what this is about. So I'm curious what you were saying about it at all if you don't know what this is about? On the other hand, you mentioned and said in a saying that Mr. Barisic is a slave with a mistake. If someone had told that to a woman, it would have been called pure sexism and denomination. And on the other hand, we can call it misandria. I find it a terrible insult to tell a man a woman or a man that the goods I think are terrible and that it is unworthy of any statement, especially those in the Croatian Parliament. However, since you presented yourself as a moral vertical, I would have had one question, and the question concerns the head of culture in the Primorje-Gorski County of Valeri Juresic, otherwise a member of your party. Namely, although the Ministry of Administration has, after a solution to the Management Inspectorate in the past two years, cancelled the competition twice, or abolished its appointment in which Juresic was elected, he is still in the SDP of the Primorje-Gorski County at the head office today. Mr. Juresic graduated in 2013, and the county head's post was wanted for 5 years of work experience in the relevant jobs he did not have. So please, here's because you're talking about morale to comment on my case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30807	Before I answer, I will ask for an address from the esteemed representative Glavasevic for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the point of injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague injured Article 232. Rules of Procedure on the subject. So the relevance of this last part of its exposure is completely unrelated to the topic that is being discussed here today. And besides, it's not clear since she addressed her colleague Turina-Djuric, who is from the HNS, and she mentioned that the man she's talking about is from the SDP, so there's the same thing. ... Then my colleague got confused. [[The intruder doesn't understand. .../]] But here, again, the relevance to the subject is unclear. 232. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30809	Since so many irrelevant things have been mentioned today, I feel that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed. Here are my colleagues Turina-Đurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30810	Let me start at the end. So, fellow Buric, I think that countless of your colleagues, I could do as you now say for Mr. Juresic, tell me that, tell me a story that he is not busy according to his qualifications or perhaps a work internship, I suppose you should ask Mayor Komadin, not me here in the Croatian Parliament. And on that basis, the two of us could probably, or I could mention to you not one, but a hundred and a HDZ man who worked somewhere with or without professional training with a job and no job here, so I think you've been absolutely missed this. What I said I didn't know what this was about, I already explained it. I think the first replica was this one. I don't need to know what this is about. I do not need to know the measure of that footnote or explanation in the article why it is set. Why should I, as a parliamentary representative, know that? This was discussed by the Ethics Committee, which reached its conclusion. And I, as a parliamentary representative who has the responsibility to act according to the conclusion of the commission which is the body we have chosen, am acting. I don't know why I should know the scale of Mr. Barisic's scientific work in this case. I absolutely don't think so. It's a mistake stuff. I must say, I've spoken figuratively. And if it was Minister Barisic's fault, here's my apology. In fact, Mr Plenkovic defended him all the time in a way that he said it was a small failure and a certain mistake, not a plagiarist, so I just wanted to say it figuratively. I'll repeat, so Mr. Barisic is not a plagiarizer then, I guess that's a mistake, that's actually what your prime minister said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30811	Thank you. I would now like to pray for the next line, which is the distinguished representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30812	Thank you very much. Comrade Hope, fatigue sometimes does its part. We need to be aware that this is going directly on HRT 4 and that we need to know what we're talking about because this was really an academic debate. You've been preparing for this level of debate for three months. It was ups and downs, some connections, some experiences. We heard a lot in that debate. And really then she had the highlight of that middle part at the end when you found out that you didn't really know anything about it and that you didn't even have to know, that it was enough that someone told you that someone was something and then you accepted it and you all cried out the man was a plagiarizer, the man was a plagiarizer. And now that I compare it to what you said that you met in Zagreb at ten students, professors, various people, and you told everyone what you just said here. Well, of course these people probably think the same thing you do? They don't know anything, but someone told them something was wrong, that a man must have plagiarized something, and then everybody, here's the public getting interested and we're arguing. I mean really beneath every level of debate for one party that put itself at the head of this interpretation. As far as I can tell, the SDPs are attached to this interpellation initiated by the HNS. And after three months of debate, you here debate this way that you don't know anything and that you don't need to know anything to bring a relevant court. And you're asking for it from other agents. Unlike you, we're trying to convince you with facts, arguments as much as you like or don't like them. So if you don't know anything, try to learn something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30813	The answer of the distinguished representative Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30814	I'm still standing there and I said it on two, three occasions already, and I'm standing here to say that the requirement for valorisation of the part of Mr Barisic came from where he came from. He came to the Committee or the Committee, and the Committee reached its conclusion. I am here a parliamentary representative who voted for this committee to make decisions that are me and you instead of all of us. And after making a decision and showing it to this Croatian Parliament, these representatives are obliged to treat it. It's my opinion, and I explained it in my debate, and you can think about whatever you want. And that's true, most of it, I won't say 100% one through one, that most of the people I've met who come from the education system of professors, teachers are appalled that we've been discussing for so long the position of the Minister for whom the Ethics Commission is a plagiarist because they think first of all about these young people who have to work with them, who have to set certain standards and are actually afraid of how these standards will be implemented among these young people if they have an example in which we as a policy, as a responsible policy, we behave as we behave. And here is the prime minister today two, three hours defending that position by me very badly justified. But all right, you probably think it's very good, these in the middle here seem to think nothing of it, and we think it's bad. That's where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30815	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Blessed Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30816	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. Yeah, you said you didn't understand what this was about, but unlike your colleagues, I'll tell you what we should do then. I don't believe just one person who was told here enough yesterday through a discussion about another subject. Try to trust a rectorial choir, try to trust some other academics, professors, scientists, or if you won't suspect them to be someone's, so try to trust respected SDP scientists Professor Emeritus Josip Milat, Professor Mariti Brcic, etc., etc. Try to trust these respected scientists only members of the SDP if you won't believe it. And one more thing, you said here that you are still walking some major trails around Croatia and that you do not see Croatia the way we see it. And I'll tell you what I expected of you as chairman of the Committee on Family and Youth back a month ago. I expected you to call at least the Committee on Family and Youth and discuss the current affair that was in public at the moment, and we are so reluctant not to hurt anyone after the SDP break he asked not to ask. This is what your Croatia is about, which you in some way walk on a higher level, as you yourself said in your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30817	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30818	I'll just answer briefly, so I as Parliament's representative, my club, my colleagues trust the Ethics Committee this House voted, which this House has proposed, voted to give him confidence to do the job, and you trust everyone else. What can I say to you? Let's get that board I mean simply delete and say we don't need it and we haven't even had it in a while, then we finally reintroduced it and then we gave that committee to do its job and then when that board said something, then we said that it was all wrong because we have other opinions. Look, your opinion against mine and it's so yours against ours that's how it is and we can now throw ourselves forever. I was just trying to simplify the whole procedure all that happened in that whole situation around this case. And I said some things that I think we could prevent and not come to all of this at all because I believe that of course you care very much about your colleague and that you like the man, which doesn't mean that I don't know him well, which doesn't mean that I might have liked him better to know him. But it has nothing to do with his position as minister. He is a minister and must take responsibility for such situations as may be yet, not the same, but let's say potentially some new situations like any politician who assumes the duties of the minister or of the officials in some way has. And the fact that the public is going to ask him and that we're all going to ask him, that's something perfectly normal. Today, the whole discussion of Mr Plenkovic was going about it, and how dare you even ask such things and do what I think makes the democratic state scary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30819	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30820	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Turina Đuric, it is really inadmissible to tell the minister that the goods are wrong. To answer one reply, you apologized to repeat to the end that the slave was a mistake. You were loved by someone to tell you that you were a rep with a mistake when you were so confident about this speaker you said you didn't know anything about how you didn't understand. Four hours of this discussion is under discussion, and you don't understand what this footnote is and all of your exposure was based on the opinion of the board. Do you know that it was a furry body, that it consisted of all five scientists who were far from philosophy, and that a relevant assessment could be given by scientists who didn't know the exact subject enough? In fact, so many times today's spoken plagiarism, plagiarization, plagiarism and all these days, we come to what is really said a hundred times a publicly told lie has become true for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30821	The answer of the distinguished representative Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30822	I'm gonna do it one more time, even though this is what I think we're already really boring. Everyone today in defense of this was more important than the opinion of the committee this House has chosen. Why is that? I don't know. Except that he's a piece of shit. It could have been how it was. We could've said he wasn't here at all. It won't even decide. We could have done anything. But now it is called that this committee does not have the legitimacy to make decisions and prove quite the opposite of what the Committee has said with some other evidence completely beyond that, I do not think there is an argument on your part. That's my opinion. And I'm going to apologize again if I have to, so I'm really in that figure as it is, I'm going to repeat that Mr. Plenkovic has so introduced you, and I'm just figuratively expressing myself. You're not a plagiarizer to him, but you're the second thing I'm not gonna say right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30823	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30824	Well, here's a colleague of Turina Đurić and I have managed to entangle you, but I'll say, a little bit even excitate this figure or not by this statement of goods with error. In fact, during this afternoon's reference, someone referred to the writing of Professor Mirjana Kasapovic and one of her articles, which therefore touches plagiarization and immoral activities in the academic community. I usually like Professor Kasapović and I like to read her, especially her column in the Evening List, but also some of her other books. I had in my hand one of its polemics, which was published in the journal Political Thought, and it was about its reference to the book “Democracy and dictatorship, political transition in Croatia and Southeast Europe” in which Prof. In this book, therefore, Kasapovic points out the lack of a clear methodical-analytic approach, which ultimately also causes a factual inaccuracy, therefore, a material error in the book. Then, the teacher warns of the scarce reference literature based mainly on the superficial texts of some American magazines, then the lack of technical specificity of the book in such a way that not all the data are listed when and where the original texts that make up, therefore, five discussions that make up the content of this book. Finally, the teacher stresses that there is no complete data on quoting in parts of the texts of other authors on pages 33, 39, 41, 61, 69, 87, 90, 109, 142, 180 and so on. The author of the book is one of the former government members of Zoran Milanovic with you in the coalition. It's specifically about the former foreign minister. And I'm curious, therefore, about your position after this of ministers as a slave of error and moralizing ministers in their positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30825	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30826	So regarding the opinion of Prof. Dr. Mirjana Kasapović, related to the work of Ms. Dr. Vesne Pusic, clean views, mutual views of scientists, and you know the works of other scientists. And Mrs. Kasapovic made her point, and I don't know about the traces of all that went in the direction that was ever explored or that it was necessary to investigate that it was...... Well, I recommend that you put it in the process if you think so, and I don't think it's a good idea for me to defend Mrs. Vesna Pusic since she's not here. [[The intruder doesn't understand. .../]] So when she's here, you ask her nicely directly in some debate. But I must warn that this is not about Ms. Kasapovic's accusation, but rather about the opinion or her reference to Mrs. Pusic's action which she did not later put into some procedure, which does not mean that she will not or will not, so it will be proved in some place where it should be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30827	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterparts Turina-Đuric, I can even agree with you that the MP does not have to be fully aware of the scale when he discusses in the Assembly. It is the right of an advocate to speak, to discuss, and even if he is not familiar with the subject of what is being said. But I must warn you that at the moment you said that you weren't just a representative. You were, you spoke on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club. There, therefore, becomes the responsibility of MPs when he speaks on behalf of his party to get acquainted with what he is talking about more when the club is also proposing and seeks the recall of Minister Barisic. The public gets the impression, and especially here amongst us who have heard that not you as a representative, but that the CNS has no idea what he's talking about because he didn't get into the metrics. You've been exposed on behalf of the club. You weren't an independent representative who could once have the right to not know the whole thing. But when you say that on behalf of the Club, who is also a promoter and is looking for not a very small thing, but for the impeachment of a minister of the Croatian government, then that representative does not and cannot be drawn from not being familiar. Because it basically derogates absolutely what's written there. If we're just saying that you don't know about the metrics, then you should know the following, which is that the body you've been calling for all along because you don't know, and that body knows, it's the body itself who authorized itself, and that's why it didn't get the authority of this House to solve in the second degree. That'll show the Constitutional Court. This will be proved by the Constitutional Court and allow me to keep it until the end, Mr. Jovanovic, I have never spoken to you. Thus, the body called itself second-degree bodies so that it could judge the authorities that are the only authorities, which are the bodies of the university and thereby severely disrupt the autonomy of the university. If we're talking about university autonomy And that's what I end up with, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] My colleague Jovanovic, I have written down on this particular topic and I have fought for this autonomy that he would now harshly violate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30829	Thank you. Here we will hear the answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30830	Do you really think we're not like a club, so we personally tried, tried, and actually knew more than what we could get through some kind of formal communication channels and about this topic? But since you are at all in the debates that argue that Mr Barisic is not guilty or that he should not be voted for, you are, in fact, always catching up with some other arguments and other evidence that is far less important to me than what parliamentary deputies should call for, which is the opinion of the Assembly committee. And that's why I said I don't need to know anything, and I don't know anything, and I don't need to know if I have an Ethics Committee who's given his judgment on this matter, and we've authorized him to do it, and I've made my position quite clear. So what would this debate mean now? Questioning the Committee's position that we have authorized. Well, I think we can do that. That's what you've been doing today, but I don't think it's necessary to do it. We had a clear opinion, a clear attitude. After that, we conducted a procedure that I only think is correct after what the Ethics Committee said. Everything else would be wrong, everything else would be running away from responsibility and running away from the truth. And today we have this debate. You have your own arguments. We're making our arguments. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30831	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30832	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Parliament, Parliament is not a court. Parliament, therefore, does not determine someone's guilt. We don't have a lawsuit or a lawsuit. We are not bound by a particular document that is before us, but are bound by the question of the political responsibility of an individual who acts as a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because that is precisely the subject of this debate, which is a matter of trust to a member of the Government. And it is obvious that we do not trust him with what is our right and that you trust him. Besides, if you didn't trust him, you wouldn't have chosen him as a minister. They wouldn't even choose him as a minister when we warned you that a large part of the information contained in our proposal. Much of it, not all of it, because at the moment when we submitted our request, we had no idea that in the Ministry of Science and Education one State Secretary would be appointed who would already be in the first public appearance before which almost no one had heard of him speaking such discriminatory words that speak that Croatia below is the average result of the... research product of the fact that the statistics included children with special needs and national minorities. So that's usually one of the reasons why we're looking for the Minister's recall, because the minister didn't respond adequately to this kind of speech. This speech is discriminatory. I don't think there's anyone in this house who doesn't agree with that claim. This is discrimination. Discrimination with the basis of the state of the person, therefore, when we talk about special needs and discrimination from the basis of nationality. Such discrimination borders, and I'll let every single person decide whether or not it crosses that line, with a hate speech. A minister who has not sanctioned such a State Secretary or who has not proposed sanctioning such a State Secretary in the only possible way, which is a resolution, accepts such action. Because every other punishment is that classic pat on the head and wave your finger at the cry "ay, don't do that" anymore. The second thing, and yet after the minister took office, the minister provided himself and his own financial resources in the first few days. That's why we immediately made it clear, we reported it to the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest. Now, there's a depression, but it's very closely related to the subject. You have repeatedly questioned the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education during the debate today. You differentiated them, you called them skewers, etc. It is interesting, just a few days ago, you had almost the same rhetoric when the Committee on Conflict of Interest concluded that there are elements to initiate proceedings against your second official, member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as many vice-presidents as possible, Ms. Martina Dalic. When you don't like the attitude of a body, what do you do? You're reaching for diphtheria. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in at least two cases after the entry into office of Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Honored counterpart Barisic did things each individual deserves to be resolved. So, guessing someone's private interests at the expense of the public. And secondly, discriminatory claims that he did not sanction. Command responsibility. Dear Minister, I'll remind you that, unfortunately, in the case of officials from the SDP and HDZ, the HNS has already decided on the situation you've been in. And in all situations, the conclusion was that it was a conflict of interest. However, what is the difference in these situations compared to yours? In each of these situations, and in the case of Minister Violic, and in the case of Minister Varga, the Commission said this was about new situations that were not foreseen by law and on these examples was a practice. That's when the colleagues who defended you today grabbed those ministers in the government. Today, when you're also being burdened, it's just fine. Now, let's go to what might be called your past sins. I will return to the replica that I had on your exhibit, which was the situation in Germany from 2011 and 2013, which concerned the German Minister of Defence then... or then the Minister of Education 2013. ... I thank my colleague Kovac who corrected me and asked if the papers or their doctoral dissertation would have been analysed if those persons had not become ministers in the government? No, you wouldn't. In the case of the Minister of Education, her work was analyzed 33 years after she was doctored. If she hadn't become a minister of education, no one would have gone to analyze that work. Now, let's take the next step in analysing these situations that are extremely similar to these Croatians. Both the plagiarism issue came from a source that would be fully differentiated in Croatia in Croatia. One was a leftist note, and in the other case it was an Internet blog. But in Germany, the question of the source, the question of the outcome of the claim does not matter as long as the claim is correct. It's in Croatia. In Croatia, we do not wonder if anyone has committed an act, but who points to it. And yes, one more thing. A beautiful analogy I found when I read about the case... You know what the defense was in his case, why he's not a plagiarizer and why shouldn't he back down? They said it was a mistake. It was a mistake. Is that familiar to you from somewhere? Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are politicians. We're politicians, that's what we live on, that's our job. Our responsibility is much wider than that of a criminal or that of a citizen. Our responsibility is political. The Minister of Science and Education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia must be a person whose honesty is especially when it is a scientist and especially when it comes to scientific honesty must be unquestionable. The Minister of Science and Education cannot have such a stigma that he is accused of being a plagiarist. It seems to me that recently in the magazine... in one of the most quoted magazines in the world of science after many years again mentioned Croatia. By what? Minister, by the fact that you're being prosecuted for plagiarizing your work. You're the reason we're back on the wallpaper. You're being talked about. You're talking about a mistake. And I'm going to finish this exhibit, with the same question that I raised to my esteemed colleague Tudjman, but he didn't decidately answer me. Dear Ministers, if I were, for example, preparing a seminar or a degree's work or something like that, using your scientific work and not quoting it, would I graduate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30833	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30834	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Grbin, at the very beginning of this debate you were actually talking about trust and you're right. Trust is indeed one of the key words in this discussion. The trust parliamentary representatives here have in Minister Barisic. The trust that citizens have in his ability to lead the education portfolio. The trust of students and students above all of them, and then teachers and scientists in it as a model after all as a person who has this academic legitimacy from which he draws political legitimacy. Trust is something that if Minister Barisic remains, he will have to work hard to win back and prove at all these addresses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30835	Thank you very much. The answer of the honourable representative. We don't have an answer. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30836	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms, you were talking about credibility. You mentioned German examples that are great for us. I want to know what you think we should bet on, should we predict how this story will end that we found out today that the University of Ausburg has launched an investigation into Barisic's doctoral dissertation, which is 80% of his previously published works in scientific journals in Croatia, and without any indication of it in his doctorate? What do you think Plenkovic will keep it after that if the Germans take away his doctorate? You mentioned Naicher, so probably Minister Barisic's life dream came true, ended up in Naicher.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30837	The answer to the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30838	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague if the University of Luxembourg finds that it is plagiarism, of course his doctoral dissertation will be annulled in that case. And I am convinced that if the Honorable Minister survives in so many ways, of course, don't survive, I apologize, take it as a threat or something, so if there is a vote of confidence that in that case, I believe that he will be willing to take his resignation and will not bring himself or ourselves, or us, or the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia into the situation that we have to go through this one more time. But now with an even greater shame on the one who comes to us from the Federal Republic of Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30839	The next replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow coat of arms you are one of those MPs who enters the metrics when they speak of the subject either in the name of the club, either individually. So I can't agree with you when you say the Parliament isn't a court. You're absolutely right about that. But then you fall into a trap of illogicality. You also acknowledge the foundation of what you have written and what you are asking to call off Minister Barisic is the practical verdict of the Ethics Commission, which was just appointed by the Parliament. So if the Parliament is not a court like you said, then neither can the Commission be a court and it must not be a court, because it is harshly intruding into the independence of the Croatian University. So in that part of it, it seems to me that you're not entirely in line when you say that we as advocates are not a court, and the body we choose should be tried. Because they reached a verdict here, on the basis of which you seek the impeachment of Minister Barisic. And when you implore to HDZ that when we do not like to be decided on by HDZ officials, then we call that body of the horse, or that it does not eventually recognize the things it decides on, I will remind you of what your Prime Minister said at the moment of the handover of power when Mr. Dolnjak's election as President of the Parliament failed, and when he said that from now on, the Parliament will call on Josip Leko the president in question. And when the Constitutional Court said no, this authority still has the President, he said, "The Constitutional Court is a political court that I hold nothing against anyway." Therefore, when you talk about how you evaluate one of the highest institutions, then you should be familiar with this statement by your president, the former president.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30841	Thank you. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You see about the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court decisions I used to be a little sharper, rougher, not to say more rude. I shouldn't have done it every time, but I did it. It's probably gonna be the way it's gonna be in the future. However, every time, but every time after that, I respected such a decision by the Constitutional Court because it was one to give a valuable judgment on the decision, and the other to implement it afterwards. Since you are withdrawing the analogy with the Constitutional Court which the note is also appointed by the Parliament and which is indeed a political body with great legal and judicial powers, but a political body, then recognise the powers of another political body if all the bodies appointed by the Croatian Parliament are political. So admit to them that they have first opinions and conclusions. But yeah, I'm standing by what I said. We do not assess Minister Barisic's academic career here, Minister Barisic. Not Dr. Pave Barisic's professor. I can't think of that at any point. We're assessing his political career. Whether his doctorate is plagiarism or not, I don't know and can't grade. I can't. This will be assessed by the one who has the right to do so, which is the University of Luxembourg Committee. But based on all his work and before and after he became minister, I have every right to assess whether he deserves my trust. In his particular case, it may be easier for me than it is for you, but I can honestly say, my trust was not, nor will it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30843	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30844	You mentioned the case of former Minister Andreja Zlatar Violic, who was reported and announced in some way by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests because a certain amount of funds was identified from the state budget through the Ministry of Culture to Zarez magazine, which she was one of the co-founders. And there's nothing controversial about it. She was actually in an eclectic conflict of interest. However, in December 2016, the Ministry of Science and Education awarded a little more than 14 thousand kuna to the Croatian Club... whose president was Mr Barisic until November 23rd. A little more than 23 thousand kuna to the Croatian bioethical society whose founder was Mr. Barisic. A little more than 22 thousand kuna to the Croatian Physical Society, whose Management Board is sitting in Mr. Glumčić. A little more than 68 thousand kunas to the Mathematical Physical List of which Mr. Glumcic is sitting in the Management Board and is published by the Physical Society. A little more than 47 thousand kunas to the magazine "Nearly" published by the Institute of Philosophy, whose editorial office is located, is Mr. Barisic, whose director was. A little more than 283 thousand kunas in the magazine “Fylosophy Research” whose editor is Mr. Covic, I believe that you know the name and last name. A little more than 405,000 kuna for another project for the magazine “Contracts”. Well, now I'm asking, if this isn't an eclectic conflict of interest in which the minister before he was allocating funds and his secretary or he signed decisions, he wasn't looking for the Committee, and he was supposed to ask for the opinion of the Commission, then I'm wondering what's the new definition of conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30845	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30846	I thank you colleagues and now you have shown what every official should do before he enters office, which is that you have studied the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. When there is a question of whether there is a conflict of interest somewhere, then the state official is obliged first to seek the opinion of the Commission and only after that to act. I'll give you an example of a graphic. The Honorable Minister participated in the organisation of a symposium in May 2016. The moment he became minister, the meeting had already taken place. The meeting's been held. But afterwards, he is giving support to a meeting he himself organised, which had already held. So if nothing else, the minimum courtesy would be if he had prepared a memo at that point, sent it to the Committee for a decision on conflict of interest, and then when he wrote that memo, he counted all the others he was giving money to, and asked if I could do it. If the Committee said it could, then none of us would have the right to say a. This is how the Committee has given way not only to himself, but also to the duty of the Minister of Science and Education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30847	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30848	Thank you, Chairman. So here we look into Mr Barisic's eyes and laugh, laughing at what counterpart Grbin says when it would be honesty in HDZ, or another phrase of benefit if there is honesty in HDZ. Well, Mr. Grbin, don't think that the party that pulled 24 million kunas from state-owned companies, spent them, ate them, drank them, and today refused to return them to show honesty and shame, and that the man who apparently meant it would admit that it was someone else's work. Signed as Yours [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Pernar. ...]] I don't think so, Mr. Rainer. [[Intruder Reiner: Gone From Theme...]] Thank you. And so, what I'm saying is that you think Mr. Barisic will sanction you, and that's Mr. My coat of arms a great illusion. They'll never do that. They'll cover each other till the end. It's like an organization that, according to the directive at one point, everyone regrets it, we're sorry, and the second they say, I don't remember anything, I'm not guilty. This is just one drop in the sea. This is one picture of Croatia's reality in which, as mentioned earlier, the Bear Dog was guilty. Because of two fete prosciuttos, you get fired. Well, here's the worker I think she was talking about, so it's just two feta prosciuttos, like Plenkovic used to tell us, so it's just one footnote. But as we can see, plagiarism is plagiarism, and this government only shows force on the poor. Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30849	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Miroslav Tudjman has come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30850	Mr. Vice-President, Article 238 was injured because MP Pernar slandered and insulted the entire party, all HDZ representatives themselves, and all those who elected HDZ representatives meant most of the electoral body because they chose, while avoiding responsibility for libel. When he is sued for slander, then here he whines in front of the Croatian Parliament and prays for four hours not to be stripped of his responsibility for slander. Therefore, it is such an inadmissible behavior that I think you should prevent it every time such collective accusations gives and accuses all of us. I don't consider myself a criminal or responsible for any dream. Thus, such a person in a decent society does not deserve to have coffee with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30851	Thank you. I warned my colleague Pernar anyway. So it seems like it's done. Now it's your turn for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30852	Thank you. I came to the end of what Mr. coat of arms was saying. The thesis that Stigmatization is sufficient reason for someone to resign I think it's something I said is in the spirit of time, but it's totally unacceptable because it's a way and method that you can disqualify anyone who doesn't fit you in politics, culture, science, economy and anywhere else. It's something that needs to be dealt with by the rules of conduct and the amendments to the relevant laws. On the other hand, the question of this is now being asked again a new reason as it turns out that they are unfounded that they are simply falsified arguments in this interpretation, is now coming out with new thesis, and one of these is that the dissertation is autoplagia, and then it does not want to be said that this standard was valid in Croatia, I do not know exactly until the 1970s and that this standard no longer applies in Croatia. So again, it tends to be that something that simply is a question of how it will work, and you have a statement now that has appeared in Germany, but you also have a statement and other statements that it is something that is regular at those universities. And besides, it's about the papers he reviewed and worked as far as I know Dr. Barisic's mentor. And yet on the question I have not answered, the review work here is not about the original scientific work but about the transparent work, and most of the articles in the encyclopaedia are review papers where they have no references, and they are constantly about the works and names and the thesis of other authors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30853	Thank you. The answer to the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30854	My dear colleague, you had your chance again, but you didn't answer my question, and the question was very simple. Do I dare when I do an article, work, graduate, master's degree, university, professional or so on that we don't speak doctorally using one of your numerous scientific papers and not quoting you? I'm not allowed to, but if I'm wrong, please correct me. As for the doctoral dissertation of the esteemed Minister Barisic, in the replica of my colleague Jovanovic, I have made it very, very clear and I am explicitly standing on it, none of us here are authorized to decide whether it is plagiarism or not is the only University of Afghanistan, and if it finds that it is plagiarism, I am deeply convinced that Minister Barisic will then spare all of us from the SDP and you from the HDZ, especially the Prime Minister of Mr Plenkovic's indignity and shame and embarrassment that he must go through such a debate again. I believe you agree with me on that, too. If the competent institution of the University of Augsburg or his competent body at the Faculty of Philosophy finds that it is plagiarism, I believe you will agree with me that the minister must resign without any doubt in that case. And now the last thing, the reasons why we're looking for a shift, is not to do with the stigmatization, but to plagiarize for which there's material evidence. Well, for God's sakes, the man was copying from Wikipedia without Francis Fukuyama's name being exactly copied, I guess he wasn't too careful about the radio ctrl C and clrl V was the first. Secondly, the issue of discriminatory speech by his closest associate who has not been sanctioned in an adequate manner. And thirdly, unfortunately we haven't been able to classify because it came out after we submitted the transfer request, the abuse of funds, the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30855	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that HSS on behalf of whom you should speak the esteemed Kresho Beljak. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. And we're moving on to an individual debate. First came the Honorable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30856	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates. Here we have been discussing here for 6.5 hours and the first thing I'm going to say is that I am determined to remove the possibility of any politicisation in this case, it was the prime minister's main... So he came and said this is about politics, it doesn't matter who the saint is now in front of us you'd accuse him and say with your finger he's guilty and driven him out of the government. So I want all of our citizens here who still have this case in front of their little screens to hear that this policy and politics in what Mr. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic thought had nothing to do with it. So we share the proposal according to certain standards that apply everywhere in a normal democratic, civilised world, if you want a European world where people when they make these failures go away. So in our request today and in the debate, you saw that there were a very large number of cases when people and for less than one thing left the government like Germany, the Hungarian president also resigned to do such a thing. Only in Croatia is the politicisation of Andrej Plenkovic, the only thing in Croatia is pointing the finger at an innocent man, only in Croatia can you not object to such things. Now, if politicisation by the SDP is something that the prime minister means, but how did the politicization get involved in it then scientists from dozens of them from around the world, Croatian scientists from America, England, Australia. Where's the conspiracy? What are they doing it for? Why don't they like Minister Barisic then? If the SDP wishes to replace HDZ Minister O.K. It can pass to someone who follows the politicization on a surface like this. But which is why Ivica Đikic, one of the most quoted, best Croatian scientists in the world, would do it. Why did he just pick on Mr. Secretary? And we're as a background, someone said today that we plagiarized Mr. Djikic, not because we wrote that he wrote, did and counted the analysis he made on January 17th 2017 means less than a month ago where he listed 9 cases, watch 9 cases, obviously has some software because it couldn't investigate which one he could use. And someone mentioned today, it seems to me here, that it wouldn't be bad for us to get it at all the Croatian universities so that we could control scientific works so that these things don't happen. So he probably found nine cases with that kind of software. And what his colleague Grbin said was not him, or he did not suspect and accuse Mr. Baresic of being a copy of the wikipedia paste in a hurry, but that is why he saw the wikipedia miswritten author's name and was also written in a particular paper by Minister Barisic. So I'm curious here why if you're already accusing us of politicizing why you didn't accuse Minister Barisic of defamation of Mr. Djikic? He doesn't have as Mr. Tudjman said here immunity, he can be accused of slander, these are very serious accusations of slander. And I'm sure Mr. Djikic, after signing this, is behind this. She would not be afraid to come to the Croatian court and answer these questions. Why didn't you press charges for slander if Mr. Djikic wrote that you plagiarized the text Stephen Schlesinger, unethically adopted the idea of Samuel P Huntington? Why didn't you, if you'd copied from wikipedia's particular stuff, here's 2, 3 cases, these are serious plagiarization charges. Why didn't you sue Mr. Djikic for libel and thus try to protect your dignity and then maybe you wouldn't have had these questions that Mr. Bacic here says that we're not a court, that the ethical commission is not a court? Although I don't know who's supposed to be judging if not the body that we've ordered him to do but then they'd avoid any suspicion that here you are unfoundedly accused. And if the court ruled, then you'd get a moral and some other satisfaction. So none of this has happened, but Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ and Mr Barisic are acting in a way, we're going to charge this today with political persecution, the SDP wants the HDZ Minister to resign, we're going to grow up to when we need to, 1, 1, tomorrow we're going to vote, and we're going to move on because we've won the election, we can do it. So I think it's very clear to everyone what happened here, I'm sure it's also clear to Croatian citizens because it wouldn't be, in this way expressed in public, the feeling of the people that the minister should resign. So I've already told you today that there are several polls where 90% of people say the minister has to resign. There would be no petitions to stop plagiarism in Croatia that were signed by thousands of people and started by 20, 30 of our scientists from around the world and from our universities. All this would not have been done if something had not been done unethical and what the minister had said and what the prime minister had stood as if he were firm behind being able to come to terms with the mistake, apologize and drive on. So there are a lot of things here that are unfortunately not clarified and that I think it's clear to people today who are looking at us that there's no politicization, that it's simply something that's in every democratic society, the European Union if you want a standard that can't go below it because of the implications that we've already heard, that the minister of education can't be the authority of children in elementary school and let alone scientists who go to colleges after all this has happened. And a little bit, I have to be honest with you, I've been distracted by this comparison where it calls for some blind battle with the shadows of Socrates. Because I said, this looks like HDZ's dark cave to me. So we can do whatever we want because we've won the election and light is power. And from the light you don't see out, and when you come out into the light she brings you back to the dark cave. So unfortunately we're acting in this situation and I'm asking everyone here in the assembly and those who will vote tomorrow to be guided by their conscience. I will still tell you that it bothers me that MOST has not given its position, not a single representative and I think it is very important to hear us citizens here who are following this debate that MOST is otherwise very active, here Mr. Bulj has now come out, but the man has probably already 400, 500 debates in the Croatian Parliament, has his own position on everything, about all defenses or attacks, is very clear and very explosive and knows how to thunder here but here he is silent. It's quieter here than the crickets in Dalmatia and the cricket. I'd like Mr. Bully to get his bass up and say this is right or this isn't right. Although tomorrow when we vote, his vote will be loud, individually he will have to say whether or not he's on shift. But again I will tell you I do not recognise the variant where MOST will be given up as freedom of its colleagues and otherwise it is very tight that Maro Kristic will say I'm on shift, so Grmoja will say and what you called the judge of Constitutional Court Baric and now, let's say Minister Barisic you want to replace, I do not admit such excuses. About these things where the government's functioning is reflected and reflects on future work within the government, they must be unique because they were so unique and when they voted on the government's trust and then they could say various things that would possibly bother them not to vote for Minister Barisic or Government as a whole. So, dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens, you're looking at this, there isn't any here, quick replica of Miro, you get there yet. There's no option here. Let me finish. Mr. Bully is here. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] So there's no politicization or "p" here [[No, no. It's over.]] The only question here is whether standards are respected or not. [[Intruder Reiner: Your time is up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30857	Your time is up. We have two replicas of the esteemed colleague Glavasevic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30858	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and thank you, among other things, for respecting.../Intruder Reiner: I'm sorry, I skipped, but here I think my colleague, Klisovic, will give it to you. You were like that in the first place. There's no more replicas. It's more like a replica, I'm sorry. It's just that I'm, uh, here's what happens if my colleagues agree. Nothing, I thank you, too, for giving me the line, and I thank my colleagues and colleagues for letting me speak before them, even though I really did call, my colleague Bulj is the last. I was actually going to tell my colleague Maras that he's touched one important subject again. So in this story, about this tennis game and the prelude to each other who did what. I think it is worth reminding that most of the parties in this House and even in Croatian politics have been here for a very long time. They all had successes and failures, light moments and dark moments. But one of the arguments that came through this debate several times today was to watch her for what you're looking for, because as if we did, then anything could come out. Let him out. Well, it doesn't serve anyone any dirt. I think, and actually, my colleague Maras, I think that you did very well in your debate, so there is no reason that no one in this House of Highs who has on the one hand Croatia in the heart, on the other hand, any congratulation on the soul to oppose it. And that theme, as she's careful what comes out of it if we do something. It stretches through several wholes. There was talk in the archives about it, and then, in the context of the judiciary, there was talk about it, so here it is. But no one is honest enough to be afraid of it, and you've actually made a very nice disclosure. Comrade Maras, thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30859	Thank you. Dear Representative Josko Klisovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30860	Thank you very much, Mr. Glavasevich. Well, that's where we heard, although I don't see that bomber announcer you'll see Mr. Mesic here on Thursday. Because he said we're getting ready, we're just waiting at a low start, and we're gonna go and bomb you. I haven't heard any of what would possibly in this context accuse some who have been in past governments. That's where the standards are set. On the other hand, I have to tell you, here's what one person sent me. I don't want to say which one is that I'm a plagiarizer. Look at the picture. So my painting with my hat and Brad Pitt next to me. A similar hat, a similar beard. Here, take a look. I wish that were true. [[- What's Brad?]] Even if I took my hat off, they'd see the copies were gone. So, Mr. Glavasevic, of course, we're not afraid, and if we need to discuss it from primary school and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30861	I'm glad your ghost is alive in these late hours. The respected representative Josko Klisovic will now come to terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30862	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, you said today in your debate that the opposition was accused of politicizing this entire case. I told the Prime Minister in my replica that politics can't be a measure in this matter and make a decision on this matter. For politics, this makes the Ethics Commission made up of renowned scientists, people who are competent to assess whether plagiarism has occurred or not. But the prime minister has been elegantly over what I've been saying. A short time ago, our dear colleague Bačić, here he is still there, whom I have very much respected said that politics, so parliamentary representatives agree that I cannot decide whether plagiarism has occurred or not. But that neither can the people of the Ethics Commission, because it was appointed by parliamentarians or politicians. Now, the Parliament also appoints judges of the Constitutional Court and state attorney, governor, state auditor. Whether or not their findings, policy findings or the findings of the state bodies are based on the profession of the bodies whose findings bind us. I also understood the Ethics Commission that discussed Minister Barisic's case that it was a professional body whose decision will at least make us a political commitment since we take away our right as politicians to judge a scientist. The only thing we can judge here is the political responsibility of the minister and whether we want to have a minister whom the Ethics Commission has found to be a plagiarist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30863	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30864	Thank you very much, Mr. Klisovic. Well, I immediately said that, and once again, I am resolutely rejecting Prime Minister Plenkovic's remarks and insinuation that this is about politicisation. I'm not, and I'm going to say right now that I'm assessing someone's scientific work because it has no experience or experience to do that. But what it says here isn't us. It was written and signed by scientists. Ethics commission, Mr. Bacic said that he has nothing to judge us here because the Parliament has nothing to judge, and then there is no Ethics Commission. I will remind you one thing that we have accepted the Ethics Commission's competence to manifest around such things in the report we have accepted seems to me in 2015 or 2016 as a Parliament, so we have accepted the possibility as a Parliament that we will respect what the Ethics Committee brings. And now we've got that right word and why we're now refusing what they wrote. Because we don't like it? Because there aren't four members of nine? So what if it were a 5-4 vote on the Ethics Commission, would that decision be worth it? Look, it's stories for little kids. I'm telling you one more time here it's just that the prime minister and the government think they can do whatever they want and okay. They can, they have most, they'll raise their hands tomorrow, the MOST will help them, but our citizens will see everything. And these 90% of people who think Mr. Barisic should leave this place will remain there and will evaluate the conduct of each representative individually, so will Mira Bulja and Nikola Grumoje and all those who will run in the local elections in three months. So on that side, each of us will vote tomorrow and stand behind his voice, I can, I don't know if Miro can go behind his.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30865	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30866	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'd like to say often when HDZ is caught with its fingers in a jam they're always telling us they're politically mounted, we're set up, they're plots etc. However, we have seen in the past that HDZ ministers and prime ministers, etc. defend in such a way, and we see that the same way continues to defend. And they're also acting in a strange way, if the commission or that council had ethically said that it wasn't plagiarism then they'd say here see the solution is positive what you want. And when it's negative, then it's a matter of honesty to everyone but themselves and it goes with that story they don't admit to any other court except the court of their own party. Why am I saying that? So because these scientists all who support the Minister of plagiarism, they do not support him for Benevolent reasons, but they are all in some way connected with power and simply the government gives them certain rights, privileges and they in turn give him not scientific but political support to Minister Barisic. Someone's gonna say it's just footnote, someone's gonna say it's just two fete prosciuttos, it's only nine days, and eight days is a deadline, someone's gonna say I'm just late to extend parking etc., the argument is countless. However, we see that when ordinary citizens are at stake, then stick strictly to the procedure, and when HDZ's minister, Vice-President of the Parliament, and what else does the procedure matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30867	Answer, I assume you want to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30868	I've already picked up, I don't know if you've seen...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30869	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30870	Thank you very much. So I'm not saying at all that if there's corruption in politics, and we've seen it unfortunately in Croatia that there is corruption in all areas of society in the judiciary and we've seen it somewhere. Why shouldn't there be corruption and immoral behavior, I'm not saying this is corrupt behavior, but it's unethical, but it's got twisted behaviors in science as well. Well, that's what we saw, there were cases of passing exams at some colleges, etc., so there are certain things. Now, I'm also not going to limit it. It's possible that in every party, someone gets sidetracked, so don't highlight it as something that's politically intrinsically intrinsic. On that side I'm not making a difference, if not someone made and mistaken some answers. The person who made the wrong name and last name should answer. Ivo Sanader, we've seen how he was wrong and he's responding, and there's no such sanction here that someone would have to go to court, but there's moral responsibility. And I'm saying that again, it's not me to judge because I'm not, I'm going to say once again, I'm not professional enough to judge it, but these people who signed it are professional. And you can't shake your hand and tell them who the plums are, we don't care. It is possible that the entire Croatian public is so manipulated that the media has manipulated it that they have such a feeling that 90% of the people that Minister Barisic should leave. Is that even possible? It says so if the internet is used on several pages that were doing a 90% poll of ten thousand, it was for the departure of Minister Barisic. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30871	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30872	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Maras. So here's what I consider the highlight of today's debates to say that this is not political persecution and why Mr. Djikic would do it. On the other hand, you did not wonder why one of the dignitaries of Miroslav Radamn, so the scientist and the Croatian and the world voice gave support to Mr. Minister. I remind you of why Djikic did it. On April 21st, 2012, your former minister, Mr Jovanovic, said in an interview in Free Dalmatia "Djikic is our informal adviser, with us he provides support, but also advises which changes are necessary. Djikic will have no office in the ministries, but will be consulted on more important moves," your minister Jovanovic said. I assume that in this case, you did not ask Mr. Djikic for advice or consultation, but that you and your minister gave him advice and invited him to consult if he would engage in your account in political persecution against Minister Barisic. Your minister, therefore, in the daily in Free Dalmatia Đikiæ provides support and advises him. And these days, in his letter, Djikic himself denied consulting the minister and being politically committed. Who here is telling the truth, your member and former minister or Mr. Djikic? I remind you that Mr Vlatko Silobrčić, the current party member Smart and Haranga initiator against Minister Barisic, is also one of the initiators of support for former Minister Jovanovic who opposed those who destroyed Jovanovic's proposals to amend the law on scientific activity and higher education. It is interesting that both Djikic and Silobrčić were not interested in the obvious conflict of interest of your minister Jovanovic during his term and had no objections at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30873	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30874	Mr. Škorić, the people who watch us here on television all know who Ivica Đikić is, for you I'm not sure that the vast majority of people know who you are and where you come from and I'll tell you who Mr. Ivica Đikić is one of the most important Croatian scientists, let's say that in 2005 Science magazine published in its number that his medical discovery, medical discovery, was in 2005. That he won the European tumour research association award for researchers in 2006. That he has so far published hundreds of papers in scientific journals that have been quoted tens of thousands of times. Why would Mr. Djikić place his reputation, his name, he is otherwise invited in all social situations, by the public, by the media, by all televisions to comment in the field of science what is happening even though he does not live in Croatia? His authority is so much that he is more influential here with his opinion than 90% of the people who do science in Croatia. Why would that man put his name in this way, as you said under the questionnaire, which is his motivation other than to repay himself in this way to his homeland and to say what is right. If you already suspect him, why do you suspect people like Anna Barack, a doctor, a doctor with George Stein University? Why do you suspect Ivan Damjanov's professor of the University of Kansas Medical Center? Why do you suspect the Turtle Fucks of New Mexico Tech? There are 20 of our scientists from around the world who have signed on this issue and launched a petition because they are all manipulated by Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic as you humiliated and underestimated Mr. Djikic that he is doing so on the orders of Jovanovic. Well, come on, hold some dignity, Mr. Scrooge. People know who Ivica Djikic is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30875	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30876	I understood Blaženko Boban Thank you for making me understand. [[You've got it all figured out.]] Comrade Maras, your entire debate has come down to how this isn't political persecution. Now I'm going to say it again, so I repeat this because you weren't in the assembly at the time, but I'm going to tell you in the end why I did it again. The city board of Split's SDP will discuss on Sunday the support provided by Science Minister Pavi Barisic, professor of emeritus Josip Milat and Marita Brčić Kuljiš, professor of science and international co-operation of the Faculty of Philosophy in Split. They signed an open letter along with another hundred members of the academic community in fear that the HNS would not leave before the SDP with a request for Minister Barisic's resignation. Many have seen it as a party betrayal, but the former dean of the Faculty of Philosophy said the letter was signed by a professor and scientist rather than as a member of the SDP. That's part of it. Well, you've been saying it all along, the people who are watching us will read it all out of this. Secondly, you're here through a few replicas, but in the presentation, you said you weren't afraid of anyone's attacks. And that's the wrong thing to say in the freshest history. I'll tell you, back in 15 days here when an affair appeared, your club, on behalf of your club colleague Sabina Glasovac went out and asked for a club break to educate us not to attack for what reasons, I won't speak.../The speaker understands./... The second case, yesterday, your president of the club Mr. Arsen Bauk says when in the morning the debate started over some new, recent affairs but we still don't have the attitude of the USKOK or the DORH about it, too please don't pray until there's no such thing. So you know the difference between you and Mrs. Hope, Hope said well. I know, but you're imagining that you know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30877	Thank you. Agent Boban. I'd like to ask you not to replicate or turn into a debate like this. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30878	Well, I didn't hear 'cause the gentleman turned off the microphone while he was sitting.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30879	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30880	Mr. Boban, you have now mentioned the situation in the city organization of Split for which I do not even know... Yeah, I don't know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And she's in this case relevant to what they're going to discuss there. Mr Milat was a member of the SDP, he was an assistant minister, not in the last government but in the year 2000 to 2003, he was a dean of the university and he was already defending Mr Barisic on the matter of those 17 departments or cathedrals, which was already the case. So he's already shown that he's standing very tight with Mr. Barisic. I'm not saying, maybe someone in the SDP will think Mr Barisic shouldn't leave. Obviously, Mr Milat means it especially now that he is in a position to advise both the government and Mr Barisic as a member of this council or commission on what the prime minister has done. And why would that be burdening me now? Why would the SDP do that? So that's not the SDP's attitude? Let him speak his mind. The SDP has its position, the SDP says it trusts Ivica Djikic more than Josip Milat. Is HDZ your problem if someone from HDZ is to tell him he's wrong? Well, maybe he's wrong. And here I'm saying here a very clear SDP member Joseph Milat is wrong. But what, let the man speak. And now what's so funny? So what do you think everyone in HDZ is wrong, that everyone's always right. Well, you don't mean that. Is that what you think? Here, nod left, right, up, down, let me see if you think. So here you are, frozen. So you probably don't think everyone in HDZ is right either. I don't think everyone in the SDP is right either. Mr. Joseph Milat is wrong just as certain as some in HDZ are wrong. And what's the problem? We're asking Mr. Secretary to leave because of what we think he's wrong. That's the point here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30881	Anka's representative Mrak-Taritash has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30882	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, here's a few hours we've been discussing and discussing, and after that few hours when you draw the line, we have a common denominator that could be said next. We've got two bets. One point is that Mr. Minister needs to leave, another point is that Mr. Secretary should stay. And it's no wonder that the debate is so long and it's no wonder that the debate is now. You know when you form a government and at a time when you represent ministers and when you have someone who has a problem before and when he's named head of the ministry that's closely connected to this problem that I have, I'm deliberately not talking plagiarism and nothing but saying a problem, then you have as prime minister really one problem and one weight around your leg. And you have this foot weight all the time, because if the minister hadn't been appointed to that duty, it would certainly have been something that would have been discussed in the scientific community, something that might have caused controversy. But my colleague Maras and I know very well the following. At a time when you were appointed minister and appointed minister of the department, then everything you did in your former life and you have the right to question yourself and that was also the topic at the time when the government was appointed. And it is no wonder that the topic is now and it is no wonder and it will not be a wonder that this topic is in the future, because it is one weight that weighs on Mr Plenkovic. And it's absolutely clear that I have two sides here. One side that tells my people to be a minister is the obligation and responsibility and the other side that says: "We will defend our minister I'm bareing bodies until I'm ready. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30883	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30884	Thank you very much. Especially when it comes to, and I think our viewers and citizens of the Republic of Croatia also recognize it when it comes not only to their minister, but to their minister. So it doesn't have to be just from your party. This one's just the prime minister's. Because I'll bet there's a lot of HDZ people here who have been here for a very long time watching one of Mr. Bačić's HDZ's patriarchs who's been here at the highest levels for twenty-and-a-half years has been the party's chief secretary. So I bet you asked him a few days before the government was presented who would be Minister of Science if he were Minister Barisic, I might ask which Barisic. So it is not the HDZ minister, such as Minister Tolusic or Minister Butkovic, who are HDZ vice-presidents, they had certain duties. They've been here 20 years. This is Mr. Plenkovic's hand pick. If Mr Tolusic or Mr Butkovic had done this, they would have already been "goodbye". You can't let that happen here. Here, if Mr Barisic leaves, Mr Plenkovic will leave rather than Mr Barisic. That's why he took this to his back. Believe me, if Tolusic and Butkovic listen to us, I wouldn't want to be in your skin to do what Barisic did. You would already plan a campaign in Novi Vinodolski and Virovitica in the next local elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30885	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30886	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, when Mr. Maras calls me several times and he scientifically explains it with great scientific experience, with great potential and several times so loudly he calls me, and forgets five, six months ago that he voted for the Constitutional Court for plagiarism and you and the HNS. Why did you vote Mr. Maras? Why? And HDZ yes. You were unanimous. Why weren't you so loud? So loud was your silence that in the Constitutional Court we have a plagiarizer proven. Where was your voice back then? Or Mrs. Taritasha's CNS just before that. Where was your voice for Miss Bagic, a proven plagiarist. And certainly your scientific here showing me as an ordinary man who has a high school, who because of your scientific reach and has arrived at the Parliament and your scientific action through the Ministry as the best minister, I have indeed come here because of you, because of this, the people have given me confidence. You won't call me out loud. You can, but it doesn't mean anything to me, and I certainly won't vote as you say, nor is it my intention, whether this society is an academic community and shared not now, but long ago on all matters, in all matters. The silence was loud from the intellectual elite that now divides the people through you, and you kept your voice silent when you were minister, you kept silent. And I don't keep my mouth shut, and I won't shut up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30887	The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30888	Mr. Bull, there's a lot you can say to me but to keep it quiet. So I was very loud, and when I was a minister, I had a lot of conflict and with my colleagues, everyone who was following politics on the surface knows so Maras never shuts up. As far as you're concerned, I'm glad my calls worked so that you came running here, but you have to understand me, I've been here with you for a year. Every day I hear your voice 10, 15 times and then the man gets used to it. You can simply think of it as one form of addiction. I haven't heard from Bulja all day and this was simply an appeal to invite you to hear from me today. But I haven't heard what you're voting for yet, so you don't have to vote as Maras tells you. You don't have to tell me, you tell the citizens. I'll close my ears and you tell the citizens, Mr. Bull. Well, I can't wait to see it, but that's what the entire Croatian public is waiting for. Well, I'm very pleased to see you, Mr. Bulj, don't be on the right click, but click on the right way, so don't be on the right click, but click the right way. And if you think so, I'll open your soul to you now. I don't think I've made any optimal decisions in my life, I've made many mistakes, but that doesn't mean I have to make a mistake tomorrow. That doesn't mean it can serve you as an apology. that Maras may have made some wrong decisions once. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Click right, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30889	Thank you. Representative Fred Matic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30890	Thank you very much. Here after almost eight hours of debate I'll say maybe what others haven't said. To me, Minister Barisic is a very kind man and I am particularly sorry to have a great empathy when he said he was being persecuted like beasts. If anyone in this room understands what it means to be persecuted, it's me because I've come a lot like that. But I'll tell you one thing Mr. Shakespeare would say to the illustration. I've been in pain for a few days and I keep thinking this is what this is, but when I know what's really wrong with me, when I go to the doctor. So also if Minister Barisic is a plagiarizer. I don't know that. But who knows? He knows the Committee on Ethics and Science in Higher Education. But what's going on here now? I will tomorrow, personally root for the minister to pass tomorrow's vote and get confidence to stay, but after that we must resolve, someone must be fired or resolved by either the Minister or the Committee on Ethics and Science in Higher Education. And now what I would really like is for the minister to pass the vote, and finally to see again the real original face of HDZ, which is carried out by selective democracy. So when we don't like something we don't simply accept that opinion and now it's proof of this Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. And the second is, what happened a few days ago, so the Commission's decision on conflict of interest as soon as it has expressed some doubts about a member or a member of the HDZ is immediately considering that this commission should actually shut down if it is going to punish our members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30891	The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30892	Thank you very much. Comrade Matić, you've easily resumed here, we're going to sacrifice five scientists here. One was already on the wallpaper yesterday, then there was no problem with whether or not they proved something, four more with him together and that would be fine because it would be the price to save Minister Barisic. I don't know if the same as you people can even figure out here in the assembly that nobody's happy about this, like we were rooting for it to happen. Well, a man doesn't cheer for bad things to happen and then laugh from the end and be self-sufficient. Why would anyone want to do that, Minister Barisic? But, Mr. Minister, you're a minister. You're not subject to rules like some scientist people may not look up to. Maybe no one even analyzed it until yesterday. Ivica Djikic did not put you in software to control your scientific works. Excuse me, Ivan Djikic. You have more than hundreds of thousands of scientists in Croatia and believe me that of this at the human and personal level of the SDP and we personally have nothing but to show that there is a certain responsibility in politics and government and that, on certain occasions, we should behave. It's the only thing. Don't take this personally, I'd like to, I know you're not comfortable sitting there, I wish this wasn't happening, but since neither you nor the Prime Minister wanted to take responsibility and make a decision that I'm telling you 90 percent of the people expect you to make. We had to go with this...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30893	Thank you. Representative Sabina Vosovac reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30894	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A lot has already been said today, but I feel the need to use my time for an individual debate and say my position at the end of why I signed it, that is why I am one of the signatories of the motion to vote for mistrust, Minister Barisic, who received the full trust of the majority in this Croatian Parliament several months ago. People gave him some kind of support, support, and a chance to show what he knows and make our education system better. I did not vote for Minister Barisic, but I also did not welcome the man to the knife in my debate. Minister Barisic also remembers very well that in my debate I was quite constructive, that I wished you good luck and all the knowledge I had about the state of the Ministry of Science and Education I shared with you in the hope that I would help you detect some key problems with all due respect to your associates that somehow you do not waste too much time and that you are going to solve them. And I didn't do it because I like you as a person, I don't know you, I did it for the reason that I wanted to, and I want good to our education system no matter who ran this country, I want him as much damage as possible and I want him to step up in as short a time as possible. Because if something can't wait, then it's an educational system because it's growing up, it's getting kids, they're kids today, and they can't wait, they're adults tomorrow, and we need to react right now. Also today when I try to explain why I signed a request for your recall, don't take it personally, I have nothing against you as a person again, I don't know you, but in these 100 days it's just too much that's happened that tells me that you can't be a minister of education anymore. If we want a better future for Croatia and a better future for education, you ministers, unfortunately, must be the victim and you must become the past. I don't want to live in a country where tomorrow some kid is going to be punished for cheating by a negative grade, maybe even a pedagogical measure. And this Croatian Parliament may be sending a message tomorrow that the minister can prescribe and that it will go unpunished. I don't want to live in a country where some kid at the prom that he's going to take in a few months for stealing exams is going to be fined by a cash amount which is a new measure a month ago and the minister who said here a board of ethics has stolen part of someone's work will go unpunished. I do not want to live in a country where the students of one of the most important universities in Croatia, who was the victim of a housewife of ideas, progress, the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, could not learn to maintain prey, were guarded by the faculty of security. In this Faculty of Philosophy, freedom of thought is choking, the Faculty of Philosophy has been in crisis for half a year, no one reacts, not even the ministry. With all due respect to the constitutional category of university autonomy, it was your ministry that helped those who did not wish well to the university to lead to a hostage crisis to obstruction and deepening of the crisis. I don't want to live in such Croatia. I also don't want a minister whose government doesn't keep its promises. You promised, you promised to care and care for the standard of Croatian teachers and professors. Not only did you promise that, but your former government signed it. And now that all the conditions have been created, when there are more money in Croatia than there have been in these few years, you say, unfortunately, we were joking a little bit, you're still not our priority, we're the priority of militarization of Croatia, we decided to list 300 to 500 million kuna in mandatory military time. I do not share such a picture of Croatia and I do not want to give you support today to participate in this and not to fight for a different Croatia, it is your obligation to fight in the Government for the education system. You ministers are not only Pavo Barisić, you can also be called Mato Matić but at this point you are the most important and most positioned person in the education system in Croatia, you are a role model, you are a role model for children, you are a role model for teachers, you are a role model for scientists, you are a role model for parents. You write and make rules. And not only do you write laws and regulations, you write unwritten rules. That's where we come in. You write rules, unwritten rules of desirable and unwanted behavior. And if you remain a minister of this state, this Parliament, your government will send a message that in this country, copying is more important than knowing, that we don't care what happens at the Faculty of Philosophy, that no matter when a person who is a secretary of state, a state official representing the state offends the most vulnerable groups of societies and these are children with difficulties and national minorities. When the top state official, the secretary of state accuses other countries of fraud in international research, is there anything worse than that? So what? One apology, one word nothing happened, we'll forget it. What kind of message is that to the kids? What kind of message is that to teachers, teachers? What do you think it's like for ministers and teachers to get into class, to catch kids while they're cheating on the exam? So they write messages every day, they say, so it's embarrassing for us, don't ruin our reputation that's so ugly, save the dignity and dignity of an educated system of teachers and teachers that you said they don't live on finances, but as you said they should be guided by well-being. Today, the prime minister surprised me unfortunately. No grain of shame, no shred of responsibility, no pride, no sarcasm, no domination, no cynicism. It's not something I expected from the person I have to admit to has left a very different impression on me. Equally so in defense he is as the main argument why not to point out to you that this request is for your impeachment to attack the government. It's not an attack on the government. This is a struggle for Croatia's dignity. Among other things, if you will, it's a struggle and for the dignity of the government, because that government is also our government. This government represents Croatia. You are described in Nature magazine as the Minister of the Croatian Government who does not want to leave even though the plagiarist is proven. It's our picture in the international community, the scientific community. I don't want to be responsible for such a picture of Croatia. And we only use democratic instruments to prevent such a picture of Croatia from being sent to the world, and even worse, to enjoy such a picture of Croatia by our youngest who must be held, to give them some hope, to believe that knowledge is important, to start to appreciate, if it is not appreciated today that they will start to appreciate tomorrow. But no. I appeal to all MPs and MPs, there aren't many of us in this assembly. But let's think about whether this is just a vote on whether this is an affair of plagiarism or an affair of footnote, or a technical error. No, no. These are much more important messages that we're going to send to society. Let's take that one step. Let's do this one step tomorrow and show that we are a modern European country and that we are ready to admit a mistake and that we are ready to show that everything is not lost in this country, that there is hope for this youth and that we realize that knowledge and education is the only thing that no one can steal from you. Because even when he steals from you, it's proven that he stole it from you. And I appeal specifically to the MPs and the representatives of the Most, there aren't many here, but tell them. I'm just asking you one thing don't let Minister Barisic cross the bridge. We can't do it alone, there's not enough of us, but we can stop it. Here, let's stop it from happening. This person represents the Croatian Government... [[The President's incursion: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30895	Thank you, MPs, the Voter. Representative Glavasevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30896	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Comrade Glasovac, you have said several times in your debate that Minister Barisic did not welcome you to the knife under quotes. And it's actually worth it to all of us. And you've made it very clear that this is our government. In fact, it's important because it's rare, but it's really hard to say here tonight in such an ugly way that it's actually questioned our loyalty to this side of the assembly, that because we're asking the question, because we're doing our job, and our job is to question, to put under an increase, to expose the ruling pressure test, is simply our loyalty to our homeland being questioned in very ugly and perfiduous ways at moments by colleagues and colleagues on the other side of the assembly. What I'd like to add here is true for all of us. I think even though it's so ugly to point out, there are a lot of colleagues and colleagues on the other side of the assembly that I greatly appreciate. You just know what I often hear? Please don't speak publicly. I'll be in trouble. I don't know if anyone from our party ever got into trouble with his colleagues and colleagues because he was praised by colleagues and colleagues from the other side of the HDZ. But you know what? I'm not sure that any of them have ever praised one of us, and we do. We've done it a few times tonight, both in public and in interviews, in shows, we know how to do it. But I really don't want to, and that's the impression I got here tonight that only because we're the opposition thinks we're traitors, and that's the kind of words we've heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30897	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30898	Well, I don't feel like a traitor at all, but if anyone thinks I'm a traitor or a traitor, I'm proud to wear that label. That's what I can tell you. But the situation is really a colleague of Glavasevic's serious. You see 25 years in Croatia, a single network, a powerful one interested network that has now come into a position to capture the entire education system, the system of science and higher education in that network and make it its hostage. And what surprises me is, in fact, the amount of resistance and the amount of power to be invested and the funds used in the last few days to preserve that network. But I wouldn't mind it being a network that has some kind of vision, which offers some kind of progress. No, just retaining acquired positions and empowering individual interests. And that's what can lead us to ruin. And the prime minister here this morning is talking about some kind of curricular reform, a strategy, a social consensus. Well, yeah, but we were supposed to talk about social consensus a year ago. And yes, educational reform should be a consensus of all parties in Croatia, but not in this way when you take two calls from one former SDP minister and one from the SDP who is not there as a SDP but for some other reasons. And then you say you see that brotherhood and unity bloom. If you had left Budak, then I would still believe that you want to continue continuity and some consensus, and these are transparent stories for the purpose of this today, among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30899	Thank you. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30900	You were talking about those interesting lobbys and the web they're kniting. I was talking earlier today about this article by Professor Kasapović Anatomy of a plagiarist and a network in which the plagiarist got involved, and I will probably not answer today, perhaps, but the anatomy of a plagiarist and a network that the plagiar has drawn together with his partners Ćović, Borasa, Ježić and who send pamphlets against all of us and say that we are jeopardizing Croatia. So, please, colleagues of Glasovac, they wrote an obscenity pamphlet that was signed by some pan-European union that was recently led by Barisic, now led by Ježic, in which they say our request for the resignation of Barisic is, quote, "The subject of the campaign led by left-wing politicians and public figures as well as part of the extreme right, which is why we are jeopardising the European policy of the centre of Croatian government". Come on, please. It is similar to my colleague Šokić, not Sokic from Split just before, stuttering a pamphlet from a portal that I call to be polite to Drekno.hr where you are careful Đikiæ disqualifies what he was talking to me about. Well, I said he was an informal consultant because he didn't want to be a formal advisor. The informal adviser means that we could discuss various topics concerning education, especially the topics of advancement in science and the topic of the work of professors over 65 years of age, which was brought down precisely by the fear of nepotism and corruption of the team around Barisic headed by Covic. They're a cancer of the academic community, and while they run the academic community, there's no future for our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30901	Thank you. The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30902	I'll repeat, that's the part where you say that circle of vicious circle, the core. But it's not the whole story, it's just the core. So the Ministry of Science and Education, Mr Barisic, State Secretary Gluncic, was awarded more than 14 thousand kuna to the Club of Croatian Humbolts whose president until 23.11.2016 was Minister Barisic. More than 23 thousand kunas To the Croatian Bioethical Society, the founder of Minister Barisic, more than 22 thousand kunas to the Croatian Physical Society where Mr Glunčić is on the board of directors, more than 68 thousand kunas to the Mathematical and Physical List in whose board of directors is the Secretary of State Glunčić, and is published by the Physical Society. It was issued by the Institute of Philosophy, director of the journal Contributions of more than 47 thousand kuna, was Minister Barisic. Vlatko Previsic, Ante Covic, Minister Barisic, Igor Catic, president of this magazine where Mr Barisic was the younger brother of Mr Radman, who supported Minister Barisic. The journal Philosophy Research and... philosophy more than 283,000 kunas, the journal Contributes 405,000 kunas for the project. Look, a lot of signatures are written with a lot of zeroes, so it also has a price. But let's think about what's going to be the victim of this story and these octopuses and these nets. The whole education system. And the message we send to the system... Intruder Petrov: Time./...we will not be washed by the sea in a hundred years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30903	Thank you. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30904	Thank you. Dear fellow Glasovac, so you said that it was recently forbidden for students to be on the tide, means that the building was locked up for them and that you do not want to live in such a Croatia. So I also don't want to live in Croatia where students who choose to paint with me are later named because of this act by their professors, I don't want to be in Croatia where the Ministry of Science writes pamphlets against representatives in the Croatian Parliament who threaten the education system, and the biggest threat is themselves. I don't want to be in Croatia where students who take pictures with me are later questioned by the police. Mr Barisic, these are not democratic methods and it is a great shame for you personally and for the ministry under your rule. Such a way of working that, by its nature, everything but for the purpose of developing critical thinking actually reveals a totalitarian mental set against which we should fight. I do not want to live in such a Croatia, and as we can see, the pressure is not only applied to high school students, the pressure is applied to scientists themselves because if they give an opinion that does not like Mr Barisic and clicks gathered around him, then there are other methods, pressures, blackmails, etc. It is a sad situation in which not only Croatian education was brought, but also a general Croatian society. And you, Mr. Barisic, are just one link in that chain of incompetence, incompetence and indifference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30905	Thank you. The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30906	Dear colleague Pernar, as Parliament's representative, no one can forbid you from communicating with the citizens, including your job. However, there is no way into the school space without notice and there are very clear things. It's personally unacceptable for me to say when you're trying to get your students to stay out of class and don't do that, you're really hurting themselves. However, we can't look at things with double criteria, I'm much worse off when the president of the RH kindergarten children without going a little bit, not Serbian chocolates, but the images of their icon with her autograph. And what kind of message does she send, and she's not the only one, what kind of message does Croatian politics send to our children? You're good when we need to use you for promotional and political purposes and when we need to provide you with a different school, when we need to provide you with a better education, then we're sorry, we're not important, we don't have money, some other priorities are important. There's the problem, the attitude of Croatian politics towards children. What politics does not see what it can give these children but observes how these children will use for some of their purposes. And in this self-loving and crossing these finess borders, in fact, there should be no serious politicians involved and should not lose and at least the Croatian president with kindergarten children.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30907	Representative Voter, since you have, you will probably have a few more replies to the replicas, I would really ask you to stick to the topic or at least the replica that someone has sent you. And neither did you follow the line nor did you stick to the darkness. Representative Gordan Maras, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30908	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your debate, you have on several occasions appealed to be preserved, I would say one part of the government's dignity and that this case does not hang in the air for the next 4 years as it is likely to hang on not by our fault and not by our will and desire. We wish it wasn't there and we didn't have to discuss it. And you said that you wanted Mr. Barisic not to cross that bridge and what someone had already said earlier in the debate to essentially cross the bridge to European standards this time rather than be a stick in some swamp. And on that side, I expect it. Since the Most people are relieved of Mrs Baric in the Constitutional Court, I believe they will stick to those standards tomorrow. And Mr. Bolly and Mr. Bolly. They mentioned it on several occasions today. I can't and I don't see the possibility that they can raise their hand for Mr Barisic and so much, I would say they were shocked and disappointed with the choice of Constitutional Judge Sanja Baric. That's 1/1. So says today all day, no, sorry, no, what's the lady's name? Snježana Banovic, I apologize to Mrs Sanji Baric. Here's Mrs. Baric, I apologize here publicly, I didn't mean you but the lady who had a problem, now I don't even know if she was proven to be plagiarizing, I don't know, here's Mr. Bulj's head but the lady who was appointed to the Constitution are having such a problem that was insurmountable to Mr. Bulja and Grmoy, I'm convinced that tomorrow they can't react differently than we all know they will react. That's the only way that's possible. But let's see what happens tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30909	The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30910	I don't have a colleague Maras magic ball to know how individual MPs will vote. Neither do the representatives of the Most. I believe in the conscience and understanding of the depth of this problem, each of the representatives and representatives in this Croatian Parliament. And this, yes, is tomorrow a matter of crossing the bridge towards European standards but more than that, it's a question of Croatian maturity, responsibility and boldness to make that one step and to show ourselves that we can still be honest with ourselves, to see what damage we can do to ourselves that is best for us and that here we will do what Germany did 9 years ago today when their minister of education 9 years ago today, here and perhaps symbolically resigned because of the same thing. Perhaps after that the woman asked for satisfaction in court, it may have been proven that she was not guilty, but she simply realized the gravity of the burden she carries not only to her government but also to her own state. Well, maybe we've been in Croatia for nine years, too, maybe we're coughing for Germany, but maybe this is the moment to recognize this impulse within ourselves that the time has come for change and time for steps, for ourselves, for our sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30911	Anka's representative, Dark Taritash, has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30912	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Voice, I was invited to a replica by something you said that we could all agree on. You know, we all want quality education for our children, and there's no one in this distinguished House who wouldn't advocate that children need to gain knowledge, that they should be creative, and that they should be responsible. So I partially refer to this replica as the mother of a student who studies at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, and I have to admit that all my life I've been telling him that he needs to be responsible, that he needs to learn, that he should be responsible for doing his tasks, that when something says he needs to know what he writes, how he writes, and at a very early stage, children and at the university learn how to write professional papers that write. And it's gonna be really hard for me to come home today or tomorrow morning when I see him and explain that it's worth it to him but that it's not worth it to the ministers. Ministers as a man absolutely understand and it's hard to sit here all day and listen to everything we have to say, but keeping in mind the Minister's résumé is not that strange, but once in HDZ's government he had to leave because of some other thing, and then I'm less surprised that we have a chance to attend this long debate today. But really, think about all parents whether their children are in primary school, high school or college when they have to tell their children you have to be responsible, you have to do your tasks seriously, you have to learn and finish what you started and that's not worth it for the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30913	The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30914	Well, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash won't be difficult for you alone. There will be a vote here. We'll see how it develops. It is very likely that Minister Barisic will succeed in his intention to remain a minister because he is strong behind him, but Prime Minister Plenkovic stands strong. But you won't be the only one who'll have that problem. All parents will have that problem. You can't cheat at school, you can't cheat at school, you have to be honest not only with the authorities but also with your colleagues, you have to tell the truth, you can't lie, you can't manipulate. When you're wrong, you have to admit it. It's gonna be just as hard, and I told the teachers to get into class, take exams, share negative grades, make the kids write them again. It will also be difficult for those who will attend the state prom, where they will also have to sanction such behaviour. It will also be difficult for those scientists who will make these public calls to the ministry in the hope that they will receive funding for their scientific journals, for their scientific gatherings, and in fact they are not near the altar, they have nothing to say, so they will run out of funds even though they may be of quality. It will be difficult for teachers to continue to pray for what belongs to them, what is a commitment, a signed obligation, and they will have to pay all their commitments daily. No one's gonna ask them where and that's what it's really about. The messages that we support these behaviors destroy the system and make all of us in some of our micro worlds unbeliefable whether it is that we are parents, that we are teachers, that we are scientists. That's what this is all about. This isn't just about one guy like you say or plagiarism as we say. The question is much deeper And please understand that. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30915	Thank you. Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30916	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Voice says that morality is the attitude we take towards people we don't usually put up with. And today you're always saying that to the minister and to us, we've always had something small, and you've had a lot of morals and all ethical, all right, all great. Never better. And then I watch this quiz of yours about the Minister of Education, nice like this, I guess he had some intention to convince us of some of our minister's sins. And if you worked at school, you know there's a trick question. And I'm going to ask you a trick question that I think if you've already taken on the morality of us that would be some part that would veer all these relationships between these seven questions. Here might be the eighth question. Here's what I'm gonna say, so you're gonna answer me by rounding up loud here. Do you know the name of the minister who answered as the only public tender for the job at Talasotherapy in Opatija called in "The Voice of Slavonia" and when he reported he passed as one and quit. ( a) Paul Barisic, (b) Željko Jovanovic, (c) Gordan Maras. Here, please answer me. You were helpful to him and to tell me if it was moral and could you judge us here all day?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30917	The answer to the replica, the representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30918	I'd be happy to answer your question that my colleague Opera, excuse me not Opera, but Oprah didn't play some kind of opera, not an opera, but some music note that disabled me and caused the woods in the canal. But when we're done with this session, you can ask me a question, I'll give you the answer. So I didn't hear the question. ... [[/Intruder Boric: So you don't know?]] [[/Intruder Boric, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30919	I thank Sabina the Voice. I'd ask the MPs to stick to the rules. Representative Ivan Pernar reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30920	Thank you, Your Honor. Ha play the case say what on the Internet's impasses I'm known as the man who uses it, so as the minister this time I'll plagiarize someone else's text and I'll read someone else's text. But I'll give you the name of the author. Text says next. This is the real Barisic. A biography of a new science minister filled with plots and affairs. According to Paval Barisic, an insignificant philosopher, a witness-suspected schemer, an insatiable academic bagbar, a proven travel and cost-supply dipper, and a occasional judicial stalker of journalists who dare to notice something of this, is the new Croatian Minister of Science and Education. In these words, science doctor Boris Lenhart, a regular professor and head of the computer biology group at the prestigious University of Imperial College London on Facebook yesterday accompanied the selection of a man for a leading position in a sensitive portfolio. And he says this, what he's saying with a meaningless philosopher, I'm not going to get into it, but there's something else. He says this: "The media mentioned a case in which on September 11th 2008, at a Senate session in Split Barisic an approved subsidized loan for the apartment."Beware this, the loan was granted even though Barisic already had a house of about 200 metres in Zagreb, and the particular problem is that the disputed loans were shared past the list on which 150 young scientific recruits were waiting for housing. So between you who already have a 200-square house and scientific recruits who have nothing, you've got an approved loan. Keep an eye out, in English double dipper here I learned this term today thanks to this debate, so the one who's been paid twice for the same job. Apparently, in this case, the double dipper refers to the fact that, as assistant minister Dragan Primorac, he had to resign because he and his associate traveled to the Dubrovnik symposium for which he charged travel expenses and journals from two sources and from the organisers of symposiums and from the ministry. So, Mr. Barisic, you've already resigned once and it's as an assistant minister. And what are the consequences? Not that a man is so let's say that he wears a Stigma one but on the contrary, a man who had to resign because he actually stole from the budget he was promoted to the Minister of Science. Keep an eye out for the occasional court stalker of reporters. It is known that Barisic sued Tanja Rudes the best European scientific journalist in 2015 for the text in which she presented the above-mentioned facts about the dubious hyper engagement. 4 years later Barisic withdrew the lawsuit, although the information she submitted was correct and took everything she needed to do before the text was published. There's a lot of questions, but this overpayment thing, that's double-charging, so that's what I think is the bottom of the bottom. So you're already paid and then you charge the same thing again. Same as this story with these loans, etc. Your career, Mr. Secretary, is not for the minister. This kind of story, anecdote, this looks more like that Del Boy and Rodney Muæka show to me, you'd be a good actor in Muæke much better than you'd be a science minister. And I don't know if this is the only thing, let's just say, adventures, but when you consider all this plagiarism, so here's what they mentioned that, as a doctoral work, you actually handed over 80% of your master's work without saying earlier that you had previously had it as master's work, all these facts suggest that you're not a scientist who, by your example, would be a positive impulse to our society. You're not a scientist that other fellow scientists will be proud of. I see here that Mr. Djikic's expertise and his honesty with his HDZ colleagues is being challenged because he said it was all crazy talking to you as a minister, but no one is questioning a man who has already had to resign. And I wonder where you find such gentlemen from HDZ, how you choose them, by choosing which selection we have here today, this is a negative selection. At a time when many scientists flee our country and those scientists who have behind them and credibility and renaissance and expertise, etc., you as a minister mean to us these capable people smart who have no career stains they go out and people like Mr. Barisic climb to the top. As for the politicalization of his ministry and those pamphlets against me, it's except that he morally fell low off that let's say foreign political and scientific, he fell low and on that political side because I, if I were a science minister, would never write an edict against him that he was a parliamentary representative and actually politicized his function in such a way. I think that instead of facing the problems of things in education, these are textbooks that change all the time so parents keep throwing money at new textbooks for the same material, the problem of hungry children in schools, the problem of small teacher salaries, the problem of losing entire classrooms, so we have a decline in the last 15, 20 years of primary and secondary schools for nearly 200 thousand. Instead of talking about this problem, instead of the Ministry of Such Things writing or saying that after education these young people do not have a job, they do not have a job instead of dealing with such things, that such problems indicate that they are sought out by the Ministry of Education? He's in Ivan Pernar. And who? I don't know what it's all about. And as I said earlier, you HDZ gentlemen, especially you, Mr. Barisic, are unable to look first in the mirror, and I recommend that the next time you write pamphlets against someone to look at themselves in the mirror and ask yourself again and answer publicly in front of all of us, I believe that they will give you that opportunity that was your motives when you were already paid for the second time from the state. And in the end, if that's why you had to resign once and were forced, but watch out for this Sanader government, that's what it means then was Dragan Primorac Minister, I think it's Sanader's government, so Ivo Sanader at the time you had to resign at the time of Ivo Sanader. Sanader said that this behavior was unacceptable to him. And now you who were and for Mr. Sanader were to say so by weight he himself considered you in some way likely and corrupt. Now Mr. Plenkovic, after all the verdicts have fallen and against HDZ and Sanader, rehabilitates you and returns you to a large door as a man who will launch scientific processes that will renovate Croatian education, which God knows what he will already do. For all of these reasons, I just can't look at those facts. Maybe my bridge colleagues can? Maybe Mr. Bull will close his eyes and say I'll be restrained? Maybe a couple of HDZ colleagues, too. I can't be abstentioned. I'm sorry that my colleague the Voice once was restrained by me, but there she is. I'm sure I won't be able to keep it that way, and so will my colleagues from the Living Wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30921	Time. Thank you. Representative Fred Matic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30922	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, my colleague Pernar, I repeat what I just said. I firmly believe that Minister Barisic will pass the vote tomorrow and that the request for his shift will be rejected. However, it also automatically withdraws that the Committee on Ethics and Science must be abolished, and people are resolved because one excludes the other. They can't all be right. What a folk proverb would say “is impossible for a girl to be a little pregnant. ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30923	Reply to Replicator Pernar
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30924	Well, yes, this example is the last classic example of whether something is or isn't. So either a woman is pregnant or she's not pregnant. So there's nothing in between. So is Mr. Barisic either a plagiarizer or not a plagiarizer. The Commission, as you said to the Council, the Ethics Committee, etc. Ethics and science said it was a plagiarizer. And now we've been discussing the extent to which he's plagiarized. That's one footnote, that's 80% work, is that I don't know what. But the fact is, it is. And in every normal state, we wouldn't be discussing this kind of thing. So, this debate could have been dreary, dreary, and that goes here and by the late hours it didn't have to be at all. For a month, we dear ladies and gentlemen waited, waited and waited for the gentleman to show that note as he would say, there was a time when criticism and self-critics were said in the party. In HDZ, I see no criticism and no self-critics. They are a modern party that has overcome and some party let's put it this way and in which only praise can be spoken, and there is no responsibility. And I repeat, the most shocking of all is the fact that at the time of Eve Sanader he had to resign. Repeat this watch that you are listening to, at the time of Eve Sanader that man had to resign as assistant minister because of the theft in essence of state money. And Prime Minister Plenkovic, who claims to be the new HDZ, that he is an honest man who is difficult, does not even return him to the same post, but raises him to the post of minister Thank you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30925	Thank you. Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30926	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, I'm replicating to your part where you asked us where you find people like this, who you protect, why you protect forgers. I'm not going to read from my cell phone. I'm going to read from one newspaper an interview from one of your colleagues who left your club at another club, so I'm going to read this part very interesting, so you're going to answer these same questions to me. When things broke, the gentleman went to the Department of Administration to look at the documentation on the Living Wall and there was another shock. I discovered that both my signature and Michael's signature were falsified in official documents at the meeting of the assembly and the records on the work of the main committee on which it was proposed to form a disciplinary committee on which the rebels around Sinisha Gabrić were kicked out. That's not what we were involved in. Look at how we sign, and what signatures are stored in the Ministry on our behalf. You don't need graphics. You see that with a naked eye." That statement said the paper could be crucial in determining the three's criminal responsibility for counterfeits, and then indicating how much punishment there is, etc. And the second question is, one lady from your party you say is that she's a woman, a mother, a Queen of the Living Wall when she handed over the list signed as a graduate engineer. Based on the document, the list, it received 2,000 140 votes and entered the Croatian Parliament. Instead of her, there's another colleague here today. And the media was interested in that graduate engineer and, of course, they didn't find that there was such a diploma and a calling for that lady. Now you tell me where you find these people? Who are you protecting and why are you protecting forgers if they are? Here, thank you very much. Just so we know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30927	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30928	Thank you for letting me replicate. You've asked interesting questions and I'll gladly give you an answer. Mr. Boric, if you suspect the meaning of my function in the party Live Wall, if it bothers you to know where I am, who I represent, if you think the elections in my party were unfair, you are even questioning whether there were any sessions, is there not, whether the signatures were or not or not that colleague, so here, dear Mr. Dear, see the colleague you are referring to today no longer talking about such things. So he never went here to talk about it. And you wonder why. And you, like parrots, read the morning list and convince yourself that if something was written in the morning list, it's true. ... Do you know what things were written in the morning list about me? I was portrayed as the greatest criminal. Hanžekovic shows me like that today. And Mr. Boric says the attack is the best defense, and it's interesting how by actually turning on the topic and switching let's say the balls you're actually trying to avoid, or you're actually admitting that you don't have arguments. Because if you had an argument to defend Minister Barisic, you would have made those arguments. You don't have those arguments. But you don't have that argument, Mr. Boric. And instead of making arguments that would support his credibility and be the reason for his staying, you're outsmarting with us from the Living Wall like we have internal relations, etc. And what can I tell you? Will you be President of the Living Wall? You want us to choose you? What do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30929	Time. Agent Pernar, thank you. Representative Glavasevic reported on the replica. Thank you. Representative Majda Buric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30930	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Here you are, Mr. Pernar, who without permission enters Croatian schools and hunts around underage children, which is why the directors lock the front door you are at least invited to talk about the credibility of the Minister of Science and Education. You mentioned hungry children, however you forgot to mention that at the time of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic it was provided through a trust which was founded by the Republic of Croatia 23000 free meals for children of weaker property power. That's what you forgot to say. And besides, you forgot to say that according to the Philosophy Faculty of the University of Augsburg, as is common in the scientific world that it is allowed, I quote: “Previous publication of parts of doctoral dissertation.” Complete quote. In addition, when talking about the dissertation of professor Dr Barisic, the following should be said, that the strict doctoral exam evaluated the committee of three top scientists for three disciplines, which are germanism, philosophy and law. They're Professor Dr. Baruci, Prof. Dr. Sc. Copman and Prof. Dr. Sc. A brother-in-law. After the defense of the doctoral dissertation, the Magna Cum laudem was evaluated. Besides that, when you speak in the Croatian Parliament, you speak Croatian for what our Ivan Kukuljevic Sakcinski fought for, so she did not overcome it, she did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30931	Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30932	Thank you. You say it's not a problem that 80% of the work is actually a copy of the previous work. 80% that's 3 and 4/5, respectively. You see, ma'am, it might be legal. Many of the things you've done, say, as has been amended, by the law that allowed your party's founder Franji Tudjman to buy a state villa that he otherwise couldn't buy, so one day he changed the law, so he did it legally, and then the next day he changed the law. The law was in force one day. And you'll say it's legal. It's legal when she told Ankica Tudjman that there's no money, that she understands the people who freeze, they have no heat or no food, that she understands them because she's in the same situation when the director comes. So they found her a million kunas and I still don't know how much money. And it's legal. No one's ever been convicted, no one's asked themselves, so where'd she get that kind of money? You say you helped make sure the kids weren't hungry, but ask yourself when they get out of school if they're going to be hungry. Ask yourself, ‘ Is this the problem of hungry children in schools? Is this the cause of the problem or the consequences of the problem? ’ I guarantee you, or anyone reasonable knows that this is the consequence of your policy, and you always deal with the consequences, never the cause. And even when you face a man who's already had to resign once because he's stolen the state budget you'll say so he's never been punished for charging the same thing twice. But obviously it's an immoral act. But in his conduct, unfortunately, you don't see an immoral act or an obstacle to being a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30933	Thank you. Representative Glavasevic reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30934	I thank you, Mr. President, and I thank all of you colleagues and colleagues. We've been here a long time and I'm going to leave out everything that's been said and I'm actually going to focus on something that hasn't been said so far. The first of these things is one study by the Institute of Social Research which, therefore, gave us information on how and how many students in schools learn, i.e. research concerning ethics, or inethicalness in the education system. So then we got information about how only 35% of the students in Croatian schools really learns every day. 65% not, and nearly 60% of the subjects only learn before the exam. It has also been established that inethicalness in the education system has existed since primary school, as many as 80% of students are doing homework, so that's where we're already going. Then there is also a variation in the environments in which it has been explored towards counties, cities, etc. Depending on the environment, between 50% and 60% of students listen to the so-called The whispers in the oral study, and in the end, in a high school study, we got the information that about 63% of fewer students think that to enroll a school or to enroll from education that it's more important to say that you have a relationship, that you're resourceful, that you have parents who have relationships, so all of this is, according to the research results, more important than learning. What does that tell us? It tells us that unethicalness has been present since the earliest days, tells us that by the end of high school students have been sensitive to corruption, to nepotism, to tolerate, to have one corrupt perception of society. I think one of the reasons why I'm talking about this here in these late hours is actually what we think, and I'm going to refer very briefly to it, that actually the stay of Minister Barisic validates such behaviour, he does not sanction it. Col. Pernar said Mr. Barisic was not sanctioned for his earlier crimes but rather rewarded. Also the issue of academic honesty, which is what should have been a cure for the problem that has been observed and about which this research clearly speaks. Academic honesty has been one of the most important parts of the curricular reform that no longer exists. So in several interlocutive topics, there were academia, through a series of subjects. This could be talked about through ethics, through nature and society, through religious science could also be talked about, but it was all thrown out. About academic honesty and how children can be taught academic honesty very extensively in a handbook called How to Talk to Students About Academic Honesty. I would quote one of the authors here, Marija Bajkushu, who says this way “By his academic congratulation from the earliest school days we encourage lifelong learning and personal growth of students. The important role of education in the development of the principle of academic integrity among students is seen." I mean, at the end of this, I have to say one thing, if you're going to be a minister after all this, you need to know that you can't go on as you've been going so far. Your role requires you to be a fighter for science, for education, for every child in the education system and in the system of science. People expect you to deal with some very serious problems that we are facing today, with the clearing of the education system, with the militarisation of society because look at all the announcements we have heard from the government so far, this government will find money for planes, ha helicopters, for a military deadline of 500 million or how many there will already be between 300 and 500, while no Croatian university is among the top 500 best universities in the world. The HDZ election campaign was full of demographics, preventing brain drains, and watch us from Croatia are just leaving these educated people. I mean, no one's really in the best interest of this going on. What about student democracy? Are you ready to give young people a voice, a true voice worth something? Because if you are not up to the role that your duty requires of you, then you will actually need to answer only one question and it is terrifying, and that is who will remain to turn off the light in Croatia after everyone leaves. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30935	Representative Pernar has come forward with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30936	Thank you. You asked Mr. Glavasevic who would stay to turn off the light. Those who lead to darkness will be left behind, and those who protect people like Pava Barisic will remain. And honest, honest people, working people will leave the country and they will leave every day because for them unlike the plagiar minister, the minister of double dippers for them there is no work in this country. And I ask Mr. Glavasevic of you, do you think that Mr. Barisic is someone who, by his appearance, raises standards in the education system, someone who gives such a positive impulse, someone who sets an example for students, students, professors, scientists, scientific money, etc. Or someone who actually lowers those criteria, what do I say that means that everything means not a hero but an antihero of the whole science story? Do you feel Mr. Glavasevic that such a profile of people can implement the reform of the education system? Well, that man, in my opinion, was supposed to reform himself first, himself. And we see that he continues with his politics. And not only that, there's no shame, and they won't say, here I am, if I were him I'd say it's a shame, I'm ashamed of this, I apologize, I don't want you to be running this debate anymore, I'm resigning, I've done such things. But unfortunately, Mr. Glavasevic, I'm afraid we won't hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30937	Replicate reply by Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30938	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Pernar, so let me answer your question briefly. I would not sign a request for the replacement of Minister Barisic that I believe he should remain in office. Part of the reason I brought it up here. But to refer to the first part of your replica. Look, it won't be just the ones that led to the dark. Some of us have sacrificed far too much for this country so that we can accept that. I think there are people who are really willing to die for this country. I don't speak, I mean literally, but mostly figuratively, leave my heart in the fight for this country to be a better place to live for every young person. I mean, I'm saying, the reason we've been looking for a shift, first of all, is that this behavior wouldn't be valid in the eyes of young people, the students that this is OK. Because what can they expect from their lives in Croatia if they know that no university is in the top 500, if they know that some academic excellence is becoming more and more frequent and more public and public in what kind of relationship do you have or in some network of congested interests rather than really academic excellence? I mean, that's the defeating stuff, that's the defeating stuff. But we have to, I mean politics is also about what's real. There is a possibility that Minister Barisic will remain minister, and then I really ask him here to cut if it happens with the practices so far and to take what he heard here today as a turn of the new list, because it can still be redeemed. If that happens, it's not too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30939	Thank you. Representative Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30940	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Glavasevic, you spoke of the importance of education for the future for the development of our children. There is a great book called “Religion for Atheists, ” and it speaks a lot about education. Among other things, it points out that since education, it has been believed that from primary school to university education is actually a cure for all social problems and social concerns. One of the people quoted in that book is the British philosopher Victorian advocate of the goals of education, Johan Stuart Mill, who said that universities do not only serve to create skilled lawyers, physicists, engineers, but especially capable, entrenched people and human beings. And the ultimate goal of education is actually better, wiser, happier people. And I disagree with what you said. Minister Barisic cannot remain a minister because, with his appearance, he cannot encourage young people to become better, wiser, happy people after completing their education. He refused to answer today why he did not exercise administrative supervision of the illegal, non-static decision of the University of Zagreb which is choking on the Croatian study. And here, since the first editions of tomorrow have already come out, a number of people are reporting and commenting on his letter to justify reporting that he has plagiarized, autoplagiarized his doctorate, where he has clearly violated the promotional rules of the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Augsburg, that he does not specify in his dissertation his own works that he has installed in it, so he has broken it. Since Barisic's dissertation of collages from his previously published scientific papers cannot represent an independent scientific work and contributes to the development of science, which violates the promotional rules of the Faculty of Philosophy at which Barisic was doctored. Our message must be, Barisic leaves, and let Plenkovic take it as his personal advisor if he thinks he deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30941	Thank you. Replicate reply by Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30942	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I would like first to correct a small incorrect assumption. So, I said in my debate that of course our intensity is here and that we stand behind the grounds for impeachment. But that it may happen that this is by the will of our colleagues and colleagues he remains minister. I am a believer, and for us Christians there is always this possibility of redemption and salvation. That's kind of my logic. And that's why I really firmly believe that even if it did, and I think that would be an incredible mistake. I think the better thing is for Minister Barisic to leave, first of all to go, and if it's not possible, then if he remains to keep working on these things he's heard here to try to make amends, try to turn a new leaf. But the things you're talking about right now are extremely worrying. We haven't talked about them here much today. But the question is perfectly logical. What happens if it turns out these allegations are correct? If the software of some kind in augsburg or somewhere that dear colleague Tudjman spoke about earlier after the zero-unit equation came to the conclusion that the doctoral dissertation of Minister Barisic's plagiarized chores was a dictatorship, I think we must have a new debate about this. Actually, we shouldn't. In fact, then Minister Barisic should really follow the example of Karl Teodora... Minister of Education. [[You don't understand.]] The Hungarian president also had a similar situation. So we've said many times that we're not actually talking about academics here, we're talking about political metrics. And it's a political measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30943	Thank you. The "Live Wall" representative's club answered the final word. In their name will speak Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30944	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have a historic moment ahead of us. Today, we as a society can say that we are looking for a positive policy and positive politicians, that we are looking for social responsibility. We can only say that we agree to excellence, and we can say that we agree to average and below average. Today, even though the minister is a double charger of the same thing that has already resigned at the time of Ivo Sanader had to be given to the assistant minister today is not only being debated about him. Today, we are actually discussing the direction in which we as a society want to go. Perhaps HDZ colleagues believe that this is exactly the kind of person that is perfect or let's say similar to the post of minister. I don't agree with that personally. However, the fact is that the majority in Croatian society decided in the elections to support those political options that are politically protected either directly or indirectly, Minister Barisic. The Croatian people in front of him is actually the highest court. He's the one who's going to judge all of us in the election, and he's the one who's going to decide with his will whether or not he wants to be a minister of education for people who have a strange personality to say the way of life. This time, that path is not a path that other scientists should follow. Ask the HDZ gentlemen, ask yourselves the following question. Is Minister Barisic an example that other scientists should follow, an example of a person who undisputedly plagiarizes other people's work, who, as a doctoral dissertation, actually gives 80% of his master's work, a person who charges twice the same cost, a person who has nothing to do with the scientific community? So ask yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, is he some kind of philosopher? Imagine, or ask yourself, this thing. He's a doctor of philosophy. So you know what the depths of let's say should be thought? Can you imagine one Socrates, Aristotle or Plato charging twice for the same thing? This is about being in a suit and with the title of a true doctoral degree in science there is a man whose way of thinking and state of consciousness is ground floor, not sublime. I think that his behavior is ultimately, I repeat, I still don't know which way, and even in the time of Eve Sanader, something that's falling off the norm, something we shouldn't stimulate, something we shouldn't support, something we shouldn't stand behind. If by any chance I were a member of the ruling majority and someone had brought all these arguments to me during the debate, I would say please find a place for the Minister of Education a better quality person. You have most of it. There are scientists who have a better résumé, who have no affair behind them, who have not already been replaced or resigned, who are original in their works and graduates, and scientific, and doctoral and whatever. Give us a better man. Here, I'll personally support him. Here's what it means if you propose another minister of education, even if it's from your party, but there's no mud behind it, I'll have Ivan Pernar from the Living Wall lift for that man's hand even if he was a member of the HDZ. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30945	On behalf of the government, Minister Pavo Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30946	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here at the end of this very contentious, very rich, inspiring debate in which I have heard such beautiful adjectives where I have learned much now I have seen that I am not only a plagiarizer, but also a slave with error, and cancer, and a meaningless philosopher, and a double dipper etc. I've written down a few more beautiful expressions that very well testify to the discourse that was being conducted here. But since the good part of it is already here I've been killing myself, I wouldn't want to repeat myself. Just do it again for the loan, I'm not gonna repeat myself for all this other stuff. But as far as double travel orders or logs are concerned, that's proven in court. Mr. Pernar, once you're free of your immunity, we can discuss this in court. So there's nothing like it. I'd just like to say the truth. I am here, therefore, completely pure of cheek and conscience. A man who's committed himself to researching the truth can say that, as far as I'm concerned, that none of them stand, that it's not plagiarism, or any other form of responsibility that would make me withdraw any conjecture. And as for plagiarists, let me finish with one illustration of a man who, if you don't have to trust my conscience, probably has an objective conscience, it's a respectable Dr. Ninoslav Besker, who concluded his excellent presentation of my review article in the following words, quotes: “This is why a failure to quote in a transparent article of a secondary source cannot be considered a real plagiarism. By Inoslav Besker's conscience, I believe that there is a failure to lead, not to take part in someone else's work." It's a finished quote. So by throwing away all the accusations that have been made here and the slanders, I just want to say in the end that I will not hesitate to do anything for the benefit of our system, science and education. I will continue the education reform more firmly from primary school to higher education, and I will work to build a better, more modern, more successful system that will be more stable and more resilient, and the support and encouragement of the academic community, teachers, teachers, students, students and scientists is an obligation for the government to whom I belong personally in order to make our education better, science more successful, and in this we will persist. In this I would like to contribute to the building up of the foundations of our education for new and future generations that will be able to cope with the challenges of the 21st century because children need to gain excellent education in every way that meets the requirements of modern times and the modern world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30947	Thank you. Representative Pernar has come forward with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30948	Thank you. I would like to ask, Mr Barisic since you claim that I am wrong, please give you not only to me but also to the public who is watching this explain why you resigned or were removed from the post of assistant minister of science at the time of Ivo Sanader. Please answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30949	The reply to the replica of Minister Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30950	Anyway, I'm not for the reasons you listed. ... I told you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The reasons and all that you've listed here are pure slanders. So it's... /The speakers are talking at the same time./...I beg your pardon that what you have stated is only in one newspaper written to be whispered, and this rumor is about double billing the logs was proved in court that there was no rustling, there was never any double charge of the logs or any other reason. And my cooperation with the minister and our arrangements as long as I'm the assistant minister of someone, it was the matter of our agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30951	Representative Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30952	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers. It was a good closing speech and it really wasn't easy to listen to all these labels today. And you don't have to bother yourself with this gentleman, he slanders everyone, labels every day. I'll give you an example, we had a broad debate here, it was the first debate where he needed his immunity removed, but the Parliament didn't do it. He even accused one man of killing two girls. Look, it's not a small charge. After ten days, the police found the real unsub, and that's not the one he defamed. That gentleman didn't find himself properly to apologize, to apologize to the bar, he stayed with him. And if he had gone where he was supposed to go, it would have been very clear that he would have paid at least some kind of fine. That's why you don't have to burden yourself with it, it's starting with the messianic roles of some kind. Mostly when you ask him a question about a diploma, then he won't answer because of course he does the same thing that pleases us, and we're completely different in all of that. So I congratulate you on what you've endured today and I hope tomorrow we'll show all our views and I think we've been very reasoned and we've clearly shown what's true and what's politics and labels.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30953	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30954	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Col. Boric injured Article 232 and Article 238. Rules of Procedure. 232. refers to the subject, namely colleague Pernar, in no way is the subject of this discussion. Mr. Barisic, the minister did not refer to Mr. Pernar in his discussion, and his colleague, Boris, reflected on Mr. Barisic. And in 238, I think it's clear that Mr. Boric is a bar convicted of slander should know that these things without arguments should not be spoken of by his fellow Parliamentmate. I mean, it's offensively simple. If these things want to talk privately as he says, let him go outside the Parliament and let them talk about it there, but not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30955	Before you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you'd have to say two or three things. At the very beginning today, I asked that there be no insults, given certain words that came out of certain parliamentary representatives and MPs, and even in the time I was there, I could say so. At the moment of the demand for greater freedom of parliamentary representatives, then I allowed it at the very beginning to say that it can be spoken in a broader context so that someone would not interpret that the right to speak, freedom of speech, as Mr Boric spoke about a distance from the topic, reflected on Minister Barisic's conversation. And as for the insult of the parliamentary representative, I sincerely apologize, I may not have heard the first 10 to 15 seconds, so I missed it, but the rest of the replica was not offended. But if you think I was wrong, I'd ask you to really use your right. Replica, actually a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30956	Article 238 is a lie, a lie to degrade me as a person. I've never been in court in my life and I don't know how I can be convicted. If colleagues know anything, maybe we should know there's an institute outside the court settlement, outside the court settlement. And I admit my mistake, apologized, and I think that every man can do it especially the one who publicly might have said something wrong, and I apologized. But here you have men who now say he's condemned to slander And now that I sued him, he'd cry on the Mandate-Immunity Commission and ask us not to take off his immunity. [[I'd like to ask...]] So I wanted to explain their lies. [[Intruder President: Representative Boric, please...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30957	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30958	Also, Article 208, because Mr. Boric persistently insults all other MPs, and a slanderer has been proven and has been convicted of his slander.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30959	Honestly, I don't understand why this was now a violation of the Rules of Procedure, when MP Boric explained what it was about. But well, I mean, your wars as Mr. Glavasevic said would be best to lead outside the assembly, then the debate would be much more constructive. Representative Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30960	Thank you very much. Mr. Barisic, I have before me the Ethical Code of the Institute of Philosophy in which you work, and in article 7, which speaks of scientific honesty, says: “Among the particularly serious examples of scientific honesty is plagiarism. taking over other people's ideas and formulations without listing authors and sources from where these ideas and formulations are taken over and inventing and falsifying data. Autoplating i.e. copying your own texts without stating the source is also considered a form of scientific dishonesty." This is the Ethics Code of your Office. Let's look at what's ethical and how ethically it is I have from the internet, so from a university of small college where the teacher resigned because part of her work that was her profession candidate was quoted inappropriately and that previous data was used. Her statement was that she resigned because she knows what it means for students, which means for scientific work although she feels she did not make a mistake consciously, but unconsciously, but because of academic purity Professor Herlin Basler resigned at a small university in the United States and that's the scientific purity that you as minister should protect. But unfortunately, “the fish stink of the head but it is clean, unfortunately, from the tail. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30961	Thank you. Representative Glavasevic reported on the replica. ... Representative Maras has come forward for the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30962	Thank you very much. Ministers here at the end of this debate in your presentation you said, that's usually what people say to show their confidence, and in fact you haven't responded to many of those things that we were interested in. Here's exactly what I asked you about Mr. Zikic. So you looked at what the man wrote for you. These are very serious things and I expect you to press charges for slander against Mr. Djikic and prove it in court. It's the only thing that would convince me that what he wrote was incorrect and that you think he did something to harm your honor and reputation. Since you don't do it, you don't react, nor have you shown yourself at all to these things of his whether it's true that those authors are written as wrong as they are on Wikipedia in your works, is it true or not. So you haven't looked back in one word. You referred to the mistake and the Ethics Commission and you called it a mistake. And you didn't look back at these nine things that man pulled out of your work using this software we were probably talking about earlier. Please tell us if those things are true. And if they're not true, do you intend to sue Mr. Djikic? And third, what makes you think he's doing this to you? Do you really think Jovanovic talked him into it? Does that make any sense to you at all? Most people don't. Why would Ivan Djikić put his reputation, which has an undisputed reputation in the world, at stake to be manipulated by Zeljko Jovanovic to harm you? Nobody believes that alive. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30963	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30964	Thank you very much. As far as all the allegations are concerned, I was obvious, and about this text by Mr. Djikic, I will mark it with only one quote by academics Slobodan Vukicevic, a man who says he was sent to America by Mr. Djikic for study, who said it was a plagiarism for plagiarization for plagiarism. I quote, please don't... As far as my trial is concerned, I will act, but it is my way of not making public announcements if there is a need and for what is necessary. [[You don't understand.]] And why the gentleman in question works, ask the minister of ten years ago who he deunched as a racist, ask those scientists with whom he was in the dispute, ask Academyman Miroslav Radman and many others with whom he was in the dispute, and then you'll be a little closer to being true to your question. I've never had the experience of this with Mr. Djikic before, and I wish I didn't have it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30965	Thank you. Representative Glasovac reported on the replica. Final presentation of the motion for a representative of the Vosovac. Here, I apologize, it's not written, but you can direct the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30966	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this attitude is amazing to boast about Mr. Barisic's attitude. Everybody's wrong. He's the only one who's right. I just got word from a reporter, and I'm going to be gentle again, telling the truth about the double diaries, so it's never been proven in court because she wrote the texts about it. He keeps saying Mr. Barisic is not telling the truth. He claims the problem is just one footnote and the other one wasn't correcting anything. That's not true. So he corrected 4 things out of 7 of those that were listed in the application against him. In the Spanish translation in Dokos magazine as well as in the translation of the English version of the editorial book Mark... from 2012 changed that footnote and the thesis of the three waves of democratisation, he wrote to Hangtington, not to himself and fixed it.... So, that's where he's telling the truth. He claims that they were errors, that he spotted them and corrected them before submitting their application from 9 February 2011. He's telling the truth again because in his own obvious, he's saying the opposite. So he says three different things. He keeps telling the truth. Watch out... the Dokos magazine comes out two years late. Mr. Barisic is a member of the editorial board of the magazine, while at the same time the editor-in-chief works in philosophical research Synthesis philosopher publishes 6 papers. His work is an animated work. A review of the work was carried out in three days. So, work is 2010. He's going out in 2012 and he's calling his friend, please put it in. So do you see what this man is doing? He brings lies from one work to another. Well, such a man cannot be a minister of science and education in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30967	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30968	I think Mr. Jovanovic has constructed so much that I really don't have a comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30969	On behalf of the promoter, the closing word Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30970	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. At the very end of today's session, I would like to thank all my colleagues and colleagues who participated in today's debate. I hope through this debate we've managed to shed some light on some things, that we'll get out of this assembly today here's another six minutes today, and then tomorrow a smarter, more enlightened one. And here, once again, I urge you to gather your courage and make a step tomorrow. That's what I said in my individual presentation. Mr Barisic, you cannot remain a minister of science and education because the body authorised by this Croatian Parliament to be an independent body has established that you have used parts of other people's work without giving a source, without giving an author. Mr Barisic, you can no longer be Minister of Science and Education because you have not blinked your eye when your first associate insulted national minorities, insulted children with developmental difficulties and accused other countries of cheating on very serious international studies or pisa research. Mr Barisic, you cannot be a minister of science and education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia anymore because you, or your first associate, signed decisions in which you gave public funds, the resources of our citizens to yourself and your own, more specifically to magazines and scientific gatherings in which until yesterday you or your first associate who signed those decisions sat down and made decisions. So you controlled that money. Mr Barisic, at this point, I will not be able to keep myself particularly on the fact that your ministry was not able to even normally organise the start of a second term in Croatian schools, that you were unable to regulate holidays in a way that did not apply one rule for the rich who went skiing, and other rules for the poor who did not have the opportunity to go skiing, so for the first time I don't know Croatia's history I guess we had confusion where parents wrote, they didn't know any more if children were going to school now two weeks ago on Tuesday or Monday. I will not even mention the fact that you and your associates have contributed greatly to the crisis that is happening in the vein of Croatian society's housewives I will dare say, and that is the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb. You've contributed to this crisis and you know it very, very well. You broke your promise to those who carry this country on their backs, as you said, they are not guided by material and financial, they are guided by the spirit. I can do it for a while, I can do it while the state is hard and it is. Our teachers, teachers, teachers had patience and when they signed that collective contract or supplement when they were told – look, the people of the country have been in crisis since 2007, when better, be patient, bear that burden, when we get better, you will be the first to feel that we are better. What happened? The state's doing better. The budget's growing. This is where we listen at the 12th month we're making progress, we're waking up. No, there's no means for them. But that's why orderly citizens have to pay all the commitments they make. Nobody asks them if they got paid at all, they got it in time. Who's going to ask them if they're going to carry out their contractual obligations? No one's asking them. They must execute them. E, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia doesn't have to. And you're part of your guilt too, because you failed to excavate with the Minister of Finance and in the Government to fight for that system. Mr. Barishic, I repeat, neither I nor my colleagues here have anything personal against you. However, you represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you write the rules with your behaviour and you will determine the precedent with your behaviour, you will be precedentd and determine what will be tolerated in the future, which will be acceptable and which will not be acceptable. And before each of us there will be a decision whether we vote for the fact that you deserve to keep the trust you received in this Croatian Assembly a few months ago, or it is time for you to leave. I will be able to look into the eyes of every parent, every teacher, every teacher, every scientist, because we will know that here through this request for your recall we tried to change things and send a message. Some behaviors such as copying are not acceptable, such as abuse of position, conflict of interest, such as non-reaction in a place where you are supposed to prevent chaos and you need to run the system in better, not yet produce and be a confusion factory, a factory of problems that I don't know the assistants in the follow-up ask whether they'll get paid or not, from liquid things to these big ones. And those colleagues and colleagues who will give you confidence, who will vote against our proposal or decide that you will continue to present the policy as you should be, the principles that should be guided and how you should behave, let them see how they will be able to look into the eyes of that teacher tomorrow, that teacher who will have to take the exam of a child who is prescribing, that teacher, teachers who will have to take someone's test and make it impossible for the child to go to the state's graduation exam and the following year, etc. That won't be our problem anymore. We don't do what we do to politicize, we don't do it to collect cheap political points, we don't do it to destabilise the government. We're doing it so that we can sleep peacefully and say that we've used all the democratic mechanisms, not tents, not the street to destabilise the government, but all the democratic mechanisms to try to change things, point out that, not this way, it can't. And it's not, I'm going to do it again, about whether this affair is going to be called plagiarism or we're going to minorize it, so we're going to call it a footnote affair or a technical error. It's about the message of new generations. You're not just any minister. You're not the Home Secretary. You're not the Minister of Health. You're the Minister of Science and Education. You're an example and you're a role model. And we don't want you to be an example of our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30971	Representative Pernar has come forward with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30972	Well, I'd like to tell my fellow voters that like the others who haven't lost their moral compass, I see the seriousness of your words. And I'd like to point to one paradox and absurd. So the Faculty of Philosophy Science Institute, where you are, in fact, to say it in some way enthroned, he says that autoplagia is something you can't do. And you yourself, or I'm the minister where they say now, is so it's not disputed that he copied it, so that's allowed. This is about the total decline of all possible criteria and in the highest place instead of the most moral person, instead of the person who in scientific terms has certain results behind him. As much as I can't stand Dragan Primorac, and yet Dragan Primorac at least had some scientific opus behind him. Minister Barisic has no scientific opus behind him, and I think he should be replaced. And for that reason, I will support your proposal for his shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30973	The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30974	That fellow Pernar you have now somehow returned to the scale of things. But I'd, uh, I think your replica is the last one, I'd say. This isn't a plagiarism, it's not even a footnote. This will be a test of Plenkovic's credibility, the Bridge of Consistency and our opposition responsibilities. And we as opposition and signatories of this request may not be in the majority, we may not succeed, but being in the minority doesn't mean we're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30975	Representative Bačić reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30976	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Glasovac, you were an assistant minister of education and you certainly participated in the development of a strategy of education, science and technology that prescribed university autonomy. I see that you are very eager to represent this SDP and HNS proposal on the resolution of Minister Barisic and thus demonstrate how much you really do not hold to the document you proposed when you advocated university autonomy. Because you are based on the decision of a single body appointed by the Assembly and which has proved to be a political body, and does not mean much to you the decisions of the Ethics Commission made by the Ethics Commission of the University of Split and the University of Zagreb. On the other hand, you mentioned in your final address that while some Croats go skiing, there are a number of hungry children in Croatia. I would remind you that when you accuse others so lightly, remember which minister and whose minister went skiing using a vehicle and at the expense of his ministry. Therefore, when you decide to attack others, it would be good to mix up a little bit at your doorstep. We all have a reason to think a little bit before we say so. I just can't help but get the impression that you're attacking others lightly without seeing what's going on in your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30977	The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Bacic, I don't feel like I've attacked anyone in particular. I'll start skiing. Yeah, I know of some cases where some 15 days after they became presidents of the Parliament went under rotation for skiing. Secondly, I did not participate in the development of the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology. As you know, we've left the business to the experts. We have created a political framework and conditions in which they can work, but we want this country to be guided by those who have the most to say, to give them full freedom and to create a space where they themselves work, because they know best what to change. Third, I do not represent this proposal for the impeachment of Minister Barisic as you said. I signed it under full consciousness. It seems to me that my signature is even number one, and I have to say, I'm glad that's the case. And fourthly, university autonomy means software autonomy, meaning autonomy in the vision of development. University autonomy does not mean anarchy, university autonomy does not mean that you are not subject to laws, that you are not subject to certain ethical norms, that you do not have to account to citizens for the funds they give you from the budget. You see, one of the biggest problems in the last 15 years in Croatian society is that autonomy, by the Constitution of the prescribed autonomy of the university is interpreted very, very extensively even in certain cases and misused in a way that where did you get the right to ask where the funds we kill students went? Why didn't they go into development programs? Why did someone pump their own captains and do something he shouldn't have done? This is what I think in the near future of this Croatian Parliament on the state of Croatian science and Croatian universities, if we want to be good to this country, we would have to discuss very, very seriously and make serious conclusions that will reroute some universities to a path that is not a good path.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30979	Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30980	Thank you, Mr. President. In your discussion, you spoke about the importance of looking into the eyes of every primary schoolmate, high school boy, etc. I don't think we can do it enough times here today. So, it's literally, what we're talking about today is a literal question of credibility in the eyes of every person who goes to school today, who is in the system of science, every teacher, teacher, teacher who, for example, asks their children who teach not to prescribe. They have to explain to them what academic honesty is. That's what I was talking about in my debate. They have to explain to those kids that stealing the idea without telling where it's from and whose car it's like stealing a car. It's the same thing in the academic context. But what's the beauty of the idea is that they're actually free. The only thing you're looking for is that little wedding to say look, this isn't mine. These are the foundations on which I build, the great foundations that someone else gave me and gave them to me for free. So it's the beauty of academic war and it's the beauty of academic honesty, because we've achieved something together. It's a collective effort and the progress of all mankind, the entire academic community. And let's look at it then if you break those principles of good faith, then let's face it, look into the eyes of that 7.8-year-old kid who can't prescribe or that high school kid who thinks he needs a relationship to get into college or teachers or teachers who have to sanction kids because they do the same things that someone else gets paid very well for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30981	Replicate response, MP Voter. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30982	So that's a colleague of Glavasevic's. We may send a message from this Croatian Parliament to the children that you are the only copying. If you have enough powerful friends who were good enough with your father and with whom you have such links from the past, where you've been protecting each other, you've found yourself in some trouble, you've helped yourself, and you'll become a minister and no one will be able to help you because I will stand by you. And when we talk about looking into the eyes, I have to admit that the hardest thing for me to do was to see students and professors of the Faculty of Philosophy when they've been in action and fighting for six months, they're crying out for help and looking in some way. They don't ask us to do it directly, but they expect help. And as the Croatian Parliament, we cannot take a single step to help disintegrate the crisis. You know why, so they don't tell us to go into university autonomy and break the Constitution, and we swear here that we will respect the Croatian Constitution. Now that's a question of how to get out of it and how to get rid of that frustration that you're actually looking at social problems, and as the biggest body, the most responsible body can't help solving it. The only thing you can do is talk about them here, but you still see the risk of someone accusing you of disrespecting the Constitution and getting into something that's sacred, which no one can question any move in running or acting in college because it's a constitutional category of autonomy. Now that's something that bothers me how we're going to look into those students and students and those teachers and teachers who have their own fight, they're fighting alone, and we can't, and we can't help because that's what the Constitution is about, that's what some say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-09-0.u30983	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the sequel is tomorrow...... That's right, you're right, today at 9.30. [[You can't hear it.]] The vote will be at 12:00. The first point we continue with is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Procedure of Appeals, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 77. Thank you. Session interrupted at 12:10 p.m. The next item is the proposal to launch a trust issue for Pavi Barisic, Minister of Science and Education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Proposers are 45 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for a decision to show mistrust to a member of the government require a half-dominated majority of all MPs of 76 votes. I am voting on a decision to show no confidence in Pavi Barisic, Minister of Science and Education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that with 72 votes against, 18 abstentions and 49 votes for the decision did not receive the necessary majority and that Minister of Science and Education Pavo Barisic continues to enjoy the Croatian Parliament's trust.
