ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-27-0.u24528	Your Honor. Today we mark the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust and the Prevention of Crime against Humanity. It is a day where Europe stops every year to remember and honor all victims of the Nazi regime during World War II. I invite you both to stop and pay tribute to the victims with a momentary silence. - A minute of silence. - Thank you. The International Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust causes the deepest and noblest feelings in all people of good intentions in us whose names these victims remain permanently recorded, that their suffering is always recognized, valued and remembered in order to eradicate from our own hearts the evil that can cause such terrible tragedies. Today, when we remember a pogrom in which millions of people have been killed, we unconditionally condemn a Holocaust with faith and hope that mankind will never testify again to the crime of such proportions. On January 27, 1945, Auschwitz, the largest and most notorious concentration camp in Nazi Germany, which deported more than a million and 300 thousand people from all over Europe, was released, millions and 100,000 were killed. They have lost their lives, their name will remain permanently written in the heart of their loved ones, their few surviving companions, all of us who have compassion for them, and we are prepared to fight that such bloodshed may not be repeated in the memory of the almighty God. Today we pray and worship before all the victims of concentration camps and all the places where the Jews died in World War II. Today, we hope that the worship of race and class will go away, any discrimination on any basis, and that man recognizes in other men. May their sacrifice be an inspiration to all of us for the awakening of the most noble in our own being so that we can build peace within ourselves, society, state and world. The day of remembrance of the Holocaust is the day on which we remember the immense human suffering, especially the suffering of the Jews, and all those who were not in the mercy of the ruling regime. We can't help but wonder, who's to blame for the fact that at one point in our history there was such a destructive regime? Who bears the blame and responsibility for the crime against humanity? What we can and what we are obliged to do and pay attention to the educational dimension when it comes to this topic. Consistent promotion of the truth about the darkest pages of the near past is important to prevent the acts of genocide in the future and to build and cultivate a culture of peace. Former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan said on January 27th 2006, that the tragedy of the Holocaust cannot be erased, it must be remembered with shame and fear as long as human memory exists. I end this address with a sincere desire that nothing like this will ever happen again in any part of the world. Let us be builders of co-existence, not violence and peace. Thank you. We continue with the agenda of the plenary session. Right point, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-27-0.u24529	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Club of Croatia, I am looking for a 15-minute break because of the government's inappropriate relationship with the victims of Holocaust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-27-0.u24530	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-27-0.u24531	On behalf of the CNS and HSU, I request a recess on tomorrow's European Data Protection Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-27-0.u24532	If there are no other requests, I'd like a 10-minute break, please. Thank you. It's 9:00.45. [[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING IN 9,48 HOURS]] The SDP MPs' club called for a break, on their behalf Bojan Glavasevic, will explain the reason for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-27-0.u24534	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues today in the morning of 1945, the Red Army freed some 7 and a half thousand prisoners left in Auschwitz mainly because they were too sick, too tired to go to the march of death to camp Loslau some 63 km away from the temperature of -20 at that time. This day is thus marked worldwide, i.e. in Europe as a reference to all the victims of Nazi regimes. What about Croatia? How does Croatia remember innocent lives burned in the flames of fascism and Nazism? Is that what we're credible about? We're not ashamed of our shame. Our shame in 2017 stands in Jasenovac with symbols and words on which orders were sealed to kill thousands of innocents. A similar panel is located in Kutina. On our shame in 2017, in Sibenik, the school's principal prohibits an exhibition about Anna Frank because I quote partisans as flowers, and they stood up as butchers and criminals. Due to all this coordination of Jewish municipalities in Croatia, she decided not to participate in today's memorial program with the government of the Republic of Croatia. They say they don't want to stand with those who allow the relativization of the constitution or those who do it themselves. This week, Prime Minister Plenkovic went to Israel, trying to amortise the shame the whole world sees, warning it. We warned here, too. He also brought our Vice President of the Parliament to a respected colleague, Brkic. Thus, before the eyes of the Israeli government, the prime minister washed his face with holy Jerusalem water, planted an olive tree on the Mountain of Remembrance. A colleague, Brkic, wrote a prayer and inserted it into the pay wall. I hope his prayers included Anna Frank. But it's not enough to honor and mention the victims of the Holocaust just in front of the Wall of pay and on the Mountain of Remembrance. It is necessary to be credible and to do the same when you come home to Croatia, and the prime minister was not credible at all. His minister, who is not an honorable enough man to offer his resignation because of his own plagiarism, was not honorable enough to replace that director who banned the exhibition on Anna Frank. It doesn't take a commission to investigate whether something terrible happened, at least not to those who know who was the victim in Holocaust and who was the criminal. If Minister Barisic has a dilemma on the issue, he should contact the co-ordination of Jewish municipalities in Croatia. For them, and for us, there is no dilemma. This is just another reason for the replacement of Minister Barisic. A man who refused to replace the secretary of state when he discriminated against national minorities now does not want to replace the director who discriminates against the victims of the Holocaust. Is that a coincidence? Such a man does not deserve to be a minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. "How wonderful it is that no one has to wait a moment to make the world better," Anne Frank said. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, you don't have to wait either. Trade Minister Barisic and Director Belimarić and you will make the world a better place and make yourself more credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-27-0.u24535	I thank Representative Glavasevic. Representative Maria Puh is in front of HNS, HSU's club, which also requested a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-27-0.u24536	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to raise awareness of the importance of the protection of personal data, the Council of Europe declared on 28 January the European Data Protection Day and it has been marked in all Member States of the European Union for 11 years in a row. The right to the protection of personal data is one of the fundamental rights of protection of the interests of each individual, which refers to the prevention, prevention and sanctioning of all types of abuse of personal data, and is guaranteed by EU regulations and thus also by the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of protecting personal data is to actually protect every citizen's private life. In order to act preventively, a systematic and thorough education of all our citizens is needed so that they know how to protect themselves, how they can protect their personal data and how they can eliminate any abuses that occur with their personal data. One of the most vulnerable groups on this issue is children who have come into contact with potential dangers on the Internet in the past few years. They're just getting more careless and vulnerable. The Internet today uses children as an extraordinary means of communication and learning, but it is only so if it is used wisely and in controlled conditions. Today, the Internet is at every turn and we all carry our smart phones with us, and that is why we carry a bunch of potential dangers that are actually lurking with shorter personal data. All of us on our phones have installed various applications from Internet banking and other applications containing our personal data and it is extremely important to become aware, to try these data in any way to protect us. Research has shown that every other subject, especially when it comes to children and youth, is not sure whether he himself manages the data he puts on the Internet and whether what he published remains in his jurisdiction. More than a third of respondents tend to reveal their codes and usernames to other persons, and more than half of the respondents leave their personal photos, videos, even phone numbers, email addresses, the name of the school that attend their own addresses. Unfortunately, children are not aware and are asking among other things the data of third parties without their consent, so there are potential problems. In studies conducted, as many as 92% of children and young people are not familiar with any activities or educational opportunities to learn how to protect their personal data and how to protect themselves on the Internet, and in the end they do not know who they can contact in case of personal data injury and abuse of their privacy. Unfortunately, we all live in a virtual world, at every step of the way, we're caught up in information, at every step of the way, and we can run out of data that if any information is stolen from us, we don't see it, and later on, we can have far-reaching consequences with identity theft. The EU has adopted a General Regulation on the protection of European data to be applied with effect from 25 May 2018, which means that even before this House there will be a topic on the protection of personal data, so I call on all MPs to pay attention to this topic and to prepare ourselves as best as possible, to put this regulation into our legislation to protect our children and themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-27-0.u24537	Thank you, counsel Puh. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we continue with the work of the plenary session. MP Tomislav Panenic first called. Here you go.
