ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55984	And now I'm gonna stop there, and I'm gonna give my word to Mr. Glasnović first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55985	The topic of Croatian diaspora, I demand a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55986	You just need to say a little reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55987	I said, Croatian diaspora.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55988	Okay. Mr. Alecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55989	On behalf of the Live Wall and SNAG Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break to discuss the arbitration in Washington which banks have launched against the Republic of Croatia, in the context of the practice of courts in Croatia and the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55990	All right, go ahead. Mr. Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55991	Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the management of the mud from the processing of urban wastewaters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55992	All right, go ahead. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55993	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a 10 minute break, given the intransparentity of the Croatian government's lack of logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55994	Approved. Here you go, Mr. Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55995	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I demand a 10-minute recess to discuss the importance of respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55996	Approved. Here you go, Mrs. Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55997	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club to discuss the new developments in vocational education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55998	Okay. Approved. Mr. Dodig. ... No, no, no, I didn't hear anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u55999	Excuse me. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HDS, HDSB and HSLS to discuss the current political situation and behaviour in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56000	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I demand a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56002	I'm not gonna look around anymore. I approve of the break, until 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Stanku was the first to ask for Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56004	Dear colleagues, today is my obligation to talk about the situation in the Croatian diaspora and what is going on here with us. I went across the street today, saw a poster that says this: "Prejudice is not an obstacle, society without discrimination." And who suffers the biggest discrimination in Croatia? Out-of-house Croatia, 3 million people live outside. It is the largest business branch of the Croatian state and the Croatian diaspora, 3 million of them. That comes at least here 16 billion kuna a year plus another billion euros that isn't registered. They've got these properties, they've got grandfathers, and what's going on? I can't go back, they're not welcome. They could be a motor of modernization to this society, have a whole... The brains are waiting outside, we could take out the land books. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mentioned a nonstop three times at least here. The man who introduced it electronically is this, particles are electronically digitized in Canada 5.5 million particles working for a private company. One man came back, an economist went out to study the economy couldn't find a job here, scrambling it, putting people there with French doctorates, etc. What's going on? It is easier to be an astronaut, become an astronaut than to gain citizenship in Croatia than these people living outside. We're already seeing discrimination. All we need to do is look here. Nit has the Ministry of Immigration, we have 3 MPs for 3 million people out there plus those people from Bosnia and Herzegovina. People would come back. Here from Argentina comes a man, he's got citizenship, a son can't get etc. We have this doorknob 22 Article 16 legally applies to members of the Croatian people. It's hard enough for them to get citizenship, and Article 11 on which the emigration depends until the third generation, you need paperwork. You can cover the whole former Berlin Wall. First you need a birth certificate almost to the blood type, forms, tests, hundreds of questions, and all of this has to be handed over to the MUP. And some wait three years, 29 months. Well, that's criminal! And we're talking about a demographic monster in Croatia. Well, your whole character is empty. I'll go back to '41. There were 132000 Personals, today there are 40,000. Those people are out there. They'd come back, but they can't come back for this bureaucracy forest here. Isn't common sense enough and no one can convince me that it's not intended sabotage from some of the old staff? Isn't it just enough to hand over a certificate of impunity and that's settled later on? ... de facto in the war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From Argentina, they'd come back from Chile and come here. What else? Again that Berlin Wall of these obstacles, red tape, ineffectiveness, stats in diplomacy there, in consulates, embassies. There are no standards. Who estimates the success of our diplomats' work? Any quarterly reports? Where's economic diplomacy? What are these people doing? Some diplomats in some countries, for example, China, who integrated its many diaspora into the entire Pacific district, took these people and they participate in the construction of that state, which is de facto a more communist state. And what do we have? These people are being treated outside as social lepers, these Croats outside the country. Here. We have here a G2 forum that was organized by the Croats outside. They've been there and they've been repeating the same thing for years. You have advice for Croats outside the country who submitted a report to the government, the same thing is happening, etc. Questions like this, here's how many years has it been? Where is the addition of the Republic of Croatia to these people? Where's the addition of the Law on Citizenship? Where's the increased number of MPs? How long are we gonna wait? We're gonna wait for another generation? Where's the Ministry of Immigrants? Nowhere in sight. What about the e-registration register of Croatian emigrants? We still don't have a frame out there as many people as we have out there, how they feel, if they speak Croatian. It's terrifying, it's again deliberate sabotage from old frames and... the regimes that made the front of the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't want those people here. No one can convince me of that. What about direct diaspora investment? E-voting, incentive to return, etc. Nothing again. Just spikes and mere paperwork. And we wonder why we are, where we are. Here, these people are waiting outside, waiting and waiting and waiting so from the '90s, forty-five we have the Croatian state, and this is actually back today in forty-five we are today where we were.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56005	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56006	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Arbitrations are under way in Washington, Unicredit and some other banks have likely sued Croatia for the arbitration, the arbitration centre over the conversion of CHF credit. The EU Commission has already said that this arbitration is the opposite EU law. We have repeatedly pointed out that it is necessary to get out of that arbitration and to highlight the incompetence of this Centre for arbitration. On my parliamentary question, the prime minister replied that nothing has been done so far in this direction, that a decision is pending in the EU court's court case under mark C 284/16, where an arbitration is being conducted in Germany. And if the EU court finds that the arbitration is contrary to EU law, then the government of the Republic of Croatia will make its decision on what to do next with the arbitration in Washington. However, what I would like to stress is that we have no idea that the Republic of Croatia defends itself against bank attacks, because these are indeed bank attacks on the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we have very good court practice starting with France. France has already declared CHF loans worthless. One bank that has placed tens of thousands of such loans is even a criminal prosecution, so a public prosecutor in France has accused the bank of criminal activity and the court is likely to have already brought proceedings against the bank. The Republic of Slovenia is also on the trail of declaring CHF loans to the nobody in the Republic of Slovenia. However, the Republic of Croatia is also on a very good track. So we have the Constitutional Court's decision first, that the conversion is constitutional, secondly we have the Constitutional Court's decision that the collective case of Franak must be returned to the Supreme Court, so the Supreme Court has therefore returned the case to the High Commercial Court and we are now awaiting the decision of the High Court of Commerce in the collective court process and I personally expect that the High Court of Commerce will confirm Judge Radovan Dobronic's verdict because the Supreme Court has requested that the currency clause CHF be examined which the High Court decided not to do for the first time. And I must finally say that there is also a private verdict and this is my personal private verdict since 5 December 2017. In that private verdict, my claim was rejected, so Judge Karmen Topalusic decided that the currency clause CHF is not unfair, but not because it is not unfair but because I have made the conversion. From the reasoning of the ruling, it was very certainly stated that the bank had not agreed with me the credit rules in a way that it had not warned me of the risks and consequences of the agreement of the currency clause CHF, that my claims were clear, understandable and life-saving, that they were not contradictory to the statements of the witnesses of the bank financial advisor who stated that when she negotiated the loan with the currency clause CHF she did not know what risks that credit was with her, she did not know the differences between the exchange clause CHF and the euro and she was not aware of that she could not even warn me of these differences. After all this, the judge writes in the verdict, according to all of this, that loan would be worthless, but it doesn't matter anymore because the prosecutor has made a conversion. So there's an open road for 70,000 people who haven't made a conversion to gain the value of their contracts by judicial means. And it will certainly happen if the High Court of Commerce rules properly, and how it should be declared a currency clause unfair. I expect it to be so. I must say what the judge said after the verdict was made itself, after the verdict of the bank's lawyers and I stood before the judge and she said very simply in one sentence, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia made excellent judgment in the case of Franak when he returned that verdict to the Supreme Court, to me there is clear, such contracts are useless. So the contracts with the currency clause CHF for the first time in a private verdict emphasizes that they are harmless, but because the prosecutor or I am not actually because I made the conversion because the judge decided that I would not be sued for my benefit. But I will complain because “Quod ab initiosum est non potest tract temporis convalescere” “What is wrong from the beginning is never good”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56007	Thank you, too. Mr. Recajmir Varda in front of the club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformists and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56008	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I decided to ask for a break for the club at least I hold that these club breaks in this House are increasingly turning into pre-election party stands or press conferences. But you will allow me to take advantage of the statements made yesterday by my colleague, Stjepan Kovač Mayor Čakovec, and about the waste or as he said to the mafia, but mentioning the city of Zagreb and the mayor, which is about-known to the fact that this is a topic that is here all the time. So it's a public alert, and I have to send a message to that same public. It's also a false and inconclusive state that Mr. Kovac brought out here. First of all, it is not a dangerous waste that is harmful to human health, it is not and it is not true that the company with which the city of Zagreb has concluded a contract for the takeover and further recovery of no contract for the burning of mud does not have an appropriate permit. The licence was issued on 5 October 2015 by the competent ministry and has been verified and is still in force. Third, as regards the disposal and burial of mud for agricultural purposes, it is based on a contract with landowners, in particular the OPGs. According to the waste catalogue rule, this is not about mud belonging to the category of hazardous waste. So it's about the waste, the mud used for agricultural purposes. So there are contracts between the company and the users, so no one can bring any amount, any material, especially mud, without a contract or the consent of landowners. So it's not about poisoning the land of Međimurje or Chakovec. As far as the city of Zagreb is concerned, it is the favorite topic in this House has been conducted under the law of a public tender. Several companies and Kalun Company based in Drnis reported in the public tender. The company Kalun concluded a contract on the acquisition and further recovery of mud from wastewater purifiers, urban waters of the city of Zagreb and this contract was concluded on 10 October this year and the transport of mud for agricultural use began on 25.10.2017. The competent ministry or agency, I checked it kept records of every amount of mud that, for agricultural purposes, is being driven out of the dump. And inspection is under way. If it is established that the regulation is injured in any detail according to the inspection report, it will be responsible for the one who hurt it but with it the city of Zagreb has nothing, with it the city of Zagreb has nothing. He concluded a contract to take over and there's a point. If the competent ministry determines we'll get a hit and I've asked to be delivered to the Mayor of Chakovec personally. But the Mayor of Čakovec is instead of a bomb appeal from this pay phone to poison the people in Čakovec with this mud that is not, which is not dangerous for health, serving for agricultural purposes and meeting all the criteria for using in agriculture, and then we will discuss this finding, looking for responsibility if it exists, not the city of Zagreb, but the company that concluded such a contract. So, And I'm done? [[Thank you, Mr. Varda.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder Radin: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56009	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stephen Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56010	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I think the article 238, my colleague, is prejudicing, calling me. If he'd listened carefully to my speech yesterday, I said I didn't want to prejudge the Commission's inspection results. I haven't got it yet, neither has our police. I don't know, so a colleague has probably already got the results because he's saying it's good, healthy, so if it's so I'll give you two trucks out of my pocket to take you to the yard, to rot your weed nicely, to have green grass that you have summer hair. So, he prejudges and I'm glad that here's Mayor Bandic has a spokeswoman here. We'll see when they get the inspection results, which is exactly what's not there. I didn't prejudge anything, I just said that the public of Međimurje wanted to know why in Međimurje and see all these permits, nothing else. And if the gentleman thinks it's healthy mud, though, like I said, I'll personally pay him two trucks to take them home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56011	All right, but time's up. It was a replica, wasn't it? ... It was actually a replica because, excuse me, don't, turn into replicas, everybody gives their opinion, and in the end we'll see who has the right to do that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But there was no, Article 238 speaks of belittled or insulted by the president or other MPs. No one insulted anyone at that time because it really turned into replicas now. We're not going any further. Mr. Maras, you're already here. Come on in front of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56012	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have to say very clearly here that Croatia is in a worse, worse situation, practically every day the state faces an affair, we shoot at seams, we fall apart and HDZ is more boastful than during Eve Sanader. Look at what happens every day. We have over three hundred thousand blocked, people pushing from their properties, and on the other hand, the government buys two blinded Mercedes for 12 million kuna. At the same time, HDZ Government Andrej Plenkovic raises his pensions by 5 hundred, 6 hundred kuna and on the other hand, the minimumer in the Republic of Croatia at the same time raises 130 kuna. It sends a very clear message. It is far more important for us to raise privileged pensions than to provide people with a decent life. 130 kunas and still stimulates employers to report people to minimum wage. Croatia is the only country, the only country in the EU that stimulates employers with smaller contributions if they report people on minimum wage. After that, Minister Kujundzic tells us that there is no money to treat our citizens, 30 sick children, we had a protest here on Mark's square the other day, I cannot get a few million kunas, which would be enough annually for their treatment. Kujundzic, I would say without any feeling he rejects those people and theirs, these children and their families and puts out their hopes instead of helping them. But at the same time, Croatia has billions of kunas to buy fighter aircraft. Let's move on, EU projects, look in the papers today, we have European projects due to the administration of Minister Žalac, both in railways and in the Pelješko Bridge, there is almost no withdrawal of European funds. But there is a withdrawal of European funds when Minister Murganic needs to promote himself and his ministry by buying packages for St. Nikola and then the packages instead of directly transferring the ministry to children who are intended for it and should be meant for the children needed, she does so in her arrangement through a private kindergarten in which information available in the media is provided by children of her employees, and not in the way she explained it, maybe one of 300 employees and has a child there, but allegedly and ministry officials have their children there or chooses to have private children through private knowledge to spend money, use money from the EU, and thus show a deep injustice that this administration shows every day towards those who should be protected. The minister who is supposed to be in charge of protecting the socially endangered, she shares in a way that she chooses to choose who knows who the private-owned kindergarten is and is there to share those packages from European funds. So every day we have some injustice, some affair, something that shouldn't happen in a normal state, and on the other hand, that's more boastful than it was at the time of Eve Sanader. Prime Minister Plenkovic laughs at citizens when they question him about these things, he says he stands behind Kujundzic, when he doesn't give money for the treatment of children, he says he stands behind Mrs Murganic, when he gives a private kindergarten of EU funds to share packages, he says he stands behind Minister Žalac, who awards tenders to his acquaintances within the ministry that then destroys a commission that does not translate European projects, he says he stands behind Minister Pavic who sends a clear message that 130 kuna is minimal and 500, 600 kuna for privileged pensions. It is this arrogant HDZ power that has no sense for Croatian citizens at the moment our country falls apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56013	Thank you. Nothing but time to respect for me at least. Mr. Marko Vučetic in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56014	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The International Day of Human Rights is marked on December 10th. Although it is not today, I believe it is a powerful symbolism that I am talking about today about the importance of human rights because it is the date we are going towards and human rights and respect for human rights should be the ideal of every action and goal we are going towards. Whether it is our own personal, professional, religious, political or family effort, all our efforts must be to expand the horizon and bring into it the practice of respecting human rights. It's the only way, the only way to design, to purposely and meaningfully act in a way that is serious and that creates man and opens space to man in the world. If we do this, then we act in a noble space and act as human beings. If we don't, then we act as beings who don't allow us to recognize ourselves in another person. It is precisely respect for human rights that in another man we recognize ourselves and recognize another man in ourselves. Without it, it's not possible to take a step. This is usually called personal history. A man without personal history is a man who began to exist in an alienated structure independent of being a party, that is a man who deprived himself of freedom, that is a man who deprived himself of his will, and that is a man who deprived himself of the importance of acting on the historical stage as a free entity because he is unable to respect human rights because he is not able to meet man but is able to act exclusively and hide and hide his own unnecessarily unnecessarily and unworthy intentions. Respect for human rights, that's the act that we raise up the human subject. That human subject is going to the historic stage. In historical terms, this human subject was created in 1948 when a general declaration of human rights was declared. And in 1948, we have a human rights catalog. We have an obligation as parliamentary representatives, as part of the legislative body, as part of the public, as part of our families, as part of our environments, we have an obligation that what is contained in this declaration is contained, that we convert it into practice. It's the only way we act humanely. It's the only way we act noblely. I'll only tell you one example-- so Article 1 tells you that all people are born free, with equal rights, equal freedoms, equal dignity, and that out of this equality, from this gift of reason and conscience, the possibility of the world being our brotherly world, that we create brotherhood. Is there anything more noble that's ever been said in the world than this? Is there a more noble requirement that we can fulfill than this in our actions? Or if we hold a different attitude that only some have freedom, we can't even talk about equality anymore, that they have dignity and that only some have certain rights, we live and promote the beastly world and the beastly horizon. In order not to live in the catalog of caffeine human rights, these are the alienated Balkan dimensions in which we will look at who drinks coffee with whom, and accordingly grant him the rights that he will have, then we have developed a new catalog of human rights but that catalogue has nothing to do in our world. Our world is a world that was created in 1948 with the Declaration of Human Rights, our world is a world in which we will either kill humanity, and then it will be worthless or we will lead to the resurrection of a human subject in every act of ours. And that is why I believe that for Croatia now and here, there is no more important, there is no more current, there is no more invited topic, than the subject of respect for human rights, and that when we discuss, when we think about it, when we meet, when we talk to each other, we talk either in accordance with the catalog of human rights or in accordance with this perverse form, which I called the catalog of caffeine rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56015	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Puh, in front of HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56016	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here at the cabinet session yesterday, a law was passed that would allow for the first time a reform of vocational education. It is the Law on Professional Education, prepared by Minister Divjak and Assistant Minister Vlado Prskalo. Why do I mention the Government of Spray, before joining the Divjak team, Mr. Sprayo, was the head of the most successful school in the Republic of Croatia and Slavonski Brod, which far precedes other schools in withdrawing funds from European funds. But let's go back to the law, why it's important and what its goals are. First of all, the law enables the development of national curricula for vocational education, the establishment of regional centres of competence, the introduction of dual education and stronger learning based on practice, the establishment of a better quality assurance system and the creation of a pedagogical mentor education in the employer. Which means that this law is guided by the thesis that is necessary to get into our everyday life as soon as possible, which is that we create schools for life and not schools for grades. In addition to all these important goals, I would like to look more closely at the centres of competence, why they are important. This law that passed the government yesterday puts almost a billion kuna from the European Social Fund and the Regional Development Fund at our disposal. This is the first time we've made that kind of money available to our schools and the future of our children. I have recently had the opportunity to attend many vocational schools in my Krapina Zagorje County, and I must say, that the opportunities for progress, which these funds will provide, will be enormous. Many in my case, the vocational schools in our county are already extremely high-quality, and by establishing future means of competence, it will definitely become 21st century schools, which I believe is our only hope for the future. In the centres of competence, to a greater extent than before, practical teaching will be represented, and employers themselves will be involved in the teaching process and education. The Law on Professional Education will enable students, by acquiring skills adapted to their professional and personal development, economy and local communities, and all together will feel better, as they will get a future worker with the exact skills they currently need. Not that there's any learning on the machines and techniques of the 70th century. In order to move forward as soon as possible with the withdrawal of these billions of kunas, which are waiting for us in funds, according to our vocational schools and to start investing in the future of our children, I appeal here and now to the President of the Croatian Parliament, to put this point first in the debate. Let us not delay more than a day and a common force as soon as we move to create a better future for our children, and thus a better future for our country. The school must finally become a school of knowledge, as well as a school of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56017	Thank you, too. And before the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, Mr. Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56018	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The topic was announced a current political situation, a gem which can cover everything. And if I were to say just why I chose such a subject, I would say exactly because that theme covers everything, and what I'm about to talk about right now. And I'm going to talk about the current statements here today, let's say, the first fellow Glasnovic, which is why we are here, colleagues Marasa, that the situation has never been worse than today. A statement by my colleague Puh, that we have to have a 21st century school, all of this can be taken as accurate or problematic. But the question is why is it so, why are we here, why has it never been worse than it is, or why we're bonding to have school, for 21st century school. And I accept all that. However, despite the history of having to accept new technologies, we have to keep in mind, there has been more of this innovation, which will make life easier for a person. It's been a long time since we've had the kind of man we want. It took care of what kind of person we raised. I don't see here talking about what kind of individual that must be. Well, I'll tell you what it looks like through our institutions. We have the Ministry of Science and Education, so we have the Assembly Committee on Science, Education and Culture. So we have an education and education agency, we have a science agency, so, of these four significant institutions, there's only one mention of them, of education, where the state needs to intervene. When we put it in the context of a disintegrated family that has no educational function anymore because technically it can't do that. And when we put that in insufficient care for school education, then we have what we have. So, dear gentlemen, a man can be raised in this section to be a responsible member of the community, to be honest, moral, and then all of his technology that both science and knowledge and skills that he will gain can be in the function of good. In a case like this, in what is happening today without an education that is completely neglected or which is completely different direction, we're going to have planes, we're going to have computers, we're going to have everything but we're not going to have company because we don't have education. We don't have an education that, you know, we have a terrible lot of norms. A colleague, Vučetic, spoke of human rights, human rights are declarations, unfortunately today. They never subtly violated human rights like they did today. There have been obvious violations, but so subtle and so systematic never like today. Because we don't have that education in us that's gonna tell us that's not right. The way she can be broken is invisible. And because of this problem of education and behavior in society, the behavior in this House depends on the state of society, and it all stems from that education that we received as a child and we couldn't get it or get it every day. Every day our attitude toward moral values changes because of the collective education and collective consciousness that we are exposed to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56019	Mr. Boric in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56020	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let's look back at the HDZ Club for all we've heard now from colleagues especially from the opposition. And sometimes I wonder who keeps calling us. Mr. Maras, the chief heter of this government, heter with some level of palace policy, without a goal, without results, without any vision just to offend and not to say a worse word or to show that I can say something in this House that day. I tried to get into the sense of what he was going to say, and I failed. Remembering him as a minister and himself as a parliamentary representative in opposition and everything we've been through with him and this government. Four years to determine today that this government is falling apart in seams in some kind of affairs and that it simply didn't deserve to be a government at all if I understood it well. So whose government fell apart in affairs? The SDP government. Let's remember the Spatch affair, the little biscuits, yeah, yeah, and then there was a break-up. It's a road trip. It was an affair, just one in a row. We're not talking about other ministers. It was a government that fell apart in affairs. You've lost seven times in a few years to HDZ. And you're now saying here's this government that's doing its job neatly, has passed a recent recall, so trust, she's got it. We've been through a few of those stages. With all the problems that arise without being or were not possible to predict, they are successfully solved and, of course, it bothers someone. Who's bothering me? The ones who left us as their president says, great. What great condition was that? 80 billion public debt in four years. I kept asking them here no matter what you spent it on? They never gave an answer. They increased it from day to day, year to year. Three years of GDP falling, so that in 2015, when they came down nominally, they would be lower than they took over in 2011 with all their successes. Excessive deficit procedure. Well, it was spent as much as they could, as drunk billionaires used to spend. He says 320,000 blocked we have today. You know how many they left us? Three hundred and twenty-five thousand blocked when they came down and didn't want to admit it like they got some kind of amnesia. He says you've raised your privileged pensions. So why don't you have the guts to say that you raised your hand for that law in 2014? Is it? You have reduced and you have put it in there that when it is achieved three times in a row GDP growth of 2% and when the deficit decreases below 3% that the law requires that debt pensions be returned to the level at which they were. See how they show the truth to the Croatian public? They say the lies all the time that I don't say the harsh word to a liar. And now we must defend ourselves on their laws that they have passed. What's the matter with them? That we raised the minimum wage in a year twice the total of 10%. They're in four years 4.2%. Well, I just don't know if by going into the opposition you lost your memories, if you fell on your head and got amnesia. But the fact is, some people here remember what you did here. So remember, colleague Maras, your promise to open 50,000 jobs. You know how many 80 grand he locked up, didn't open, closed up and went to Las Vegas spent 100 grand kuna and said an affair of some kind or something. I think that Croatian citizens deserve much more than this opposition because I fear that you will only remain a memory in the next parliamentary elections if you do not add up, do not become more constructive and begin to offer some solutions without forgetting what you did and how you acted while you were in power. And only one man's name was El Bahati.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56021	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric's time. Here you are, Mr. Maras, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56022	Mr. Vice President, you should have warned your colleague. So he's been talking to me the whole time and telling me what I'm... The article is 238, as you know it is, and he also knows his colleague as chairman because I just told him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So my colleague talked to me all the time and about what I was saying, and you'll agree that it's not possible as much as you... that he knew in advance when he volunteered for the break that I was going to talk about. He's like this you can see that a man's been promoted, that he gets it, but I'm just convinced that no matter what he can't know what I'm going to say in advance. So you should have warned him, although Mr. Boric is capable of many things, he has been faithfully clapping both to Sanader and to Kosorica he said that he would be filming the HDZ sessions if necessary, now he is doing it for Plenkovic, he is capable of everything, but it is not safe... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56023	Mr. Maras, time's up. I will give you a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boric, but the whole story of these breaks has turned into a standoff for everyone. One day one day, one day the other, so that in the end these breaks actually lost the original meaning that they had where we really rarely asked for breaks and only when a few days earlier big or the same day, and it had its own justification. Today it's the stands, everyone says what they want and you have the right Mr. Maras, and I'm already telling you in advance, Mr. Boric, that you have the right to do the same. Okay? So we can move on, and you can talk if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56024	I just wanted to show you, Article 238, so I'm going to call nice on Rules of Procedure Article 238, as my colleagues do, and I want to be the last one this time. You know what that means? So whenever I answer my colleagues, they have the right as a backup to lift up the breach of the Rules of Procedure and then say everything that hurt them at that time. I know that fellow Maras this wasn't easy and he couldn't listen to all his successes, but I'm going to be just as persistent as he is, even if I've earned a warning that I'm the last one that doesn't let them alone. That's why I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56025	First he asked for Mr. Shuker then I'll give you Mr. Maras and then I'll conclude with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure whatever happens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56026	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As a longtime representative in this House, I say that you have injured Article 236. A Rules of Procedure which makes it clear why a representative may request a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And after his chairman's answers, he must warn him if he is not satisfied with the answer that he has to address the committee and he must then declare whether or not he will object to the committee. If he does not, he shall lose his right to breach the Rules of Procedure until the end of the sitting session. And I think it would be high time for this abuse of the Rules of Procedure to stop being used and for the chair of the meetings to be called to Article 236 and to apply it literally.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56027	Thank you very much. What can I tell you, I'm glad you're all telling me that I was wrong about each other? I feel kind of free to tell you the truth. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56028	Thank you very much. I absolutely support Mr. Shuker in his position especially because Boric didn't say anything about what I am. ... No, no, but 236, I support you absolutely... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 236 each. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Boric did it so he didn't even say what I hurt. So he was obliged to do what you said to your colleague Shuker. I beg you so I just wanted to say, Mr. Vice President, stick to the Rules of Procedure, I support what Mr. Shucker said, and now I ask you to give Bora another minute for him to finish as requested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56029	I said before, and I'm going to stay in the process of creating, actually, I'm the one who said that you're making a circus, which I mean a long time ago with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not giving anyone any more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I'm giving ten minutes off. It's 10.33 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.38 HOURS]] If you're giving me that license I'm going to give, I'd give it, I'd keep working, with our operational work, and it's actually to discuss the laws because that's what the voters are to us, which is to us, that's the task that the people actually entrusted us with. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56055	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Most Club, I'm looking for a break on the Vis Viva project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56056	Thank you very much. Who else is asking for a word? Mr. Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56057	Thank you very much. We're looking for a break because we see that Ms. Secretary is not accepting or offering any apology, we're looking for a break in the affair package.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56058	Everyone has the right to seek a break while such a Rules of Procedure. Who asked for another word? Nobody. Two breaks. 11.13-11.30, break by 11:30. It's 11:00. 13 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] Here, 11:30, Mr. Bull, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56060	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked for a break because there are two major decisions before the government on the biggest energy project that has appeared since the draft of Croatia, which is Vis Viva. More specifically, we are waiting for a decision on whether the project of the private reversible Vrdovo power plant will become strategic and about what will happen to the thermal power plant on Perici, both within Vis Viva. The Committee for Decision-making on Strategic Investments proposed to the Government of the Reversible Hydropower Plant Vrdovo Strategic. But there are several criminal matters in the record from the commission, and I believe that I have to meet them at the Croatian Parliament and the Government. The record reads as a basic motive for submitting applications to applicants reportedly unsettled conditions in land books as well as for allowing land owned by private persons. So what does the land situation have to do with the assessment of a strategic project of importance, a significant project in the Republic of Croatia? Isn't it obvious that the status of a strategic project is not required here in order to skip property legal relations and apply the Law on... Again, the strategic project of the people of Vrdova has taken a land for which they do not have their own fault. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In short, this sentence reads the minutes with the decision-making committee on strategic interests, asking for the status of a strategic project so that we can easily take the country from the owner. Does this government really want to send a message to the Croatian people that strategic policy is based on taking the country to a people and giving the same country to a private investor? In that same report, it is also expected to adopt a solution to the acceptability of environmental interventions as a prerequisite for the establishment of a local authorisation, more than a month before the adoption of the solution itself, on which the commission could prejudge and know that the solution would be positive. And that security came only from the fact that the owner of the project is the minister's husband, current foreign minister, Mrs Buric. This is the decision-making committee's material on conflict of interest. Finally, the Commission proposed to the Government for a strategic project that does not satisfy even the necessary formal conditions for it to be, namely, one of the conditions of application is a certificate of compliance with the obligation to pay taxes, the obligation to contribute and other public fees that Zoran Burić MC of exclusive property does not meet because it is on the list of employers that are not paid to its employees. There is such a project and such a company, the government pushes for a strategic project. The second decision that awaits us next week is an environmental impact study by Termoelectrica Peru. After a series of scientists who showed arguments that the project was catastrophic and not only energy but also the economic and worst environmental ones, but ultimately investment because it would destroy a significantly higher number of investments and after 25 thousand signatures of the population against the project yesterday in a statement even the Split-Makarska archdiocese reiterated the question to scientists and residents of the Cetina region and we are together with them. And about which both the government and the ministry have been silent for a year. Does it mean silently pushing the project and what is the government's position and prime minister's about this project? Mr. Plenkovic, I'm asking you a question from this pay phone, this project has endangered the largest drinking water resource in Croatia. It would also affect a fifth of energy and bioenergy and be the largest energy source in the country. The prime minister cannot have an opinion on such an important project. And I would ask you on behalf of the people, on behalf of the 25 thousand signatories who have sent to all the competent institutions that petition, on behalf of the scientists, on behalf of the people of the Cetin region, on behalf of all these criminal acts that take place through committees and in anticipation of the people about the decision of the Commission on Tuesday which is very important, i.e. Next week on environmental impact study, the people expect answers from a silent prime minister. The only answer we had was from Madam Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic, whom we remember how she responded to me here in Parliament. One hysterical response that will be recorded as the first time that occurred in the Parliament. Gentlemen from the government, the people of Sinj and the Cetina region will fight that this harmful ecological, economic and strategic project does not come to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56061	Thank you, too, for the precision of time. Mr. Mrsic, here you go, in front of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56062	Dear Mr. Vice President, we asked for a break for the club because we feel it is necessary to clarify the issue of these famous packages in one of our kindergartens because it is not a question of whether someone has made a mistake, it is not a question of whether it is a minister's mistake or whether it is a minister's mistake or one of its associates, but rather a question of the credibility of the Republic of Croatia. This is a question of Croatia's credibility in front of the European Commission, because the fund for the most needed is a fund that distributes immaterial aid, non-financial assistance to those most needed. From 2014 to 2020 Croatia has 36.7m euros at its disposal. As part of this technical assistance, there is technical assistance under the programme. But that technical assistance can only be spent the way it's supposed to be. There is no transfer of technical assistance to the items of the ministry, nor can the ministry buy packages from technical assistance and then distribute on its own behalf. It can transfer that technical assistance to the fund itself and buy additional food, clothing and all that. The purpose of this discussion today and the club break is to clear up the matter, see who's lying, whether someone's lying or it's just a mistake. Because in the call for media, Madam Minister, she writes to the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, the children's kindergarten students will donate to the appropriate packages they have co-financed, underlining the co-financing of the European Union from the European Aid Fund for the most needed. And in addition to NOVA TV, when asked about the kindergarten director who brought the presents, the director prepared gifts for kindergarten, not the ministry. Vrtić received his gifts, which is St. Nikola shared. Now let's see who's telling the truth, who's not telling the truth. And that is the goal that we must all have, which is credibility, credibility in front of the European Commission. I am not without the devil in my replica minister, where I expected the minister to say clearly who made the mistake instead of one principled answer. Because the European Commission is very much monitoring the costs of all projects, and among other things there is a Regulation on the acceptability of costs which clearly sets out what can be spent on what opportunity. Here, in the case of a single private kindergarten, they are obviously not respecting the rules of the European Commission or EU rules, regardless of whether it is 1000, 2000, 5000 kuna for the European Commission is the same as having in some way spent a million, two million, ten million kuna. The European Commission sees it the same way. And instead of being on someone's desk already today, and the minister made it clear that we were wrong, we didn't find that out, so these packages weren't funded by the European Fund for the most needed. The Minister explains today that these are the technical assistance funds that the ministry then bought the packages with. But Madam Minister, it is the same mistake, so it is something that the European Commission does not allow. You can't technical assistance that's exactly specific about what she's focused on, you can't spend it on some other stuff. It's a random waste of funds. You have a rule book, that's exactly what it says. And finally, the Croatian public should find out the truth about what happened in a kindergarten where there is no clear need for assistance from this fund, even if it is divided into good intentions, but it is not allowed by the European Commission. And I expect that our European Commission and the SAF at the Ministry of Finance will certainly comb this fund, and on the other hand, the European Commission will probably have its own objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56063	Thank you very much. We're running out of time. You and I both got a leak. I didn't see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56106	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS]] We have one request for a break, dear colleague Stephen Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56107	Thank you. Here on behalf of the SDP Club, I'm looking for a break, given that I've been named today by some colleagues, around this mud management, so here, there are some new circumstances, so I'd like to talk about it. Thank you. I can do it right now, because we had a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56108	Okay. I thank you, if no one would mind, should we immediately take this argument of a break? There isn't. Here you go, Mr. Stephen Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56109	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs. Here, today we heard that when a parliamentary representative, a colleague from the 365 party, I won't name him, he called me and talked about this mud management, that everything's okay here, everything is great, wonderful, so if so, I don't know, next thing you know, a colleague is looking at the inscriptions, today on the portals and the media. He would like to know how they will now comment on the fact that the company, based on the Drniš lawsuit, in the administrative court, has lost its license against the Ministry of Environmental Protection for waste management. Namely, the mayor of Drniš made it very clear that the city of Drniš is developing, rural tourism, that the drive of Luna is 5-6 km from the Krka National Park and there is no place for hazardous waste and its burning, nor was such activity envisaged by the spatial plan and documentation. So now I wonder if she's not in Drnis, so why would she be in Međimurje? We have fertile soils in Međimurje, they're all processed, there's no unprocessed land, and I don't think there's room for that kind of waste either. If this waste is so healthy, so is it good, so why not spray on these meadows in the City of Zagreb or Zagreb County? Will individuals now say that it is acceptable, that Zagreb's waste threatened the eco system, the town of Drniš and dadapa, our mild Croatian national park. Will he say it was a good move for the Međimuri, regardless of the court's verdict. We're still waiting for the inspection report, on whether the mud, regardless of its composition, should have been deposited in our fields, who controlled the process, as they say, is responsible. I personally asked all the competent institutions to be visible, too, here, please, let the City of Zagreb, too, be able to send me to the mail and mail and mayor of my colleague Bandic, to send all the necessary documentation, let's see, because I am here, although they obviously resented it, to represent their citizens, their Međimurci. I think they have the right to know, that the Međimurje public, but all of Croatia has the right to know, why and how this mud is being delayed right in Međimurje, and not elsewhere, if we have heard it, it has been observed. And the Administrative Court has confirmed that the city of Drnish has rejected it. So why should it be put off in Međimurje? I think it really doesn't make sense, every end of Croatia should be equally equal and important and should be dealt with in another way, with the more applicable regulations of the Ministry of Agriculture, very restrictively determining which fields the mud can be put off on. So, only for industrial use, and we know that we have been delayed to the field, which is processed agriculturally, and then, when such fields for industrial use are delayed, a very controlled quantity has to be delayed and extensive soil analyses have to be carried out before the delay itself. We haven't seen those analyses. All of a sudden, we got pictures of someone driving trucks, that mud. We just want to see the complete documentation, all those papers, the necessary permits, and the analysis, and then we'll be able to say, whether it's okay or not. I said I don't want to, yesterday I said I don't want to re-educated any inspection results. But I think the public needs to know what's going on and what's most important in that rule, there are all areas on which cultures are grown for human use, fruit and vegetables. You know that Međimurje, a very fertile region, is one of the most beautiful counties, between the two Mura and Drava rivers and there, people deal with agriculture, grow many cultures, and I really think that Međimurje is not the end, where such mud would be put off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u56110	I thank my colleague Kovac for the explanation of this pause.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63805	Good afternoon, everyone. I can only read the law, then I'll give the word, can I? With your permission, can I? Thank you. Today we will discuss: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 240. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed by an urgent procedure. And in accordance with Article. 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may apply until the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. If you're giving me that license I'm going to give, I'd give it, I'd keep working, with our operational work, and it's actually to discuss the laws because that's what the voters are to us, which is to us, that's the task that the people actually entrusted us with. Do we agree? Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. Here is Minister, Mrs Nada Murganic, Minister of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, who will have an introductory word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63807	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. I warmly welcome all of you and I will present an introductory presentation concerning the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act with the final proposal for a law. This legislative proposal provides for the application of general provisions on the review and termination of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation as well as other rights. In particular, what I need to stress is the objective of adopting the Amending and Supplemental Law of the Social Care Act in particular because of the alignment with the National Reform Programme for 2017 and regarding the redefining of the concept of the Single Centre for Compensation, which was planned as a single administrative point in the relations between citizens and the state in the area of the exercise of rights to social benefits, assuming that the administration of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation from the Social Care Centre in the offices of the state administration. The new concept keeps him... the way in which the right to guaranteed minimum compensation in competent centres for social care is exercised, which requires legal decisions to leave the possibility of its administration in the public administration offices starting from 31.12.2017. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also for the purpose of improving certain legal provisions for the benefit of users of the social care system, we have proposed some and additional amendments and additions to the law in order not only to be one of the reasons, one of the points, but to use this amendment to nevertheless introduce some measures and activities that are aimed at improving our conditions of life for our citizens, we primarily have several provisions concerning precisely the person with disabilities. For this purpose, the salary of persons with disabilities whose right is to be decided shall not be included as income when determining the conditions for the recognition of the right to a personal disability. Starting also increases the level of personal disability as well as the amount of allowance for assistance and care. Namely, what we would like especially to point out here is why we went with a provision exempt from remuneration in calculating the right to a personal disability. It's only because people with disabilities are encouraged and involved in the world of work. In fact, mostly people with disabilities have either little paid jobs or these are jobs at a certain time and sometimes because of this one uncertainty about pay and income from their work they prefer to remain users of a personal disability which in any case may be some security of the right that has been achieved on the basis of their disability but prevents them from being involved in the world of work for the sake of that one uncertainty. We were particularly affected by people with disabilities, young people with Down syndrome who managed to get involved through some associations and in working in cafes, however they could not use the salary as their income for this very reason. People with disabilities have accepted it very well, even in statements they said it was a shift that had been waiting for several years and they believe that this is the direction and the way towards that inclusive supplement that they are all finding so difficult. Personal disability as an amount of 1250 kuna and compensation for care and aid of 500 kuna in a reduced range if, then it was 350 did not also increase for years and 20% of the increase we predicted with the start of application from 1 April 2018. What we also predicted in this law was that a circle of persons who could be recognised as having the status of foster mother who had their child’s status, when the child became a minor, he was an adult, his health and physical condition, so the remaining psychophysical abilities did not improve, remained the same, but because of such narrowed provisions they would remain without that right. Secondly, we have extended the status of carers to both spouses and wives, married and outmarried, as well as those in the same sex communities with the aim of treating older or sick persons in order to obtain quality care, financial assistance as a family but also to prevent accommodation in an institution or to prevent unnecessary institutionalisation if possible and when possible. Also, to improve the availability of social services we introduce a new social service, it is a family mediation. It is like a preventive nature service, it helps families when they are in crisis, and it is actually one possibility of consulting, helping, early interventions by community service centres and has been used very often, mostly in intermediating or deciding on parental care in cases where divorces have occurred but we are now spreading it to other problems within the family, even a child care agreement with parents or other family conflicts and so on. In addition, for the purpose of better consumer protection, the possibility of suspending the provision of social services at home or services centres in the community of a centre for assistance in the home is introduced in the implementation of a decision by the competent authority on the termination of the provision of social services or the enforcement of a solution by the competent inspector on the prohibition of the provision of social services and not only by the termination of the work of those services under the Law on Institutions. Also, in order to protect users and prevent the protection of their property manipulation, we introduce a ban on the conclusion of an agreement on alienation or the burden of real estate in a legal or physical person who carries out the activity of social care or of a natural person who is employed in the activities of social care, their spouses or extramarital partners, life partners or informal life partners and relatives in equal or... A line to the second degree of relatedness because in public very often it was pointed out and unfortunately it happened that for the purpose of providing social services, for the sake of different forms of care, they were taking property or real estate but not in favour of the protection of that person but were working with it in the interest of those who had concluded or were interested in such services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also very often in the public I also have an observation, it is noted that there are marked sometimes manipulations in the exercise of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee, the possibility of abolishing the right to the same if a single or a member of the household in the process of recognising the right has given incorrect or incomplete information on the property or if there has been a change of property or income status without it being reported. For the purpose of ensuring a higher level of legal certainty, the clarity of the rules shall be governed by the application of general provisions in the review and termination of certain rights for the purpose of compliance with other regulations and provisions which have been laid down for the purpose of the identification of the rights of persons with disabilities as already prescribed in the Regulation on the method of skills methodology shall be deleted. Here are the changes that were actually the main cause and reason, and this was a unique centre for cash compensation we also took advantage of the situation, or the possibility that within a certain number of articles that are allowed in accordance with the regulations on the law on amendments and additions, we will introduce some other rights that will allow for the improvement of the status of our citizens or individual user groups. I thank and certainly and in the debate in replicas I am open to clarifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63808	Thank you very much. We've got a series of replicas and then I'll give Mr. Bull the word he asked for. First Mr. Stjepan Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63809	Thank you. So here's from the Association of Blind and Low-sighted Persons of the Međimurje County, they asked me to amend and supplement the Social Care Act to include provisions under which every completely blind person exercises the right to a personal disability for which there is no income censorship, including wages, pensions, copyright fees, receipts through a contract of action, scholarships and other. In fact, the current situation is such that most blind people do not exercise the right to a personal disability because blindness is not treated as a serious disability. The rule is that only those who, with blindness and physical disability, exercise that right and by changes which include only wages as income that will not be an obstacle to achieving the same, are actually excluded most blind persons as potential users, since a very small percentage is included in the labour market and prima pay is already the main source of income different, so please on behalf of the association if you can now and put these changes into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63810	Second replica, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63811	Dear Madam Minister, we have witnessed an event that does not serve the Republic of Croatia. I do not think it is an honor for those who run the European Social Fund and I expect you as Minister but also Minister Pavić, who is responsible for the European Social Fund, to react to this indignity that we saw two days ago. The European Fund for the most needed is a fund that provides non-financial assistance to those who are needed, which in need are poor, which means food, clothing, school supplies. This fund in Croatia has replaced our distribution fund, helping the poorest. His rules... They're very strict. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the rules... do not allow this assistance to be given to those who do not need it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You, as a minister, gave your decision and your subordinates your testimony and were in a children's institution, where you gave help to the poor without the needy being there. And someone has to answer for it. If you do not respond, then you must answer, whoever did it, because what is absolutely certain, that after this European Commission will react in a great way and send us an inspection into the European Social Fund, to see if the funds are being spent, and maybe Olaf has a job to do, about it, because obviously someone has mixed up the pots and that someone has committed crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63812	Thank you very much. Okay. Here you go. Madam Minister Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63813	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Vice President, thank you for asking me this question. I believe that you will now listen carefully and that you will understand what this is all about. In fact, it's terrible that in public space, so much misinformation, we've given so much explanation and explanation about the alleged affair, a package that isn't there. No one saw the packages from our ministry because they didn't exist and there's no affair. I hope that the European Commission will come into control, for the very reason that we have used the European Commission's technical assistance funds for purposes, which are, by paying staff, human resources education, promotion of our activities and programmes from the European Funds, when we call competitions, the education of interested people, who appear in these competitions and information and visibility of European funds. So we've decided that in several of our institutions, institutions, random, chosen ones, because we can't go to everything, bring candy, school literature, for libraries if we go to elementary schools and some petty sanitary material. And we've been going to several institutions so far and we haven't packed packages but we've put it in a large cardboard box, these are gifts, let's call them that, worth up to £2,000, because we're left with technical help, don't nod your head, so listen to me in a straight line, up to £50,000, we've got it left, and we sent it. Now I'm asking you, if the European Fund is advertised like this and it can be shared here to everyone and we can't bring a child candy. So that's what it's all about, to deliberately disqualify and discredit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63814	Madam Minister, time's up, you'll be able to answer later. It's my fault that I have to... [[Intruder: Do not use lies on a personal level, look at this.]] All but in 2 minutes, I beg everyone, both from the executive authority and from the legislature to stick to time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's the minimum we can do. And normally you'll get a chance, there's a lot more to it, and there's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238. Rules of Procedure, disdaining MPs and other people. Mrs. Secretary is a little nervous and I understand she's nervous, but she can't show it. He cannot belittled, nor can Dr Mrsic, nor the other MPs, but he can belittle the entire Croatian public, who saw on TV the day before yesterday, the sprint of State Secretary Mađeric, who is the new champion in Croatia at 50 meters and exiting the back door. And all of Croatia saw that shame. And you can't make us crazy right now, this is Madam Secretary and don't be nervous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63816	Thank you. But you know as well as I do that. 238 doesn't apply until we change the Rules of Procedure. We can't. 238. apply to ministers. It's all the authorities' fault so far, both left and right. But this is the Rules of Procedure, this Rules of Procedure in Article 238 treats only the subject of the answer, answers to what the MPs have said. And I'll read it to you one more time, not for the sake of you who you know for sure, but for the sake of the public. Article 238, I'd like to ask you nicely, so that we don't make a circus out of this House, the public is laughing at us. You know. We want to say our opinions, so let's abuse the Rules of Procedure. So we say this one or that one's nervous. Everyone has a right to be nervous other than that. Who's talking about human rights? It's human right to be nervous too, isn't it? "A representative must not talk about a subject that is not subject to discussion, speak without prior approval of the president, his incursions and otherwise distracting the speaker, start talking about another subject, which he has not received, if he has reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure, belittle or insult the President or other representatives. By your behaviour to deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly, in other ways to disrupt order at the session." Where you see Mrs Murganic here, where you see the possibility of you referring to Mrs Murganic, is not a question, the rhetorical question is. Because you should be reminded otherwise you re-scheduled the order at the session. That's the way. But I won't warn you because I'm tolerated. Mr. Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am sorry that Mr. Mrsic, as former minister, did not read these amendments and amendments to the law, but went to a personal level. I'll remind him that while he was the prime minister's wife, he said he needed to cut to a thinner panty black bread if it was expensive. Do you remember that? Some other motives you're talking about. I understand that you are preparing for the post of president of the SDP, I wish you good luck with that, but I ask you to stick to the subject and I beg you, Mr. Vice President, for the same thing. Because we're talking about the Social Services Act. And I'd like to say one novelty here, and I'd like to commend that in particular. Namely, he's related to the problem of abuse of older people. Thus, the World Health Organization speaks of the problem of abuse of older people and according to all statistics, therefore, financial, or material abuse of older people somewhere between 1% and 9% is cited as the reason for the abuse of older people. And in this respect, I welcome these changes which prohibit a legal or natural person who carries out the social care activity from making a contract with a social service user. In fact, we know that elderly people are vulnerable, that often impaired health conditions are particularly mental health conditions when their ability to manage will and their own procedures are reduced. It also prohibits natural persons who are employed in social care activities, relatives in a straight or lateral line to a second degree of relation, so that I, from the perspective of a person who deals with mental health, would highlight this novelty as one of the most important in these changes and additions to the Social Care Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63818	Thank you very much. Mr. Cellic, here's good I'll say it on your case but these are common phenomena. Please, if you're replicating the minister, replicate the minister, not the other MPs. Just that, nothing else. Don't talk to other MPs because the replicas are to ministers. You are now, you have addressed Mrsic. But MPs do it too often, not to mention that. I'll hang up next time. Mrs. Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63819	Your Honor, the Honorable Minister with his associates. I'm going to ask you first if you've read paragraph 5 of Article 37 of the current Social Care Act. It seems to me that you didn't, that you did happen to have a little slip because you mentioned it, and that's what you said in your opening statement that you're going to be taking care of the property right now. However, it was all already done in 2015. So, then, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Welfare was then done. What was then done was that, because of the introduction or introduction and implementation of the Single Centre for Compensation, certain amendments to the law should also be introduced in the provisions of the Social Care Act. However, it would not bother me so much, but you are also in the assessment of the situation and in the explanation and in the consequences you have just stated something that you will not work through this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, or you cannot work because in this article you are changing only delete the Office of State Administration in the county, or the competent office of the city of Zagreb. And I wouldn't mind giving you this if I didn't feel like you've been having a bit of a stroke lately, just like that happened to you with the packets. So how come Minister Murganic, not that you lied once, you lied a few times? Is it possible that that day...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63820	Let's not do that, let's pick our words. Time's up, time's up. Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63821	Thank you very much, dear Minister Murganic. So, you've passed a law that provides for the abolition of excess regulations. I'm not saying it doesn't matter, but I'm curious to know when you're going to come to Parliament to solve those key problems. According to projections carried out these days, Croatia will have three million inhabitants in ten years and perhaps a hundred thousand more. You, as Minister of Demography, should therefore protect women on maternity leave and maternity leave. If you didn't know, there are statistics these days that 55% of women who are pregnant get fired. So now I'm interested in what measures you've taken, when we're going to see you in the House again to do something about it because I believe that in a demographic situation like this, which is so disastrous, women who want to give birth should be rewarded and protected from society. At the very least, they should be equal to other citizens, and here we see that they are very underrated, even humiliated and in fact heavily demoted to become mothers at all. How long will they suffer from the practice that employers question young women as police officers and even condition them to enter into labor contracts with that, with a promise that they will not become pregnant. And how long will this practice take place that most young people have to work, so the contract on a specific basis is to avoid the fact that they can't quit pregnant women, but that they can then let the dead cold ones run out of work and then they don't have to renew it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63822	Thank you very much. Jeck's, I think, Mrs. Jeck's, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63823	Dear Vice President. Madam Minister. Here is a real opportunity when we talk about these amendments and amendments to the law to point out a positive example, which is the employment of disabled people, or the possibility that wages will not be counted as income when determining a personal disability. This opens up a space for employment of disabled people and others. What would thus make the quality of their lives sure I am improving, first of all I mean in relation to being in a period of technological progress and innovation. However, what is an additional problem may well be the obligation that exists, which has been established by the Law on Professional Rehabilitation where there is a obligation to hire persons with disabilities, so all those companies that employ more than 20 employees have a legal obligation to employ between 2% and 6% of people with disabilities. Of course, the problem with this legal provision is its implementation or not implementation, so we often have a situation where there are just such legal persons who deliberately or accidentally avoid this legal obligation. In any case, I reiterate, it is commendable that this possible salary will not be counted as income for the identification of personal disability, and I am sure that this will affect my dare to say unquality Okay. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63824	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jeckov. And finally Mr. Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63825	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Here I must commend this law here, and I am pleased to have it followed by an urgent procedure because there are a whole series of articles that will significantly improve social care and its implementation. Here I would mention specifically, I'm sorry that one problem has not been implemented, I don't really know if it can be regulated through this law. In particular, the person has multiple sclerosis, the mother is retired who cares about her has a very small pension, the disability is there but all together when she sums up not enough money to function the family. Since a person gets a pension, he can’t have that working relationship as a nurse’s mother, so could there be any more room for such people in the future who really live modestly from modest pensions that can only be a few hundred kunas to help such individuals? But here I have to look back at my colleague Alfirev and my colleague Dujic and Mrsic who are fantastic... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63826	We can't do that. That's not the point of the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63827	The point of the debate is the subject, I'm talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63828	But it's not a debate it's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63829	If you let them let me, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63830	It's a replica, it's not a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63831	Yeah, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63832	Replica Minister, please, you have so many topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63833	I want my time back in 30 seconds. So colleagues found one fantastic affair as well as when we had an affair of curicula reform, so they pulled 20,000 people out into the streets who have no idea why they got out. Now they're having a problem, fellow Tracker's problem is you... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63834	We can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63835	If these are the topics we will place in the Croatian Parliament, it is an honor. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... And what bothers you is that it's a Catholic kindergarten... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63836	Mr. Zekanovic, you have a warning. One more reminder and you can't talk about this subject anymore. I'm sorry, but you brought it on yourself. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Zekanovic, injured Article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63838	I gave him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63839	Can I? And what are you gonna tell me if I can or can't? I know you think you can do anything, but you can't. We have a Rules of Procedure. Well, I'm not gonna ask you for sure if I can talk or not. A colleague, Zekanovic, injured Article 238 of the derogation from the usual rules of conduct in the Assembly. I'm sorry that it's normal for the government to take the poor kids to give to those who have, and here I am sorry that they're not the norms of behavior in this society and we can't behave like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63840	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you have a warning, write down this other note. And you have a warning to make. And now we're going with the fact that some MPs were looking for a word probably for a break. First Mr. Bull. Now I'm going to give the word to Minister Murganic, who asked for five minutes to respond to all the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63842	Here's a thank you, dear Vice President. It is clear that this debate does not go in terms of the agenda, but the issue of a package affair that does not exist through the agenda is being addressed. Therefore, packages do not exist and there is no affair and means of technical assistance in terms of information and visibility of EU funds are properly and properly targeted. And that public can be without worry. This has been done by all other bodies that have either the implementation or management of European funds in such a way as to stick to products in terms of visibility and promotion of the EU. We are pleased that we gave gifts not only in this kindergarten, but also in earlier institutions and earlier in kindergartens, and up to 12 months we will visit some other institutions. I don't know if the problem is obviously just this kindergarten, but you guys know that. As for the rest of the debate regarding the request of the Association of the Blind, I must say that disability evaluates the body for art and we cannot assess in advance whether the blind person has the remaining psychophysical abilities enough to exercise the right or not to exercise the right to a personal disability. But this proposal of yours regarding copyright fees, I think it's possible because it's already been amended and asked to introduce it as one of the options with the exception of pay. About my colleague, Alfirev, and her question about whether or not I read it, I did, I read it. However, it is something that has not come into effect, so we delete, so the single compensation centre has never entered into force, has never been put into office, and then those provisions that are related to the guaranteed minimum fee and all that are related to the guaranteed minimum fee are deleted. Yes, I know it's a confusing law because it's been about this particular problem of a series of changes, but in a future now comprehensive law, we're going to sort it out and all of these changes and additions are going to be put into one single law. I won't comment on the way you spoke to me as a colleague, that's your choice of words, and I'm sorry that from this kind of activity we come with a vocabulary like this. Commissioner Bunjac has raised the problem of demographic problems, I think you've seen that we are extremely involved in this problem. The labour law has all these provisions prohibiting discrimination against a woman who is prenatal or planning pregnancy, however, I agree that our employers sometimes really discriminatoryly treat a woman, a young woman with different enquiries and you are completely management, but we also have to act as a social community, but also in amendments and the Labour Act put stronger provisions and even with those criminal provisions, and in that sense I fully support your remarks and your debate. It was also a question of employment quotas for people with disabilities in relation to the number of employees. That's what the MP had, that it's sometimes employers tended to commit to paying so-called. let's say fines, but I must honestly admit it is not in our jurisdiction but this ministry has a problem with persons with disabilities. However, these funds that are thus accumulated should, among other things, be directed towards employers to adapt space and working conditions. Sometimes when they want to, they don't have enough space for a disabled person to get a job. Short about the fee, that there is still in the Law on Social Care... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63843	Thank you very much, Mrs. Murganic, but you have five replicas again. After that, you will respond to the replicas if you want to and we will vote later. Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63844	Dear Minister, you have been competing with yourself for several days, how to explain something inexplicable. You've outdone yourself today. You say here now at the pay phone, the packages don't exist, the affairs are gone. The packages don't exist, and we all saw on TV, in shows in the journal that the packages exist and that you shared them. A colleague Mrsic quoted you as calling for journalists, and that call was not made by me or my colleague Mrsic, by someone from your ministry. Zagreb, December 6, 2017, call for media, visit by Minister Nada Murganić to the children's kindergarten "Bladan Hozana" the last item of this call reads "The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy will donate children's kindergarten students to the appropriate packages co-financed by the EU from the European Aid Fund for the most needed". Well now, Mr. Murganic has a very simple solution, to say that there was a mistake, we shared packages we shouldn't have or we sent the wrong call. This is the wrong thing to say in this call, we made a mistake in the ministry, and we apologize. And whoever's doing this and he's wrong, and we'd figure it out, it's human. But to try to work now from the MPs of the fool and from the whole public that you say the packages don't exist, if you'll excuse me, you've outdone yourself here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63845	Thank you very much. The other is Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63846	Thank you very much. Coliga Murganic, you said in your debate that the affair is being fabricated, I see that you are in line with Prime Minister Plenkovic who calls for everything that happens hybrid warfare and the fight against him in the media space, but here the fact is very simple. So the fact is that you organized the distribution of packages, the fact is that those packages were shared by an official from your ministry who avoided giving an answer on the spot about what was going on there. The fact is, and you deny me that your closest associate is a beneficiary or her family of that kindergarten, you can deny it because it also says in the media. You say that's not true, but that's all that's been said and what unfortunately casts people's suspicions that something has been done in a transparent way and that something has been done unfairly. Well, it's not the only kindergarten in the Republic of Croatia or in the city of Zagreb where children with weaker property are going, especially if you've shared your children, and you haven't shared in some kindergartens where you could really share something with children who don't have anything. If you really thought through certain or church or association to share packages, I guess it's done a day earlier than St. Nicole. So if you come to St. John's Day, Then you share as Santa Claus or St. Nicholas. Nikola and you give the children packages, but you must not do this with EU funds and you must not donate those under the film to those who are not. And admit the mistake, say we shouldn't have done it and don't pretend like everything's okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63847	Would you like to answer that? Here you go, Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63848	Thank you. First, yes, we went to this kindergarten on call, there was a marking of St. Nicole. My closest associate you're targeting has a 10-year-old child. ... There's no other way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We don't, we don't, you tell who has a little kid to go to kindergarten, I haven't seen him. Third, it's not sure that it is, but it's not the criteria to choose a kindergarten. I repeat, we went to Kistanje to school, we went to the institution in Nazorovo, and we're going to some other facilities, I don't see why this kindergarten is a problem, that's the only reason you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63849	Okay. I think kids should believe in... That's all I know from the whole story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63850	Mr. Vice President, I agree that children should believe in St. Nobody, not the ministers or anything else. But Madam Minister, you lie and you get involved in your lies and you never get out of it. Because the day before, the day before, the day before, the day before you were in Nazor, it was your deputy not you and there those packages were appropriate. [[Intruder Radin: But let's choose the words, Mr Mrssic.]] You're saying why I used the hard word, from what you said about those stickers being funded by the Fund for the most needed glued to gifts that weren't bought, you said so yourself, which wasn't bought by the European Social Fund. If you're driving around Zagreb, then you'll see these buses that say bought by EU funds, cohesion funds. So it can only be glued to what has been purchased by EU funds. It is not any promotion but it is a sign that what someone gets is from EU funds. And you're breaking the rules of the European Social Fund. I'm telling you all the time don't ignore this. This is not your affair, this is an affair between Croatia, the prime minister and the government. It seems a little small to you, but it's big because you're using funds for something they're not meant for. For this reason, say Romania a few years ago, it suspended all funding from the European Social Fund. And don't let those who need money from the European Social Fund get it because they will block the European Social Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63851	Madam Minister wants to answer if I understand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63852	Okay, this is obviously going round and round and round and round, so the same way of buying, the funding was in this institution that you just mentioned. So you don't have to worry, I would like to, and we will certainly ask that this be seen by the European Commission, or their representatives, control, managing bodies, and as you say by SAFU. Because that's what we are, it's one of the usual forms of promiscation that we consider useful and we have not only the right but also the obligation. I'm really trying my best, even as you say I'm nervous or a lot of things to be polite and out of everything on that personal, female, human level wonders your choice of words. We only have different opinions, and that's why I didn't characterize you or your words the way you do mine even though I don't agree with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63853	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63854	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. So if the biggest affair you're going to have is an affair of imaginary packages, then you're actually the best minister. And this affair is the most about those who invented it. It's about the problem that some kids are in a Croatian kindergarten, I'm going to emphasize here, a Catholic kindergarten, it's very important to emphasize, that we know who they're shooting at and what's really a problem, which is the gift of St. Then we're happy and happy company. I have to really congratulate everyone here who attacks you on one fantastic selection of topics, let every time you come to the Parliament or your fellow ministers when they invent a similar theme about photocopying, about the division of pencils, about invented chocolate sacred nichols, these are topics that we need that will make society better for you. So I think this topic and its choice and this spending time on this topic is, talks first of all to those who place this topic and I repeat to you if it's your crime, then you're the best minister there is right now. And yet I'll conclude, I don't think it's a problem that Croatian children in a Croatian kindergarten allegedly won the chocolate St. Nikola than it is a Catholic kindergarten.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63855	Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63856	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, therefore, it is doubtless that the packages were in kindergarten, no doubt that they had the EU flag on them, it certainly said that they were for the most needed. What is contentious in this, is not the question that the packages are given to someone, God forbid all people get holiday packages but the thing is, God forbid all people get holiday packages, but the thing is, do you really think that children who have the opportunity to go to private kindergartens that they fall into the most needed. Maybe that's true and possible, but what was definitely wrong and what actually started this whole affair were two facts, two details. One is that Mrs. Mađerić fled to the back exit in a completely caricature way, and the other is that you also went out the back. So I'm curious as to why a minister at the end of the day, any honest person is afraid to walk through people and look them straight in the eye. Why don't you go through the raised heads and simply, therefore, accept other people's views. So this was like what we're hiding what happened, and you know it's a rule when you try to hide something then it's just like pointing your finger at it, and then everyone looks in that direction at what you're trying to hide. So it's obvious that a guff was made here, guff himself is not a crime. But given the high standards that government members must have, you should react differently than to now, as you say, spin around in circles and get involved even deeper and give the material to the MPs here to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63857	Thank you for your time. Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63858	Thank you. I'm really glad we're getting involved, so I have a chance to say something that I said yesterday in the journal in front of those reporters who made a contribution like this, but clearly it's not worth it because you're not listening. So, I didn't escape the back exit, I even welcomed the journalist when I was leaving, and that was my statement on TV news in Dnevnik and broadcast live. And what's more, in front of one of the four media outlets, I was making a statement on a few subjects, and I didn't ask about it. It would never occur to me to run away from the press. And the way I'm standing in front of you right now, I was standing in front of that same reporter, and she knows it because she had a witness when I left. So, I'm glad you're still calling me for this. Someone who's well-intentioned will hear that. I would ask you why you discriminate against children who fight discrimination. Children are in that kindergarten because there are not enough other kindergartens and there are certainly different children. The stickers are FEAD's which is called for needy, and this was brought in to be divided according to intent, or according to the assessment of those who work in kindergarten. I didn't get caught up in anything, and I'm not afraid to look into anyone's eyes for my work. I'm in social activity for 38 years, and I have a lot of years to live. You can judge me, my work, my political commitment, but on a personal level, I wouldn't want to be accepted if I wasn't offended, because I never do that to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63859	Thank you very much. Pause until 12.15 and then vote. MEETING AT 12:00 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63860	Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. So, the committee reporter or you're reporting on behalf of... As a committee reporter? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63861	Honorable Vice President, MPs. So, as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Care, I will only say briefly that, as the parent body of this law, he also discussed the Committee on Health and Social Policy in the Croatian Parliament, on which the opening statement was submitted by the Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, announcing in 2018 the creation of a comprehensive and comprehensive Social Care Act, in which all of the measures and additions would be regulated and put into uniform law. Therefore, the objective of the law in question is now to comply with the national reform programme for 2017 relating to the redefining of the concept of a single compensation centre, which was planned as a single administrative point in the relations between citizens and the state, in the area of the exercise of the right to social benefits, assuming the transfer of the administration of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation from the Social Care Centre, in the offices of the state administration. The Deputy Advocate General, since we have also called the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, has met the members of the Committee with proposals and objections from the Advocate's Office on a legal proposal concerning the extension of the circle of persons who may be granted the right to the status of guardians in such a way that both marriage or extramarital may be recognised as formal or informal life partners of persons with disabilities. They are also praised but the need to extend these rights to other family members, such as brothers, sisters, or children. In addition, in relation to the proposal to be paid by the person whose right is to be decided on, it is not an income when determining the conditions for the recognition of the right to a personal disability that is required not only to be exempt from wages but also from copyright fees, work contracts, etc. Answering the question, the minister supported those remarks by considering them justified, however, because of the financial situation, it is not possible to address everything in a satisfactory manner. Regarding the expansion of the status of carers, she explained that the main objective of the bill is to encourage people with disabilities to become more involved in the work world. If we are to extend this right to children, the question arises when young people will approach the world of work because it separates them from it. In further discussion, the Commission particularly commended the measures aimed at improving the quality of life of people with disabilities and related to increasing the level of personal disability and the amount of aid and care allowances that have not increased in years. It will now increase by 20% starting on 1 April 2018. The debate also sets out observations on a proposal imposing a ban on a legal or natural person who carries out the social care activity not to enter into a contract with a social service user on alienation or the burden on the property of a user. It is commendable that manipulation has been observed in this area and is trying to prevent them, but attention has been drawn to the need for clarity of legal expression so that there is no further abuse. In this regard, however, the problem of abuse of a life- and life-restraint contract has been raised, however, as far as the Social Care Act is concerned, they are subject to the Law on Mandatory Relations. After an extensive debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63862	I thank the presidents of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, Mrs Ines Strenji-Linić. Anyone else from the board? He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63863	In front of us is the Honorable President, once again, of the parliamentary representatives who are still here, respected ministers with associates, the first and second reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act is urgent. What I would like to commend is an increase in the amount of personal disability and the amount of aid and care allowances that haven't increased in the last 18 years. It will now increase by 20% starting on 1 April 2018. But what I want to point out is that it is obvious that neither the hasty start of paying off the increased personal disability from 1.1.2018. Wasn't the reason for this hasty adoption of this law. We regret that it did not approach the adoption of a new full social care law that would systematically resolve, for example. the question of the level of appropriate social benefits and the determination of the maximum amount of compensation, as it restricted pensions only, the issue of special custody, the right to the heating of users of social care services, the legal position of family centres, social arrangements, the possession of vehicle users and the exercise of rights and protection of certain categories such as e.g. Roma, homeless people, persons with disabilities or other permanent changes in health conditions, persons with mental disorders and a number of other issues which are subject to legal regulation and which has been partly confirmed by the great public interest we could see while this law was in the draft e-consultation. Therefore, the key problem of the law is the level of social benefits and its availability to certain groups, their height does not enable the settlement of the fundamental social needs of citizens and the position of persons incompetent and multi-member families and persons with disabilities of the users of the welfare system. For example. The currently incompetent single person receives 920 kunas guaranteed minimum fees while 2 members of the household who are both working incompetent receive 960 kunas guaranteed minimum remuneration and the amount of minimum household benefits guaranteed cannot be greater than the gross minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, which is why multiple households are particularly threatened. The draft proposal also contains provisions to protect users and prevent manipulation of their assets, to enter into agreements on alienation or burden of property with legal and physical persons carrying out their social care activities, which we particularly support in the club MOST independent lists, which is finally resolved by this law. However, this law cannot fully redefine the notion of life-long and life-long restraint that has been around for years and, in fact, the cause of human rights violations of our older citizens, which we cannot continue to remain silent about. Therefore, the Law on Mandatory Relations, which should also be changed urgently in this work, is considered to be something we should certainly warn because pensioners and other elderly persons are exposed to the abuse of the abstention institute and as recipients of maintenance are rarely exposed to injuries of dignity, fraud and abuse by the abstinence provider. It is commendable that this law finally makes it impossible, as I said, to enter into a life support contract concluded by social service providers, social care centres, private homes, foster parents and their family members, that's good. We regret that most of the comments made by professional organisations, there was a broad discussion of individuals and the institution of the ministry replied that the above comment was taken to note that, through continued monitoring of the impact analysis of certain provisions of the Social Care Act, the need for a full improvement of the same, etc., is being initiated by the Ministry for the development of new regulations, which will also be discussed in accordance with the competence and available financial resources of the state budget. We therefore believe that the proposals of individual institutions are important for further development of the social care system and that their proposals really need to be systematically considered and tried to implement the new comprehensive Social Care Act as it is adopted. We believe that some other articles needed to be amended, which would allow for a more humane life for some of the more vulnerable groups in our society. I regret once again that there is no respect for the counsel's recommendation for children, in relation to the exercise of the right to parent status, which is not covered by this draft bill. Thus, a child with disabilities should not be limited to time, which can be spent in an educational program of kindergarten and school, for the purpose of achieving this right of his parents. We believe that there is a need to make a clear distinction between assistance and care services, provided by the parent nurse and support services, provided by assistants in teaching, i.e. helpers for a child with disabilities in kindergartens. The example from practice shows different interpretations of this right, so some units of local and regional self-government and school, interpreting that parent, carer must also provide teaching assistant services, i.e. helper in kindergarten to his child. For the sake of equality of conduct, this should first be brought into line with the educational rights of children with difficulties. Regardless of the right to parent status, the parent provides help and help to the child while professional assistance services, to include the child in the preschool and school system provides for this educated person, assistant in teaching or kindergarten. Therefore, the meaning of inclusive education and support systems for children with disabilities promotes and develops child's independence, independence and activity, not recommended, that this type of support be provided both by parents and family members. What she would have actually added, that I am sorry, that there has not been a change in Article 70, which is therefore, which should be changed, therefore, in the event of the termination of the right to the status of parent or carer or parent, the carer has the right to compensation for another 6 months counting from the next day of the death of a child with developmental difficulties or persons with disabilities. These days just actually have been and have been faced with one story in recent weeks, which was on this subject, which has come public, but in fact, we think that parent nurse, it's bad when something comes to the public and only then we draw attention to one problem, maybe it should have also been put into this law, if the promoter didn't see it before. We believe that a parent nurse, or guardian whom his child, who is dying, does not have the right to exercise leave or temporary inability to work provided for by the law on maternity and parental support and the Law on compulsory health insurance. Since such parents, often after years of care and care for the child, have almost no life of their own, their deaths remain without the only source of income, and mentally, for a long time, they will not be able to adjust to new health groanings and start seeking employment. For this reason, extending the status of foster parents, for another 6 months after the child's death, would provide them with immeasurable assistance and support in life and as an incentive to find motivation for re-socialization. So, too, it may have had to be solved, but it wasn't covered, but I have to draw attention to it, so the Social Care Act, it's prescribed that a homeless man who stays in the night, has the right to a minimum fee guaranteed, unlike homeless people in the shelter. So, the lodging can, the one who's at the shelter can't. According to the recommendation of the Ombudsman, in the 2015 and 2016 annual report, it is also proposed to allow homeless persons at shelters to receive minimum compensation. That hasn't been adopted. According to the Ministry of Demography, of the total number of homeless, 226 of them in Croatia, 101 are located at the shelter and 122 are staying at the shelter while 3 persons are on the half-day stay. They're all homeless. But these are ministry figures, and there are other statistics. According to Croatia's homeless network estimates, there are currently more than 1,000 homeless and homeless people in Croatia. The total capacity of the shelter in Croatia is 420. All capacities are filled. Some 500 people live on public areas in large cities, but also in cities where there is no accommodation for the homeless. If this number of homeless people were counted by ethos typeology, that's one international typeology we'd come up with a figure of 7,000, if not more. So it's a typeology, which homeless people also think is temporarily placed in institutions that don't have a certain residence. People living in flats without electricity and water, campsites, basements, not conditional apartments, garages, business premises, hostel forms of long-term accommodation, etc. So, what we have proposed as a bridge of independent lists, we believe that an article should be amended. 54 which should be read, the right to a personal disability cannot be recognised by a child or an adult who has been granted a accommodation or housing service in accordance with the provisions of this law and other regulations, because we consider that a personal invalidity, a personal status right, is acquired on the basis of disability rather than the basis of social status. Therefore, it is a personal disability, inviolable and inalienable right of persons with disabilities, and one of the conditions, in order to achieve the right to equalise the possibility of persons with disabilities. One of the amendments that we also postponed was that, that means, you're exempt from winnings, except the salary to be in art. 55. except behind the word pay, to add the copyright fee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The law, a positive shift has been made since it is predicted that incomes that are not included, in determining the conditions for recognition of rights, will be included in the personal disability and paid. However, I believe that the proposed proposal should also be complemented, in a way to include the copyright fee, as a type of monetary income in persons with disabilities, which a person with disabilities can achieve, for example, work and participation on certain projects. So he had persons who were working and who would now be allowed to continue, as a personal disability, as well as their own right to continue to receive. We really support that, and that's a positive shift. We believe that one part of people with disabilities earns a certain income in houses, means in some space or within some associations and organizations, where they are paid not on the basis of salaries, but through an author's fee, and we think it's also what he earned, and that personal disability is something that he gets because of his disability and therefore should also be excluded, so we should continue to receive one another. So the Most Club believes that it is necessary to access the comprehensive draft of the new Social Care Act, we believe that the legal provisions should be harmonised with the strategic documents and recommendations of professional organisations in the social care system, the Association of Professional Chambers and the proposal of the regiment and the special defenders in this legislative proposal that we expect next year, and we suggest that you adopt these amendments that I have read to you which will do something a little better to define and allow a better quality life for people with disabilities, people who are actually talking to this Social Care Act, which are particularly vulnerable groups and children and homeless people and all those who are in danger, actually need this care. The law is a good step we expect even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63864	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63865	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, at the end of your debate, you well noted the need to pass a new law on social welfare. I fully agree with you on this because you mentioned both the personal disability and the parent status of the care provider, thus improving those rights. I think it is necessary to know that at this point in time and definitions and the improvement of all these rights could not be done for the reason why a definition, definition of disability and decisions that will be made by persons with disabilities and who will have the right of children with disabilities or their parents to parent status. All of this could not have been done until, in the end, the unique body of art or the Office of Arts was able to work on new methods of art. Finally, this happened, it was a prerequisite for changing all the rules that we here in the Croatian Parliament will have to change because of new methodologies, and therefore all these rights will indeed be adequately resolved in the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63866	Thank you, dear colleague Lukacic. Reply from my colleaguetrinja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63867	So I really just wanted to draw attention to it moving with this change of minimum fees of 1.4, maybe we had time to wait and pass a comprehensive law. A law in which I expect a position and certain other categories to be resolved, for example. which are not defined, which is e.g. I was at the International Conference today on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias because we must be aware that in Croatia more than 90,000 people have some form of dementia. These persons, especially one daughter, came to tell me that she couldn't join because her mother said that she had arms and legs couldn't be a member of a disabled society, let alone a right, people who couldn't take care of themselves. So our growing Croatia, where the growing number of older populations is already 17.7% in '61. We were over 65 years of 6.2%. Imagine how young we were then. We age, the young leave, an increasing percentage of them, for example. It starts to have cognitive disturbances and at the end of dementia, so the groupings we've kind of left out for years. The awareness of it must be clear. Here I am calling and telling the minister that I will initiate because a national strategy must be adopted to combat Alzheimer's disease and other dementias that must be an interactive common approach and concern and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Demography and the family because, for example, You don't have any medication for people with dementia right now, it's too scary. So no drug is on the list that can be free. So many things need to be resolved through a new law and I expect it to be in some way complete with all these remarks that will be very much contributed to a more quality law that we need to pass next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63868	I thank my esteemed colleague for the response of Strena-Linić. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Marija Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63869	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So this law actually just touched some changes that should bring a better quality attitude of the state towards people with disabilities. We at the SDP Representatives Club support the amendments and additions made to the Social Care Act, especially those concerning provisions relating to the rights of persons with disabilities. We also support the adoption of a more comprehensive amendment and the addition of the Social Care Act, as you have announced next year, because it is not only good for some groups of users to recognise a certain right, and others do not recognise the same right. What exactly is this about? The significant part that we support is the one that relates to the increase in the amount of personal disability which is really positive and is 20% higher than the previous amount. This is certainly positive because given that no amount of personal disability can actually cover the significant expenditure that a person with disabilities has and they are different. So someone will certainly have a greater need for care, another person will have a greater need for inclusion in the world of work, a third person will have a need for something else. And I think that's actually the direction in which we should go with the changes and the additions, by harmonising with what already exists in Europe. However, in this regard, the Institute or the right to a personal disability has only slightly drawn close to the basic sense, which is that the personal disability is the right of a person with disabilities and should not be subject to the use of other rights under the social care system. By acknowledging this right only to some we are moving away from a fundamental goal and that is actually equating opportunities. Now called a personal disability or later in the future an inclusive addition is actually that, that key institute, that's what, that's that provision, that's the right that equating opportunities can be achieved and that's very important. And that is why we believe that the personal disability is inviolable and inalienable right of a person with disabilities and that a person should be followed wherever she is. So when we say it wherever it is then we'll definitely support the insistence of all those associations that speak, especially here we mention, and they were also in, on e-consultation in remarks. So the Autism Association, which also goes for the right to personal disability, is therefore asking to delete the article, paragraph 2 of Article 54, of the right to a personal disability so that it cannot be recognised by a child or an adult who has been granted a service of accommodation or organised housing for that very reason. The Ombudsman for people with disabilities also pointed to this problem as well as to a more comprehensive approach to amendments to the Social Care Act, which should take into account the National Strategy for Equalisation of Persons with Disabilities. Although this is not the subject of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Social Care Act, it is also important to mention this and follow from previous provisions, so it is also related to international ones, here soon International Day of Human Rights, which is a fundamental right, human rights, the right to work and employment. I would like to mention here and this is a significant group of people with disabilities who are users of accommodation, and it is mostly about people with intellectual difficulties who are users of accommodation or organised housing and by applying a valid law in case, for example, they are employed and paid, they are not able to keep either their whole or part of their salary, but they must use it to settle the costs of accommodation or housing. If we take into account the objective of deinstitutionalising the social care system and involving users in the community, the aim of supporting users is to achieve the highest degree of independence then it is precisely employment through the Labour Treaty or those persons who are located in a social care facility or in an organised housing path towards achieving independence and exiting and housing or organised housing because I think we should really take care of that, so by ensuring such an option the system will get, so it will benefit because it will allow the person to get out of the social care system and I think that's our goal. If a person has to work without the pay being seen, it is difficult for them to remain motivated for further work. There's no need to ignore the fact that it's a basis for so-called. to base himself on so-called. The allowance has not changed, and it continues to amount to only 100 kuna per month, which is a really ridiculous amount that just in the proposed way may be mitigated. If persons could retain their salary regardless of whether they use accommodation or organised housing services, we would have a similar situation as with the recognition of the right to personal disability regardless of pay. Clubs, look, it seems to me to be something we could take care of next year when we talk about adopting a new Social Care Act. The club also welcomes the increase in the amount of compensation for assistance and care by 20% compared to the amount so far, which encourages the already-started process of deinstitutionalisation and retention of persons in need in their own home and their own environment. Here in this proposal, the right and the status of guardians are recognised by the spouse or extramarital second, formal and informal partner of the person with disabilities. And here I would say fortunately, and thanks to the intervention of individuals and associations, you corrected that initial earlier proposal that was in a consultation where you left out formal or informal life partners. It is also a positive extension of activities that can be carried out by a service centre in the community, because it is also, they are also outside of the institutional social service and they really contribute to a positive Community support process. Family mediation is also a social service, which has its place and need, so we see no reason not to find it in the Social Care Act. However, here's the remaining time, I would point out what a club of representatives disagrees with and cannot support, which is giving up a single compensation centre. As an integral part of the National Reform Plan, which was then agreed with the European Commission, it was imagined that almost 10 billion kunas that are going on a fee should be targeted in a high-quality way towards reducing the risk of poverty, and that in one place different cash compensations are united. Compensation from different systems, and it's almost 70 different fees. The first fee to be converted into a single compensation centre was guaranteed a minimum fee, and then, over several years, other data were expected to be withdrawn. After the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act in September 2015, after the social care centres had done a lion's part of the job, to re-examine the right to guaranteed minimum compensation, these future, current governments, had already done nothing for 2 years, but had delayed the establishment of a centre, which was intended to live in the authorities of the state administration. The amendments and additions to the social care law of 2016 were postponed until the end of May 2017 and then until the end of this year, the Explanation of amendments and additions at that time concerned that the delay was necessary because of the need to ensure all organisational and administrative conditions, for the transfer of jurisdiction, administration, guaranteed minimum fees from the welfare centre to the authorities of the administration. And the explanation of the current changes and additions concerns redefining the design proposal, the single centre of compensation, to develop a new model to ensure maximum use of existing capacity, and to ensure the strengthening of professional social work in order to provide support to the family. Now, here's the problem. Families, here we think that families or individuals who find themselves in a life of difficulty are not necessarily individuals or families in whom family relationships are affected because of the loss of work and inability, such as the return of credit, the execution. That is why it is not good for these families to be classified and immediately put under increased social care centres, which further imposes on them, especially children in these families, further imposes the family's Stigma in the problem. Poverty does not involve automatic and bad family relations, it is the country's duty to respond to monetary assistance, not by violent investment in family relations. Although long - term poverty may result in a family relationship, other institutions, where family members are located, should react. And who noticed the problem. It seems to us that this government is giving up the single centre of compensation, because reform, the previous SDP government, is about this reform. I'm asking why he's giving up now, and why you didn't give up already at the beginning of the term of office, what's the delay? We don't think poverty should know ideological signs after all. The government is giving up the single centre of compensation, and they want instead a virtual centre, meaning that it will upgrade the computer system through which social care centres will have insight into the data related to the recognition of guaranteed minimum fees. We are concerned about this, Minister Murganic, I don't know, not a motherly relationship with social workers, because how else do you interpret it, that you are giving up on the reforms you started, which social workers would free up the bargaining of solutions and turn professionals into administrative workers. How else do you interpret, this one, this one, your relationship with social workers, when you impose on them the jobs for which they are re-educated and why they are not able to perform the professional work of helping users. The fact is that money-aid jobs represent a big job, spends time and energy from professionals, and should be directed towards the professional work of helping users. The fact is that writing solutions, which are jobs, do not require the level of education of social workers. And the fact is that, approval, of this kind of material aid, actually shouldn't be the job of the welfare center. The fact is that there is a lasting lack of professional workers, at centres, on real jobs, because they are really exhausting in the printing of a solution. That's why I'm asking you, will you ask yourself, where the social workers were, when something bad happens in some family? Will you say, they're writing solutions. And finally, we, therefore, will support this, however, proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, because it goes in favour of users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63870	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63871	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, to you for information, about when you were talking about the right people with disabilities. So it's personal disability and everything that's supposed to happen to her. Last week, there was a meeting on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and the Government Committee for Persons with Disabilities at which all representatives of the Association and the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities agreed with this proposal because they know that some things could not be included in this law now. And that we will think about all this well, well how and in what way in the new law we will regulate the rights relating to persons with disabilities, given that at this moment there is also a working group for the creation of an inclusive supplement law. So that's one big, big deal. And as for the single compensation centre, you know for a fact that he didn't function and that three times extended the deadline for his start-up, and that didn't happen. There are professional people in the Social Services Centers. Social workers don't have to write solutions, there are lawyers for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63872	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. Answer, colleague Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63873	Thank you, Vice President. So, colleagues, it's true that what you're saying is that the associations have also agreed. What I wanted to emphasize, what should be stressed is that recognition, therefore in one part of the right of some persons, therefore some groups of persons should not be practiced, nor should they find their place in this way in the law. Because at the same time, you don't recognize the same right to someone else. That's the key. So there was meaning and all the objections and everyone, so that's what I was talking about. And as for therefore the single centre of compensation he is indeed, he would have to leave, should leave the Social Care Centre. Because the fact is that centres cry out for professional workers, and professional workers, social workers are the ones who write solutions. Well, the lawyer doesn't have enough to actually cover all that, all these needs that are being set before them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63874	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Alfirev. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, we've heard a lot today about these amendments and the additions to the law. You, Madam Minister, have very, very detailedly explained, and have actually said what was the initial and basic objective of amending and supplementing the Social Hide Act. Therefore, as the main objective of these amendments and the addition is to coordinate with the National Reform Programme for 2017 and redefine the centre, a single compensation centre. Like I said before, that center never worked. On several occasions, the law extended the time limit in which the centre was to begin. It didn't happen and it actually proved to be the best solution to pay all the benefits and still remains in the social care center system. Furthermore, what is extremely important and I must say on this occasion that I was personally particularly pleased when the media in the news this morning announced what the Croatian Parliament will discuss today, when they said it would be the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. They later noted that it is changing because it promotes the right people with disabilities. This is what is extremely, extremely important, of course, with all these other changes in these amendments and additions. I'm going to take a quick look at these two fees, and that's a personal disability and an extra for help and care. As for wages that will no longer be included in income, why does he pay? Well, he pays precisely for most people with disabilities to say that we push into the world of work. You must know that there are very, very many people with disabilities who have graduated from colleges. They don't just want to get involved in the world of work, they don't have the courage to do it because they've lost the right to a personal disability so far. And when a move like this was discussed to do so, I have to say that at the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, they said that this was an excellent step that you did in the ministry because in some way it would make it easier for people with disabilities in some way like I said to push into the world of work. Why do I say push? Because, anyway, employers have a chance to see they're not happy to hire people with disabilities. People with disabilities in such thinking about themselves simply don't want to deal with it anymore, they're safer staying with their personal disability because they know she'll arrive every month. However, now that it will not be abolished, when it will be able to keep a personal disability on its salary and on its way forward, we are confident and in the movement of people with disabilities that many will want to enter the world of work and actually earn their living by their work. As for the increase in this fee and the compensation of the aid and care allowance, it is something that I can actually only thank you, Madam Minister and Mr Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, for having understood, that here is how much it was possible for us to increase these fees from April 1st. So for more than 15 years, people with disabilities couldn't possibly get to fight, get personal disability and extras for help and care. Furthermore, as already stated here, the service you introduce in the Social Care Act of these amendments and additions, which is a new service of family mediation, is certainly commendable. It will certainly benefit all citizens in the Republic of Croatia who have a need for such a service at all. As for the protection of users and the disabling of the manipulation of their properties, this ban on the conclusion of an estrangement and burden on real estate is certainly something that everyone says, and I have to say to whoever I talked to these days, when we talked about the law, everyone said that something like this finally happened. Is there any idea now that some institutions should be free of it, I don't know, maybe when the new law is passed, there will be opportunities to think about it more in the same way. However, in any case, I dare say that you have saved many, many people with whom it has been manipulated in a very, very ugly way so far. As for this part where changes are made, there will be no further rules that would really be unnecessary, and when it comes to the right person with disabilities, I think it's very good. Because the regulation on art methodologies actually gave us the real foundation on which we're going to change all definitions, so in all regulations, it obliges us. I believe it won't take us a very, very long time to change everything, even though it's a very, very big job. In any case, all of these changes, as you yourself said in your presentation by Madam Minister, which you added to these amendments and additions will certainly improve the quality of all our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. And I am sure that people with disabilities will be given one wind in their backs and will dare to go into the world of work and earn money for their lives by their work. This is what will restore their trust in institutions, and I dare say it myself. In any case, all representatives of the Associations and the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities must say so here support these amendments and additions. There have been proposals and defenders for persons with disabilities and representatives of associations and associations who are praiseworthy, and I am sure that in the making of a new law on them we will think carefully because there are institutes in this law that really need to be said in some way I will refresh, if not change. As far as personal disability is concerned, I believe that when we pass a new law, we will find ways and opportunities to free the disabled from all possible censorship because it is a personal fee to the person with disabilities, the person with the disability who is exercising the right to do so. And we don't think that's social compensation. Here is the Croatian Democratic Community club that will support the amendments and additions to the Social Care Act, and I believe that these changes and additions will indeed have an important impact on the quality of life of all our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63876	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic, for this debate. We move to the next debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Boris Milosevic. He's not present. A respected colleague, Miro Bulj, appeared for an individual debate. He's not present. Thank you very much. Dear Minister Nada Murganic, here's your closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63877	Thank you very much. Now that we're on our way to a peaceful debate, we've touched a very significant and very high-quality provision of this law. I'm glad that, I almost believe here from the debate all clubs will support the law because they recognize the good that is directed towards our citizens, i.e. specifically individual user groups, and that is really positive. I would like to emphasise that these discussions have repeatedly highlighted this one imbalance in the raising and recognition of certain rights to one of our citizens, and that these same rights will be disabled to others and that this leads to an unequal position, i.e. to some forms of discrimination. And with that, I'm not really happy either. But why? Because the provisions in which, for example, censorships would be removed from persons, the users of personal disability would, regardless of the receipts and incomes, whether it was a pension or a salary or a general income of a family, or a household would actually lead to one financial impact that we are not sure that we can now follow in this situation. How we will never pass a law in which we will achieve a level of rights, but also enable the quality of life to all our users who are subject to the social care system, and most of the law has made it clear that we will never be able to do so because I am not sure, here seriously, I am saying that we will have such a budget and such a level of awareness. It's funny not to at least do what we can and I think this law is a good start. The amendment and the supplement that we had in the third month was also aimed at encouraging the inclusion in the world of our users' work guaranteed minimum fees, because they also sometimes calculated whether they would lose the fee because let's tell them that social assistance would enter income and lose social assistance because they would, for example, be temporarily employed in public works or at a similar job. Since it is a young and workable user we wanted to stimulate them to accept the job and that during that time of employment we would take them and remove social assistance by the more we agree we would not be too big, but it is some basis for removing the basic risk of poverty. What I'd like to say is, there's been a lot of public talk that this law could include and I think it's also on behalf of the Most in... independent lists and Mrs. Strenja Linic touched and elaborated that mothers who have parent status, nurse after the death of a child still receive the six-month fee that would give them one financial security during the mourning period because of the far-fetched process of passing this amendment of the law we couldn't classify it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A single amendment would not be enough because that status extends through several articles, and I think that the percentage that is important would be that one law would be an amendment and a supplement, not a whole law would violate it. However, what we did together with the social work centres said that we would pay the financial fee of 6 months in the event of the child's death and that the existing law allows through increased one-time cash compensation. We have a background for it, it's just a matter of watching. The agreement is to go in this direction and bridge it until this whole comprehensive social welfare law is passed. These are I'm not hiding the reasons for the two changes because we're really giving up the single cash compensation center. The reason is organisational. I didn't make that decision, we didn't make it suddenly. This is why we did not do it at the beginning of the term of office as it was said, but we did see that it was primarily impossible to do it. The state administration office is about to run one of these very demanding jobs, it's on the one hand. On the other hand, my firm position and attitude of our profession and professional and professor from the Faculty of Social Work that guaranteed minimum compensation cannot be administratively approached. And I'm sorry that colleague Maria left because we unfortunately had very difficult situations where we missed difficult family crisis situations, children at risk, risky parents. I won't repeat it now, we all know that from the media where it's been said, so we've only given them financial assistance, so where great poverty and bad economic relations lead to other family problems and legitimate inability to have real parental care, and that's what a social worker has to have under control, it can't do medium professional preparation, administrative orientation, we've been trained to do that. Writing a solution is a sprawl, a social worker has to make a complete process anyway, and that's not a problem then put in one sprawl, whether or not we're going to organisationally fill in those who write solutions, that's what we should take care of. In the future, I fully agree that there aren't enough personnel in the welfare centers, it's a chronic problem. In this year we have given consent to the employment of new staff of lawyers and social workers most of all in welfare centres, and this is indeed a commitment because they have a burden on them and bearers of activities. The law that was passed in 2013 is restrictive, the personnel have been abandoning themselves for years and I must also say because I have been warned about my non-motherly relationship with social workers, I think that the motherly relationship should be when we require professionalism and work, and that is fine, I have no doubt at all, but I also have to say that these days I have started all activities because our social workers and employees in the social care system have been underpaid to other public institutions that their coefficient for the same jobs, the same complexity and equipment is lower, and that is one of the reasons why others may not have been in the same motherly mood before, and we will try to make it all expensive for the benefit of the users because we are in the service to really mitigate or correct them, but what is not years, it is difficult to arrive. There are good proposals and measures, they will be considered in the making of this comprehensive law. What I must say, when we are fighting for rights, for the good economic status and position of our users, whether they are persons with disabilities or others, we must keep an eye on the homeless here, on the principle of social justice, which says that a person exercising the rights of the system of care cannot achieve a more favourable material position towards the person who makes the means of life work or on the basis of the rights arising from work. Social benefits are low and they really cannot be lived, but we have to take care of it for some time, because in this sense the state has a lot of objections, and this introduction of a single compensation centre is aimed at targeting or reducing the duplication or abuse of social benefits. Why am I pointing that out? Because it was mentioned here that the homeless who have accommodation should also have a minimum fee guaranteed, which would mean that where the state pays accommodations in the institution, these users should also have guaranteed minimum fees and then speak again to the budget burden but also to this principle as well as to Mrs. Maria Alfirev, pointed out for those who have a disability, that they should be free of charge or that they should be paid from budget means of accommodation and that they remain paid, I think they are one of the standards that would really lead to a major imbalance in the system and I repeat the injustices towards those who all these needs have to satisfy their own work and have to support their families. So I am for the corrections, and we will try to improve the standard of our users who exercise the rights of the social care system, but for now these are the opportunities. I also expect cooperation and good proposals and quality proposals in the process of drafting the law as well as the unity that we have shown today in the adoption and adoption of these provisions, that is, this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63878	I would like to thank the honourable minister, Mrs Nadi Murganic, for this final statement. And this concludes the debate. And once again, I would like to thank the minister and her associates for their reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are done with all the points planned for today. We continue the session on 12 December at 9.30 p.m. with agenda Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction Products, second reading, P.Z. No. 198. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day and weekend. Thank you. The session was interrupted in 15.10 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63879	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 240. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 199. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 122 votes, we have decided to conduct a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the applicant's representative to explain the amendments submitted. With us is a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Marija Plerikosa. Here you go. So we have two amendments to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63880	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Amendment 1 has been accepted. Amendment 2. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63881	No, we're not talking about government amendments. So we've opened the debate, please explain them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63882	The government's amendment is accepted. In Article 5(2), paragraph 2 is amended as follows: ‘not included’ is the word ‘pays the copyright fee’ and the decimal is added. The proposed addition of the Social Care Act provides that income not included in the determination and fulfilment of the conditions for the recognition of the right to a personal disability is to be collected and paid by the person whose right to a personal disability is to be decided.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63883	Please, a little louder, just please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63884	In view of the implementation of that proposal, the intensity of the applicant is to ensure the personal disability and the person with disabilities involved in the labour market, given that the person with disabilities can be included in the labour market and the copyright fee of that proposal has been complemented in a way that among incomes not included in the determination of the conditions for recognition of the right to personal disability and the copyright fee of the person whose right to a personal disability is decided.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63885	Okay, please explain Amendment No. 2 and then we'll open the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63886	Amendment No. 2. Exceptionally, Article 22(2) is amended as follows: “Extremely in the procedures initiated for the recognition of the right to personal disability and the right to compensation for aid and not completed by 31 March 2018, the amount of personal disability and compensation for assistance and care from 1 April 2018 will be determined in accordance with the provisions of this Act. This is what we propose in order to simplify the expression of the provision and to cover the procedures which have earlier started in the cases of the recognition of the right to personal disability and the right to compensation for assistance and care and to be completed after 1 April 2018 when the provisions of this law on a more favourable amount of disability and allowance for assistance and care enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63887	Thank you. I am now opening a debate on the amendments to the Government, in accordance with Article 199(2), only representatives of the club representatives can participate in the debate. Any of the representatives' clubs report? If I don't close the argument. And I am voting on the 1st amendment of the government. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 121 votes, we have adopted the 1st amendment of the government and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am now voting on the second amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I find that, unanimously with 122 votes, we have also accepted the 2nd amendment of the Government and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are now moving to a vote on amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Ines Strenja-Linić, the Club of Representatives of the Party of Labour and Solidarity, the Reformist and Independent Representatives. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means. I'm asking the Secretary of State once again, dear Mary Pleikos, to be shown about the amendments. The first one is the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63888	Sustained, amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63889	He becomes an integral part of the law. The second amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63890	The amendment is not accepted. The right to a personal disability shall be recognised to a user who fulfils the conditions for the purpose of meeting its life needs for inclusion in the everyday life of the community. Through a recognised accommodation service or organised housing, such a user is assured to meet her life needs to be included in the daily life of the community.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63891	Appreciation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST respected Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63892	Dear Secretary of State, I do not agree with your explanation, so that the right to a personal disability cannot be recognised by a child or an adult who has been granted a service of accommodation and organised housing in accordance with the provisions of this law because of what the personal disability is personally the status of a person acquired on the basis of disability rather than the foundation of social status. Therefore, the personal disability is an inviolable and inalienable right of a disabled person and is one of the conditions for the right to equalise the possibility of persons with disabilities. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63893	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government has not accepted. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so we go to amendment number three of Ines Strenja-Linic's respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63894	The amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63895	It's accepted, it becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63896	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry shall, through continuous monitoring and analysis of the effects of certain provisions of the Social Care Act, be aware of the need for a full improvement of the same, and shall initiate the procedure for drawing up new regulations, which will consider the proposal in accordance with the jurisdiction and available financial resources of the state budget, which are not in these amendments and the additions in the capacity to adopt because of the scope and financial impact which demonstrate the full redefining of certain rights. The proposal in question will also be discussed when drawing up other regulations under the responsibility of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy governing the rights of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63897	Apparition of colleagues of Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63898	Thank you. I would just refer to it that I am glad that you accepted my amendment earlier that I asked that apart from the salary exemption and the copyright fee so that persons with personal disability other than wages and some of them achieve copyright fees could continue because the personal disability is the personal right of every person with disabilities and thank you for accepting that amendment. As regards what I asked, then, for pensions to be deleted from the words “peace” up to the minimum or minimum pension achieved after 40 years of retirement. So, we've solved the salary but the original proposal will lead, this proposal will lead to new discrimination within the very population of people with disabilities. I am aware that there is not enough money, but it would also be unfair for a full personal disability to be admitted to a person who works, but not for a person who retires or receives a pension after the death of his parents just because he exceeds the minimum pension. Personal disability should be linked exclusively to disability and absurdly attached to any restrictions. So we've accepted the salary, but we also need to settle it with pensions. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63899	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed, so let's go to Amendment 5. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63900	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63901	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 6. A club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformers and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63902	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal is rejected since in order to protect users and prevent manipulation of their assets due to their impaired health or other difficult living situation, it was necessary to prohibit the legal or physical person carrying out the social care activity and the natural person employed in the social care activity, his or her spouse, formal or informal life partner or relative in a straight or lateral line to a second stage with the user provided by the service to contract the alienation or load of the property of the users. The Ministry shall, through continuous monitoring and analysis of the effects of certain provisions of the Social Care Act, be aware of the need for a full improvement of the same, and shall initiate a procedure for drawing up new regulations, which will consider the proposal in accordance with the jurisdiction and available financial means, and which we are not able to accept these amendments and additions due to their scope which require full redefining of certain rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63903	Comrade Vard, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63904	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary. We have proposed actually an amendment exclusively that units of local self-government, regionally, regionally can conclude contracts. It is about life or life support contracts, and in this way they can provide resources to solve social cases on their own ground. It's about local self-government bodies, it's about the supervision that these bodies are doing, and it's about the State Audit in the end line, and it's about your inspection service. It's the only exception we're proposing. We have transferred a number of jobs and obligations to local self-government units, and in this way we prevent them from creating resources on their own ground and solving social cases. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63905	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 7. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63906	Amendment number six?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63907	Number 7, Amendment 7. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63908	Accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63909	It becomes an integral part of the law and amendment number 8 of the Legislative Committee as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63910	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-08-0.u63911	Thank you and he becomes an integral part of the law. I thank the secretary of state. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, with 125 votes in favour, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act has been passed. Honorable MPs, respected parliamentary representatives, good morning. We're going back to work. The first item is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction Products, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 198. But before that I see that he has a hand in the air. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
