ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55902	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, I request a recess on the continuation of the privatisation of HEP HEP, yeah. [[/The incursion of the president: HEP?]] And on behalf of the club, he would have expressed dissatisfaction with including the points in the debate and regarding the water economy because we believe that the topic is particularly important on the other hand that the preparation for this topic must be more appropriate than that this morning, it is now half 10, I find out that we will discuss it this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55903	Please. Comrade Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55904	I'm looking for a break on the matter of public administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55905	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55906	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I am looking for a break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55907	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55908	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on the topic of internal, political and economic relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55909	Thank you. Do we have anyone else? We don't. It's till 9.55, then. It's 9:00.45. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, discussions after the break, is the first in line, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Bridge. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:55 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55911	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have seen that in the agenda, we will have in the debate a law defining strategic planning in the Republic of Croatia. One of the acts on the basis of which the government's strategic planning and programme is being implemented, which by carefully reading the government's programme, I did not see in it the privatisation of HEP as one of the programme's specifics that this government has. Well, then I'm right to ask, why do we have laws that are right in that direction? Let us then reach one agreement, let the ruling majority make it clear that they want to privatise HEP, that they want to implement it again in this mandate, put it in the government programme, and that we do not have to have laws, such as this Water Act, in which a key obstacle is being addressed at a small door. What Mrs. Kosor's Government was against, and that was precisely to privatise HEP, to ensure that companies that make the most quality revenues in the country, which is one of the key energy companies that can guarantee exactly the quality of supply and price in the future, because we have one of the lowest electricity prices, precisely because we have hydrothermias that are amortised, which are modernised, that always create quality electricity and at the lowest prices. By amending this law that is here today, is... included in the agenda, we'll probably have it in the late evening, which is actually all of us here are involved in a venture, which the government doesn't want to admit on our own, which is the privatisation of HEP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the achievement of the right to build at 99 years in favour of HEP is the last obstacle that was just to be implemented, because the value of HEP without key energy facilities, and these are existing hydropower plants is small. She's not interesting to anyone. As we find interesting, if we look from our point of view, to get into strategic and surrounding areas, such as the BIH and their energy system, where there are also high-quality hydropower plants, but so I see that there are also thoughts about missing it, some new strategic partner, and then in a few years we will have the INA case again. And that's why this Water Act, it's not the Water Act anymore, it's... So someone's gonna be happy because HEP was sent by this law to privatise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But to not only care about that, that's one problem for me, another problem, which is what's right, it allows new investors to go into such facilities, and then once again, this dam on Peruqi that gets an energy meal that's going to be owned by someone, it can be private, which we're going to do again for 99 years, and then I'm going to ask you just where we're going as a country, how we're strategically thinking. Or are we just thinking interesting? I would say that first it must be strategically determined to be in the government's programme, that the government clearly stands behind it, that there should be no more tampering, I don't think the government considers both HDZ and HNS. With HNS, it is clear, they would have been able to change that law, even in the last term, probably prevented them from doing so. And lucky for us that by now, they're lucky, we all have other accidents that there's no one to stop them, then they find two interested parties that will do it, I'm just asking at what point someone, maybe again Christmas MEP, will come out and say, we people won't buy INA but we'll privatize HEP and that 25% won't jeopardize our governance. You think someone's happy and interested in entering a company that will never have the right to vote in the management, because it's just the beginning of a non-refundable process. In which number of years sooner or later, we're going to discuss here the adverse consequences of this part again. Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling parties, make a decision of the government that this is a government programme, make an energy strategy, stand behind it. And don't you ever have to take part in any of the discussions you're trying to cover up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55912	Second debate, a respected colleague, Zeljko Glasnović, on behalf of the Advocacy Club for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55913	Dear colleagues, Croatia was 30 years old to build an independent institution, the primary judiciary, to arrange public administration, and what reality is on the ground, which we are looking at. We have a theory where the right people should come to the right places, where there should be professionality and integrity in the first place, what do we have? We have only a political, but an ideological resemblance. This can also be proven as the parties argue like packes, people suffer from administration, bureaucracy and an outdated system. From Zagreb to Split, the same thing, people call me every day and what I hear. People get A's, they come test, they test, they move, they come up there like that, and it's an old practice. 50% of the head works at the state administration. It's unimaginable, it's a burden, a huge burden, I'm here by making new values, and it's just costing the state, a lot of money, and nothing's done. It's just an extension of communism and where we are today. Here, the Germans removed theirs, I know because I was working on this project, it's this interrogation, which the German army did after the fall of the Berlin Wall, you took off all the older heads of 35 years, why, because I can't change my mental circuit. We're still prisoners of that metal band, where it is, remember that one, no one can pay as little of me as little as I can do. This is what you can see today, when you enter the offices from Zagreb to Split, you see the infatuated characters there. The third generation is already there. Some die there after a typewriter. Here's what, it was recently this one, yesterday was the Agriculture Committee. What did it do? What's this doing to our State Geodetic Service? So we solved 5% of the land. In Canada, they took a private company, solved 5.5 million particles. As a parrot, I repeat it here and no one can prescribe it to you on your six. What? It's a legal document, and there's still legal chaos at all levels. Hundreds of thousands of unsolved objects, old characters, etc. We didn't get rid of that. For the Yugoslavs out there, I'll read you the documents, those Croatian Yugoslavs who still exist, to see how it worked and what's happening today, and this is a reflection of our current situation is this former one. This is a document from Colonel Steven Kadejevic asking to transfer a man who finished his driver's exam to medical school down at the hospital in Krstarica, down in Split. That's what another Radovan Karadzic writes. I apologize to these viewers who are watching, but this is the original document written in Serbian. Here's what it says. He says the problem is that a friend doesn't have a proper high school. He graduated from a driving traffic school in SR Croatia, so he must take a qualified biology exam, etc. He can't pass it because there's no sign of the object mentioned. It's about medicine. If that head were to operate on you, what would they do? They'd die of a heart attack if they saw him. Here we go. It'll put him in the Crossdown, that's where I apologize to the viewers, and here it says directly here. Fuck him and don't make me and Veljak, it's Veljko Kadjevic, we're coming to Banja Luka because of all this petty shit. It's clear to us that a boy has no sense of science, but that makes sense to what's most important to us. And here we are today what is the most important political resemblance, the gap between politics and public administration. And that's why we have a croslavia and a dysfunctional state today. It's an original document. And now let these Yugoslavs whine with their teeth watching this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55914	Thanks, buddy. I'd just like to beg you no matter what you've apologized for, not swearing in the Parliament. Whatever. [[Attacka Glasnović: It is the original document.]] There are a lot of original documents that are very, very simple, so it wouldn't be good to read them here. Next is the HDZ Representatives' Club and Honored counterpart Darko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55915	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, given the request for a break, just to determine the material and return briefly to the history of what is once and what is today Croatia's electricity industry. Not so long ago in 2002, you will remember almost all of us who are in the assembly today, the Croatian government is passing two very important laws. One was called the INA Privatisation Act, and the other was called the HEP Privatisation Act. Unfortunately for us, under the 2002 law, INA was privatized with one mode 7+7+7 etc. etc. Then by public offering of shares. However, after a perceived mistake, but the inability to take a step back in 2010 the government then and here I went to check my colleague Schuker was then Deputy Prime Minister, and the Croatian Parliament made a decision not to deal with the Law on Privatisation of HEP because it was established then and today that Croatia's electricity cannot be privatised without a special law, without talks and dialogue here in Parliament and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here I am sure, and I will repeat that x times if there are any discussions on the opening of a public offer of HEP shares, no matter what the amount of this decision and the event will certainly not happen without a special law, without the preparation of such a law, the adoption of one here in Parliament and a broad public debate that will precede it. And I agree here with two sentences today said that Croatia has its own domestic electricity production. There is still one quality mix and the price of domestic production is below what we can find today on the stock exchanges of our environment and we treat it as an import. But it's not just the hydroelectric power plant's Croatian potential. Let us not forget that two blocks of the Plomin thermal power plant, that the Croatian half of the property in Krško nuclear power plant far away, contributes far to the fact that the Croatian mix has a competitive price and that it pays much better in agreement with the amortised production facilities to produce electricity in the area of Croatia than to get it on stock exchanges and buy it, or import it. Now, continuing to point out the story that Croatia does not have a strategic document is either ignorance or intent. In 2009, Croatia adopted the Energy Strategy and respected gentlemen, all of us who dare to debate on the document should read it first. Implicate that the new strategy will make a radical turn in obtaining competitive production sources, and potentiate the story that it will be renewable sources is a great ignorance, but also a great courage to talk about it without any scientific background. And I'm sure that people who will be involved in the creation of a new strategic document, because for five years now, I've pointed out the story that today's strategic planning at the level of ten years is one thing, and the development of technology within ten years is one completely different thing. And not having the desire and the ability to revise the strategic document after every third year is a shot into the blank. The new strategy that will be adopted believe me will have no concrete new projects, which are not written in the existing strategy. We do not have in the spatial plans of new localities, nor in the Spatial Development Strategy we do not have new production sites, and in this new strategy we will have to make one filter but use only and exclusively today existing production or potential sites. So please don't open the topic and wounds where you don't need to. until the waist first gives its opinion. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Horvat.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55916	And the last debate of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55917	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Let's say a few sentences on this subject first. We all remember the INA, we all remember how the story was running and how the story ended with 10 million euros in bribes to the HDZ prime minister, and that's why we, in opposition to the SDP, smoke in cold, whenever mentioned in a sentence of possible privatisation in this case of HEP and oppose this kind of privatisation of HEP. We believe that the announcements the HDZ gives and that the money will be collected for the purchase of the INA, which, unfortunately, is now gone again, by selling HEP, we are against it. But I answered about something else here. We talk a lot about how inefficiently managed by budget public taxpayers and I want to point out an objectively large problem here. The city of Zagreb, the largest unit of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia with the largest potential of 7.5 billion kuna, has decided that this is not enough money and that it cannot be covered with this money as he says, the full is too short and decided that the citizens of Zagreb or the city of Zagreb and Zagreb Holding will raise nearly 500 million kunas of credit to a business bank so that he can continue his business uninterruptedly and spend the money of the citizens of Zagreb in the way he thinks it is necessary. In parallel, it calls on the state to deny it 400m kuna and calls the HDZ government that it has denied the city of Zagreb 400m kuna for next year and that the budget must be lower. I call on him from here, if that is true, to deny the support of the HDZ government, not to paint the citizens of the city of Zagreb, to speak one thing in the City Assembly and another in the Croatian Parliament. If Milan Bandic told Andrej Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, we do not want to take the 400 million kuna from Zagreb, so that citizens of the city of Zagreb must be in debt, then the representatives of Varda, Ermina Prlaskaj and others who voted against the majority and Mr Plenkovic would not have the majority, or would have to give up that 400 million kuna would take the city of Zagreb. So here is one in the work of a non-discipline coalition where Milan Bandic doesn't matter at all the status of the city of Zagreb in the Republic of Croatia, he will do for HDZ anything, we've seen countless times, he will do for Hasanbegović anything, we've also seen countless times. And last we saw the other day when he wanted to remove the bisa of Ivo Lola Ribara, which he set up two months ago because Hasanbegovic got up on his left leg. So Milan Bandic is obviously a politically-rated mayor and cannot manage the city of Zagreb or manage it via Milan Bandic Hasanbegovic and HDZ. What do I say HDZ for? Because of what the HDZ took from Zagreb 400 million kunas, which are now citizens of the city of Zagreb must be covered by the responsibility of a business bank. And here we need to talk about these problems, there is little talk here about the city of Zagreb about its duties, about the inefficient management of city property and about the budget spent in my opinion and in our opinion. 7.5 billion kuna is enough to effectively manage the city of Zagreb. And here I am asking another question to Mr Bandic and the representatives of Bandic's party here at the Croatian Parliament. If the Government can deny 400 million kuna, then the citizens of Zagreb could not pay a smaller cut because the annual tax is almost as much. It means that the HDZ in Zagreb has not been taken away from us 400 million kunas would be zero to the Zagreb people. We would pay a zero cut if HDZ did not take the Bandic, or the city of Zagreb, by its tax changes, for the budget of 400 million kuna. So the message of Milan Bandić is, pay Plenkovic's citizens, take what you need from Zagreb. Now, that's not okay, and we shouldn't let that happen, but unfortunately there is no political force especially among these representatives of Bandic in the Croatian Parliament to oppose it. They are only here to collect three more years' wages and then leave the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55918	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55919	Here you go, colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55920	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'd like to ask you to take a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. He would say something about the extremely bad treatment of Croatia's very valuable good, which is water, Croatian waters in this House, and I would ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55921	Comrade Dobrović, I have two points on the waters right now. We can, of course, and you have answered, you will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Unfortunately for you, my turn of the Rules of Procedure, I must grant you a recess. This best shows how passionate the Rules of Procedure is and how much we have to change it. You actually want a break connected to a point that's just coming up on the agenda and where you can talk about that point. I have to admit, I don't see the point of it, but if you insist, I'll just give a break, it's the best proof of how much this Rules of Procedure we have to change. Of course I'll have to give you a break next time, even though it's pointless. Here you go, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55922	I'm looking for the same break regarding your announcements about amending the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55923	Okay. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55924	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I absolutely agree with you that this break is unnecessary because right now the debate on agenda points for which Mr. MP on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Requested a break, but given that you granted him a break and that the topic is clearly sought by the SDP representative Club, and I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, also seek a break on the subject of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55925	Thank you. Anyone else? Another club? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 12.20. [[It's 12.10 o'clock.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12,20 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, the break is up and I will now give the word first on behalf of the club MOST independent list to the respected representative Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55927	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Why did I ask for this assembly break? So this demand is estimated to be illogical so almost absurd. I think it's quite justified. In fact, we should all agree that water is an incredibly important resource especially for Croatia. So Croatia is rich in water resources and here in this House lies also a very large responsibility to preserve this resource. So if we have a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act that was still in the government's procedure last week, which was included in the agenda this morning, which was announced quickly tomorrow for discussion and now suddenly arrives a day earlier or just a few hours before the entry into the agenda at all. So now I'm asking all of you here and I'm asking the Croatian public, isn't that unserious? Why such an approach? Could we all turn to the Croatian public together, all the generations that come and say that, that it was such a procedure at the time, we quickly did it, it was very important for us. It was very important to address outstanding issues of property, the property situation of HEP at numerous hydroenergy facilities, on numerous channels, many dams, and therefore energy facilities, and this is also envisaged by this law. Well, that's why, if it's about objects that are of such importance, which are so much age, should all be summed up together, the whole parliamentary procedure in a few hours, or should we allow time, should we see what these solutions are supposed to look like, special solutions concerning the rights of construction, the rights of service, the deadlines of 99 years are mentioned, the possibility of entering and the private initiative in the entire segment, and all together we must unannounced, early debate this afternoon. Should we be surprised, then, with warnings coming from different sides, that it may actually be a privatization of the water resistor, so one small door. Well, this procedure says that maybe that's the way it is. Although I believe that the promoter may not have that in mind, that he really wants to, to set up, to fix the system. However, this procedure, this fact, that we now need to discuss this debate, just 2 hours, 3 after it has come to the agenda, may actually raise such questions and such doubts. I think that because of the importance of this good that the Constitution is protected, perhaps not enough, so we should all try to protect it better. That because of the importance of this good debate, we should still postpone this debate. So tomorrow is too soon because of the scale and really important topic for Croatia. Maybe next week it can come on the agenda. And this is how I really wonder, can we, like the Parliament, this High House, look at the pure cheek and answer to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55928	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55929	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. I had to take this opportunity, because the topic has been current for the past few days, and now it has shown itself in full light, when the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Academyman Reiner, warned by me and by us inappropriately representative when asking for a break and said he regretted giving him the opportunity to speak in the Croatian Parliament. And that is something that HDZ has been trying to do for weeks in the Croatian Parliament. We saw how it ended with a rude scene, when President Jandrokovic made it impossible for HSS President Krešo Beljak to speak and what led us to do and how unfortunately we had to get out of this situation together. And then instead of allowing the debate in the Croatian Parliament, HDZ and President Jandrokovic, he tried to justify the whole situation here to justify the needs of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, because it is impossible to work in the Croatian Parliament, there is a lot of things to do, things to say, etc. What I would warn Croatian citizens that the Croatian Parliament, whatever it may be, whoever is in it, has been elected by Croatian citizens and has the right to speak for those who chose him. It may not like HDZ and Miro Bulj and Bunjac and Lovrinović and Dobrović and Maras at the end, but it must not be HDZ, which unfortunately I have a sense of trying, not only through changes to the Rules of Procedure, but through the creation of an impression, because we see that the President of the Parliament was essentially after that day talking about the circus in the assembly, as if there was something that he was not responsible for, which only the opposition representatives were responsible for. And there is an impression in the public that the Croatian Parliament should put into some rules, that definitely, MPs should no longer say what they think they should and what they were elected by Croatian citizens. This is the intention of the HDZ, and I am here in advance warning the Croatian public and HDZ on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club that we will not agree to any amendments to the Rules of Procedure that would restrict representatives in their work and speech. HDZ is trying not only through the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, I have a feeling, because we haven't seen it at the end of the final proposal, but through the creation of a single atmosphere in the public, as something inadmissible is happening here, we have to put an end to it, so why do you want to end a colleague and colleagues from HDZ? Will you put an end to the SDP counsel not speaking at all? That Miro Bulj doesn't speak at all. That colleagues from the Living Wall, IDS, HSS don't speak at all? Don't watch that movie. We will fight for our rights, for which representatives in the Croatian Parliament chose us. And our message and suggestion is don't limit that right to you, because such a conflict will escalate again and you will again be responsible for it, as Parliament President Jandorkovic was responsible a few days ago when what happened with Kresa Beljak. We don't need such chaos in the assembly, but don't stop the MPs in their basic constitutional right, which is to represent the citizens who chose them and they will choose them or not next time. You don't have to worry about what an impression Bunjac, Bulj or Maras will make. That's what our voters will worry about, that's what those who represent these citizens should worry about. We have seen many examples from around the world, such situations in the Croatian Parliament have never been, so from the European Parliament, when we talk about what rules are in Europe, much more embarrassing situations than they were in the Croatian Parliament, but it was never a thought to limit the debate, or to introduce a threat to sanctions. Are you gonna say something or not? So we could have a situation in the Croatian Parliament that someone would be able to pay 10,000 kn on President Jandrokovic's proposal if he said something he didn't like. So if you vote that, most of the time, believe me, it won't slow us down or discourage us again in the debates. We are here to represent our voters and so we will continue until the next elections, when we will ask these voters for support to continue to represent them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55930	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I have come to the floor to show just how unnecessary this party is, how much she, the debate that was now to begin on Croatian waters, seems unnecessary because precisely the topic opened by fellow Dobrović, here he is now gone, I don't know where he is, will now be through 2 laws that we will be able to discuss with her from the position of MOST or anything MOST about that topic, he should have said through that point. This is how we stall the work of the Croatian Parliament, stop for half an hour. The debate no longer makes any sense after several times the debate on a point itself has been cut out. I would have visited him if this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water and Water Economy Act had come to the Croatian Parliament 4 days ago, if we could have discussed it at the level of clubs that we at the HDZ Club and did, they could have done the same colleagues from the Most, so there was a time. But I would remind you precisely that this government is in the parliamentary procedure almost all the laws it sends in the regular procedure. We witnessed fellow Maras when you and your government discussed 90% of the law here in the Croatian Assembly in an emergency procedure. Now it is exactly the opposite, now almost all the laws, are rare laws that are being discussed in the Croatian Assembly in the emergency procedure, as a rule all laws are in the debate in the ordinary procedure. As regards the possibility of discussing certain topics here in the Assembly such a procedure of law making it possible for all MPs whether they are ruling or from an opposition position to discuss how much they want, however, on two occasions they are allowed to talk about it. No one has any intention of silenceing the MPs or... However, we are witnessing that through numerous breaks, hanging replicas within our own club practically and debates no longer make sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] See how much there is at the level of the Parliament's individual debates. People need to prepare themselves for individual debates, MPs prepare themselves, but after this debate is endless, which is interrupted by numerous breaks, it is no longer known at all what the agenda topic is, MPs give up individual debates because often these discussions last endlessly and more simply almost such discussions make no sense. And I don't know from where, and I have no idea where my colleague Maras is being punished for his words in the Parliament. I have no idea where, who said it, where it's written and who's thinking about it. Therefore, as far as I have information and I have quite a lot of information about what we are proposing and what we are thinking about amending the Rules of Procedure has not a word about financial punishment for MPs. The MP has the right to speak, he can speak as much as he wants but he needs to talk about what's the point of the agenda. This is the purpose, for this is the elected representatives to speak in the Parliament according to the Rules of Procedure which they have established on the agenda points and not to talk about anything but what is the point of the agenda. This is not the kind of debate we want in the Croatian Parliament. We want Parliamentarians to speak properly, clearly within their capabilities, to learn about the agenda of what is the item of the agenda and not to talk about everything just not the item of the agenda and then to accuse those who are trying to bring such debate into the frameworks of the Rules of Procedure that they are obstructing those who talk about everything but the points of the agenda. I mean, we've come up with such an absurd situation that attacks on advocates who claim to speak, discuss the agenda, try to contribute to the debates of raising the quality of the proposed laws, so we're accused of wanting to do so by those who talk about everything but what we should talk about and why they're elected here in the Croatian Parliament. We help you respected colleagues to come to the level of debates which will contribute to the quality of the law proposed in the Croatian Parliament. And there will be an amendment to the Rules of Procedure and not to the silence of anyone or anyone for anything financial punishment or for that is necessary, nor is there a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55932	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mario Šilj, here you are, colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55934	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I would like to request a break from the Mosta Club for 10 minutes, the current political situation in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55935	Okay. Of course I'll grant you that break, so I'll see you at one and... Comrade Boric, let's see if anyone else is answering.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55936	Same 10 minutes on the same subject. Ten minutes on the same topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55937	On the same topic, the current political situation. Anyone else want to discuss other issues than they're in the agenda? Oh, no? So I'll see you at 13.45. [[It's a 13,35 o'clock meeting.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.45 HOURS]] Stanka has expired, so I will give my word on behalf of the MOST club of independent lists to the respected representative Miri Bulju, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here I was looking for a break. Otherwise, we Assembly representatives when we pass very important laws, otherwise we expect a bar in the final presentation of some answers to the questions. However, the representatives have recently been so disdainful or they have been warned not to answer the questions we are asking. But constructive questions. Here I asked a fellow secretary, Mr. Secretary as a person earlier because this law essentially cleaned up everything Mr. Vrdoljak intended in 2014 because this Water Law was an obstacle to selling in essence, to go to the sale of 25% of the shares of HEP via the IPO. And that's what Andrej Plenkovic said. We don't even get an answer in the final word. I mean, this is critical, meaning thinking about a parliamentary agent who's opening up some kind of debate where we're trying to think and protect some of the national interests and strategic companies. In both the previous very important legislative initiatives, the government's legal proposals are absolutely not apparent. All day long, Minister of Agriculture, i.e. The Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture is sitting here as a representative of the law, not a single word, has been shown on all proposals when it was the Law on the OPGs. Well, I mean, we're parliamentary agents. In the end, we make the decision. But this law that we discussed today and other laws that are very important for the survival and strategic resources in this area, the survival of people. Finally, by now, it may be in Parliament that it is used to going through and being just a handlifter. And of course we Parliamentarians can't know everything, but the fact that we're talking about HEP is the fact that we're talking about the Water Act as the biggest strategic resource. If only the law changes about the construction, the hydrothermia becomes owned by 1/1 HEP, if it was the only obstacle to sales, then of course we will ask if it is an obstacle to sales, an announcement announced by Andrej Plenkovic 2016. Here's a year like I said when she was a MP, where he announced he was going to sell HEP for a 25% purchase of INA. This is unacceptable for us for the MOST club, probably for most MPs. I expect as a parliamentary representative, because we make a decision, they want to devalue the greatest House, Parliament. We're making a decision. To answer our questions, the secretary doesn't listen to the Prime Minister or the minister or I don't know who he calls from the Parliament. Don't answer these questions. So give your concrete answer. If I asked you if this law made all the obstacles to being torn down, to go into the privatisation of HEP, to realize the dream of Ivan Vrdoljak, which he announced in 2014. But this was the brake that you have proposed here, then I would ask you to respond to the MPs. And once again on behalf of the club MOST and probably the entire opposition we are disappointed that such a very important law is being thrown into the procedure the day before announced. I would really like to have these fair laws as a parliamentary representative to discuss as much as possible, as much as I can hear the reasons for, against, of course, the remark and the solution to this problem. And once again, here's the esteemed secretary. I ask him once again if you erased with this law all the obstacles that Ivan Vrdoljak's dream of selling HEP 25%, announcement 2014. And in 2016, at the end of the year, Prime Minister Plenkovic announced it for a year. Is this law allowed to go to the privatisation of HEP when HEP is entered into these buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55940	The next is the Representatives' Club is the HDZ on behalf of which Croatia's respected representative Zekanovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55941	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, colleague Bulj. The answer is no, short and clear. That's what the secretary of state will tell you later. This law that's just preventing these things that you're talking about, what's clearly in the law. This law, after all, that you haven't pointed out all the time, was prepared and at the time when it was your portfolio, so you had a lot of influence on this law, so I'm sure that it will also confirm that your colleague Dobrović that now, with one quality law, all of what you are, questions you have sent to a respected secretary of state, you can also direct fellow Dobrović and you will see that this is a good, quality law. It can always be better, I agree. But here's what I think is an extremely good argument. But I would talk here, given that there has been a break, so there can be a little bit of this about a very big problem that, unfortunately, so far in the Croatian Parliament the last seven days no one has spoken about, and this is about jeopardising national security through the prevention and control of information. Many of you have heard, and some have experienced that since 29 November after that tragic event in The Hague when General Praljak took his own life, that hundreds of thousands of posts, that tens of thousands of profiles in Croatia are primarily on Facebook but also on other social networks blocked, that millions of posts have been deleted. It is about one thing, I will say an extremely well-planned attack on one form of expression, meaning the public opinion that we need to know in the Constitution of the Croatian Article 38 is guaranteed to everyone, meaning freedom of speech and freedom of expression. With the fact that you need to know another thing that today in Croatia a lot of citizens get information right through social networks, no more over television, no more over radio or press, but just through social networks so that we have one serious threat to national security. This way, I call upon all the institutions that are competent to investigate who it is. It's not about the verse, it's not about the group looking for a group, it's about a group of people who are organized, paid with well-known goals that may be in Croatia, and maybe outside of Croatia, you wouldn't guess where they are, let the institutions question it and who managed to erase absolutely all the posts concerning General Praljko. All pictures, even posts that were "We pray for General Praljak", "Let General Praljak rest in peace". There's one more thing we need to say here that's very serious. It is about posts or views of citizens who are identical to the official position of the Republic of Croatia. Prime Minister Plenkovic, Prime Minister and President of the Republic of Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic voiced the same attitude and the attitude of the citizens who said so, wrote on social networks, is deleted. I must further point out here, in the National Security Strategy adopted recently, it is very explicit that this is one form of hybrid war that poses a danger to the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I can read what the strategy actually says. The role of the Internet is becoming increasingly important in creating social and security processes. In view of society's dependence and thus Croatian societies and individuals on the Internet, information technology is increasingly threatened by individuals, organisations and countries, regardless of their motives. The Republic of Croatia was obviously exposed this time to a form of hybrid action that contains elements of the weakness of Croatian sovereignty and independence, undermining demographic values and freedom. I as a representative at the Croatian Parliament and many other colleagues had the same problem. The current profile has been blocked for "I pray for General Praljak" for 24 hours. Pages of major Croatian portals, I admit.hr, People.hr are gone. I think it's a major security issue that needs to be questioned urgently because it's not about Facebook, it's not about Instagram, this kind of cybernetic hybrid action tomorrow can be applied on television, on the radio, and nobody said a word about it. So it's not about Zuckerberg, it's not about Facebook, it's about groups from the state or abroad, I wouldn't be guessing here where they're from, which are well organized and know what they're doing. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55942	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55943	... Who? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry. Mr. Bull is right, he asked for a word before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55944	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club, for 10 minutes, to discuss the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55945	... He's asked for it before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Bunja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55946	Thank you very much, chairing on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes to discuss analytical reports of water quality in Plitvice Lakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55947	Is there anyone else who's looking, please, Mr. Bull, you'll have the right to speak now. Is there anyone else? Are you ready to talk right now? Here you go. If, sir, I didn't ask you, are you ready to talk right now? Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55948	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary, has been running in the past, improvising HEP and I will now talk a little bit about improvising HEP and announcements, i.e. I'll quote, a year ago, to repeat Andrej Plenkovic's Christmas MEP 2016, where he said he was going into HEP improvisation with 25% to buy INA. And Croatia's INA will be well-known for these privatisations, examples, the SDP started improvisation of INA, and ended HDZ, and telecommunications started HDZ and ended SDP. However, all the time we spoke in the debate, I asked the secretary a question and he just answered the next point. When I asked his question at the next point, he did not answer, referring therefore to my question, where I denied him, where he told the lie, about the Water Act. I will now repeat, in order for 25% of the shares to be sold, upon the announcement of Andrej Plenkovic, the issue of ownership of HEPs and hydrocentrals, which was complicated after the government of Jadranka Kosor was led by HDZ in 2011. In that government, the Water Act decided that land should not be connected to water buildings, state property was sold, because then the HEP government put it to be a strategic company and to privatise them, and thus only ownership of the buildings remains in the state, not to be the other state owner. And in that hydrothermia, among other things, are the most important. However, the same thing was repeated by Ivan Vrdoljak, what he said in 2014. Economy Minister Zoran Milanovic came up with the idea of selling 25% of HEP shares through the IPO also found that... has proved to be one of the biggest obstacles at the beginning of HEP privatisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it was an obstacle in order to achieve the words of Andrej Plenkovic, and before Vrdoljak. Now it seems that the obstacle to being removed, so because it came here to Parliament, in fact I didn't get a concrete answer, except what he said, the secretary, I agree with him, he said, that it wasn't the only obstacle, but it was the biggest. She is not the only one, to meet the government's announcement, about the sale of 25% of shares. Of course, that we will oppose the sale of HEP, the Mosta Club was also last year in 2016 while we were in government, opposed the sale of HEP he announced, so Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Dalic. Therefore, the secretary earlier said, one half truth, I will not tell the truth, because he said he was not the only obstacle, but the biggest obstacle, is what you today, the ones who had the law in the first reading, and therefore once again point out, that he is hiding behind this, and we must repeat as parliamentary representatives, the privatisation of HEP of 25% of what Andrej Plenkovic announced and, of course, Minister Vrdoljak, 2014. He announced this, unfortunately, there is this obstacle and now we are the obstacle, finally, the government has sent it openly to us parliamentary representatives, and Croatian waters are very important, the Water Act is very important. However, this only hides the clearing of the road and the most important obstacles to the privatisation of HEP, which is a strategically very important company and this people will not allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55949	Thank you too, Mr. Bunzac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55950	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Here, we're discussing water today, we've got two laws, one's the Water Act, the other's about funding. So next, let us look at how we treat one of our most valuable resources, as well as world heritage and specifically Plitvice Lakes. In 2014, the local HDZ administration adopted a spatial plan, and it was certified by the Croatian Parliament, that construction facilities should be built within Plitvice Lakes. And of course, from that time on, a minimum of 50 building permits were issued, which are generally obtained by tycoons directly linked to political structures that go all the way to the state summit itself. It is of course by nature in no way concerned but water pollutes by waste water, sewage, and also by artificial fertilisers and pesticides. If such a situation continues for some time Plitvice Lakes will disappear, and I warn UNESCO itself is thinking of removing Plitvice Lakes from the World Heritage List because of the extreme mismanagement. If you think these conclusions are exaggerated they show you reports on the quality of water from Plitvice Lakes that the public has not yet seen. So now I'm showing them for the first time where they're going to tell you in a brief way what the water is like on Plitvice Lakes. So this is water analyzed from the source of the great waterfall. There should be no milligram of sewers in that water, not a milligram and 131 milligrams per litre of water. This is surface water from the Plitvica stream, an analysis of course of the Institute of Public Health which is authorized to do these analyses. Here is the sewerage water of up to 380 milligrams per litre, and the Escherichia coli is 10 milligrams per litre. Here you also have an analysis of water from Plitvice Lakes, which states that, therefore, the amount of anionic tensions in water is specifically in the translation of detergents. The water detergent should not be more than one milligrams, and there are 841 milligrams. So 840 times more detergents in the waters of Plitvice Lakes than is allowed. Also, there should be no wastewater of more than 35 milligrams per litre, and here we have 780 milligrams per litre. We also have water tests here on artificial fertilisers and pesticides, insecticides and other herbicides. Their amount in water should not be more than two milligrams per litre, be careful, watch out for two milligrams per litre and is 3552 milligrams. So not two but 3552, so this is the official document of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. This Croatian Institute of Public Health issues this solution that says that water on Plitvice Lakes is completely incompatible with human use. It means not to drink, but not to put on hands and that the water is insufferable to smell. Depending on each season, it smells more or less. So here's the situation that we have on one of the most valuable water resources the Republic of Croatia has, and that clearly shows what the Government is up to with the Water Law with the Law on Public Water Financing. She means to leave the water to private interests, she wants to leave what is our most valuable resource and fundamental human right to exploit individuals who will be very rich on it, and we Croatian citizens will no longer be able to walk on Plitvice Lakes, but we will no longer be able to have available guides at all, which means we will have two opportunities. It's one thing to become strangers, to move to other countries where laws like this are more appropriate. Or else to be slaves in our own homeland. Well, I pray you know that when some secretaries come here and tell us fairy tales about how they care about Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u55951	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63223	Before we go to work, just one piece of information, for today, so there will be a change in the agenda. Since we do not have the conditions to discuss this point for point 5 today, we will not discuss this point but instead, this is the point of the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers on the European Partnership of the P.Z. 235. Instead of this point, we will discuss the points of the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 238 and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, P.Z.E. No. 242. So we're going to discuss them as points 3 and 4 today and points 3 and 4 become points 5 and 6. Here, my colleague Panenic, just to announce, means the first point today that we are going to discuss is the proposal for a law supplementing the law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public donations by insurance companies, first reading, P.Z. No. 236. We're moving on to the agenda now. The first point is: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public contributions by insurance companies, first reading, P.Z. number 236. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. I would ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, it is a respected Majda Buric State Secretary in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System with full legitimacy today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63225	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Jandrokovic, respected representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So before us is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Collection, Processing and Connecting, Using and Exchange of Information on Receipts and Public Payments by Insurance. The applicable law introduces a unique template for the pooled collection and delivery of data, on receipts and grants by insurance companies, etc. The JOPPD form on which the data is collected by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administration and the Central Insurance Register, or Regos. However, for all obligations incurred prior to the entry into force of the law it is necessary to enable the collection of data through the forms in force at the time of the application. The need for data to be submitted in the old forms of RS and RSM still exists and should continue to exist, without a time limit, in order to give the bonds an opportunity to fulfil their legal obligation resulting from previous developments and, consequently, to link already paid funds to the contribution of the second pillar of pension insurance which is now on the provisional account for the inability to deploy to personal accounts could be linked to the duties. In the circumstances where the obligor has paid a compulsory contribution and has not submitted the RS or RSM regos forms, he cannot then link the unrelated payments and forward the funds to the personal accounts that he has for the direct consequence of keeping the funds in a temporary account that is administered by the Regos or the central insurance register. A part of the debtor who has not submitted a RS and RSM form has ceased to exist, but part is still active and there is a reasonable expectation for them to subsequently submit a RS or RSM form. The proposed addition of the law allowing the submission of data for old obligations in old forms will therefore allow further reduction of the number of unrelated payments recorded in the provisional account. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63226	3 are the replicas of this exhibition, the first is the respected colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63227	Respected secretary of state with legitimacy this time. One short question, do you know how much funds there are in the passing account and how much they've spent the past two years with the account to deposit with that account they've combined with the insurance company. So how successful Regos has been in connection with real insurance payments in the last two years and how much more of these funds are in that transitional account.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63228	Do you want an answer or something? Here you go. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63229	Thank you, dear Mr. Gristle. First of all, I would like to say that Regos has focused his additional activities on direct contact and communication by sending information notices on the existence of these unrelated payments on the name of the contribution and the need to submit data and has encouraged a significant response by the taxpayer to the subsequent submission of the law of the prescribed data, thereby thereby reducing the number of unrelated payments recorded in the provisional account. However, since there is still about 30 million kuna on the provisional account, there is a great need to, I will say, paint this part so that it can be forwarded from the temporary account to the personal accounts of the users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63230	Second replica, dear colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63231	Dear fellow Buric, it would be good if you would explain a little bit to us and whether these 300 million kunas are then in practice some people are waiting for what made this happen and how we came into a situation to happen in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63232	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63233	Dear Mr Maras, therefore, no one has yet realized the possibility that people are still working and that is the responsibility of the constitution of employers who should submit the RS and RSM forms, so for the obligations that have been made in the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63234	And the third replica, dear colleague of the Bunyan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63235	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here we are now learning that the transfer of money going to be accelerated for the second pension column. And it's nice while people can get paid contributions. On the other hand, we should welcome this initiative. However, what concerns me personally and I believe the vast majority of Croatian citizens is the fact that many people work and do not receive contributions. It is known that in Croatia there are whole dams such as buildings where people get minimum wage and get paid by hand. So they would also like to be paid into those retirement pillars but they are not paid anything. Some say that the vast majority of companies actually operate in such an illegal way and get through that so-called. The grey economy in the Croatian economy lost about 10 to 30% of the total. So I'm interested in the concerns shown by your ministry of therefore filling the pension funds that you're taking in order to keep this grey economy in check, that all Croatian citizens would be entitled to pensions and not only those who work in the state services where these payments are regularly so those who are actually filling the state budget most, which is therefore employees in the real sector, that would be my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63236	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63237	Thank you, dear Mr. Bunzac. First of all, I'm glad you welcome this bill. So what I would like to stress on this occasion is that employers' obligations are clearly prescribed by all the positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia, and you also know that the labour inspectorate himself is doing his part of the work under what he is in charge of. This part of you that you asked about deals with tax administration inspection, or the Ministry of Finance, and you asked about the black and gray economy, so you know for a fact that our minister here yesterday once again stressed the intense fight against black and gray economy, so here he is, that's the answer to your replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63238	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee of Labour, the pension system and social partnership, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63239	Thank you very much. At the 24th session held on 29 November 2017, colleagues, the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public contributions by insurance companies, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 23 of November 2017 and discussed in accordance with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. After the opening presentation of the representative of Ms Buric's proposal, which pointed out that the proposed law allowed permanent retention in the function of previously established and developed reception channels, data and programming solutions, which relate to the law prescribed by insurance companies for the period until 31.12.2013, the committee unanimously, with 8 votes for, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion, which is that the proposal for a law on the completion of the law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public administrations is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63240	I'm opening a debate, the first word came from the HDZ Representatives' Club and the esteemed colleague Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63241	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary, assistant minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal to supplement a law whose name is longer than that of the article in question but regardless of which it is extremely important to supplement the law since it refers to one part of the pensioners or those who will retire where it is important for them not to be reduced because one part of the payments made would not actually be counted on their account and therefore would not receive a full pension. Collection and processing of data by insurance companies is the basis for connecting for... data on the payment of contributions made for compulsory pension insurance based on individualised and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Saving that consequently... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the funds on the personal accounts of the insurance company in the selected mandatory pension funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The failure to supply regulated data by insurance companies has the effect of not connecting data on the payment of compulsory pension contributions and the retention of funds in a commercial account managed by the central insurance register or REGOS. The proposed law allows the permanent retention in the function of the previously established data-receiving channels and solutions to mean the RS form and the RSM form and refers to the data prescribed by the insurance companies for the period until 31 December and from 1.1.2002 to 31.12.2013 respectively. The way in which the data are accepted for prior to the introduction of the form has been assessed as the simplest, most acceptable cost for the obligors as well as for all other stakeholders in the system and, therefore, the well-accepted effective way of connecting data to payments and types of income and minimising costs, both on the part of the obligor and the part relating to the use of funds from the state budget. Also, this is how you ensure... effective mechanism... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the funds paid by insurance companies and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Passing funds to personal accounts to selected optional pension funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the circumstances where the obligor has paid a compulsory contribution and has not submitted a RS and RSM form, REGOS cannot link these unrelated payments and forward the funds to a personal account which has a less direct result of the funds on personal accounts and ultimately a lower amount of pension with the basis of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individualised and capitalised savings. Part of the taxpayer who submitted forms and is still active, for them it is realistic to expect the subsequent submission of these forms and as we heard, about 300 million kuna is on the account of REGOS who will at some point come and connect, in fact these funds will come to the expense of the debtor. What is important is that employers, or those who take care of their employees, are in charge of this. What is very important is that consultation with the interested public has also been carried out, that there have been no objections, which means that this bill is important, serious and only improves opportunities or solves the problem of potentially smaller pensions for those who would not have been paid this amount of funds. The proposed supplement allows the submission of the need for old commitments on old forms, allowing further reduction of the number of unrelated payments recorded on... And because we're dealing with this one problem, we can say that HDZ will accept this bill that I think is extremely important and good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63242	Thank you, no replicas, so let's go to another club debate, it's SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63243	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This is one short bill, and I don't think there was a need to go into two readings, I think we could agree to go through an emergency procedure, because this is a law, an amendment to the law that allows a transitional account to match the funds from this account with insurance accounts in pension funds. What is worrying is that despite the fact that the JOPPD has been operational for 4 years and that we still have funds in that account that are not allocated and thus damage insurance, so all of us who are in the 2 retirement pillar, but in some way also damage those who are in pension funds, therefore, who already have funds there, because these funds will not get, therefore, pension funds, will not then be able to place them in bonds or shares and thus increase the value of the pension fund portfolio itself. Therefore, it is a double shame not to get rid of this and not to transfer those funds as soon as possible, where they should be transferred. In my replica, I asked the secretary of state, how much of the funds are in that account, hoping it would be below 100 million kuna, however, fracked me, so, if your number is correct, it's now 300 million in that account. In 2015, when the government, the SDP, the government missed HDZ to lead, among other things, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system and the entire system, there were around 190 million kunas in the account. So in these three years, 2.5 years, the funds have grown by another 110 million kuna. So, the funds that aren't allocated. It can only say one thing not to do anything, to connect payments, to insurance companies and to do nothing. Because the funds in that account wouldn't be laughing at growth, because there's no more RES patterns than a JOPPD pattern, or there's a problem in the JOPPD pattern. So there's a problem that we can't pair things up, but 300 million is a huge number that's worrying, which we need to take very seriously, and I think it's also a message from this pay phone, to get together at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, to make some changes in REGOS, if you haven't already made them. Because apparently, things don't work in REGOS. 300 million euro of unallocated funds, the finance minister is pleased with that because it's in a transitional account, so he can use them. But 300 million kuna is an extremely large figure, large funds that are in an account that shouldn't be. So, it's to expect that there's always some funds in that account that are unscheduled, but they're eventually redeployed, new ones, which aren't paired, but 300 million kuna doesn't make sense, there's no way they're so much in that account. So I am extremely sorry that there has not been an additional shift, that one added effort, regardless of what the State Secretary said that REGOS contacted, that REGOS this is that, but either it is not true, or it was not successful or it should be done by some other mechanism. We harm insurance companies, those whose assets are not transferred to their property accounts in pension funds, we also harm pension funds because they can't dispose of those funds, and the damages to all of us who are in the 2nd pillar, because we're reducing the value of the shares, which the funds have in their portfolio, are bigger. Therefore, clearly we will support these amendments to the law. They're logical, but in any case, it's something that's inadmissible that 300 million kunas lie on the account unaligned, that the administration doesn't do anything to make the shifts in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63244	Thank you, we have two replicas. First of all, he's a respected colleague, Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63245	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Mrsic, I am only interested in the fact that you mentioned yourself that before it was in the mandate of our former government, 190 million. So, basically in 4 years it's 300 million, so the same problem remains the one that was before, which is now. I'm interested specifically, given that we're going to have now, slowly come to us those who have special regulations, pensions, which... And unfortunately because of this 2 pillar, they don't have the right to add, do you have any examples on a specific example of whether some of them are damaged that they haven't been transferred... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the funds from that transitional account, which could not then be later capitalised? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to what extent it could be, if we look at those values, that these funds are engrossed in all those 2 pillar assets. And as for the amount itself, so in the first 2 g. 190 million, in 2 incompletes of 2 110, is practically less. But I'm interested in, in fact, whether someone is really damaged, in which way it can be corrected, and given that you've discussed it so, that it should certainly be regulated and deployed from that transitional account according to the pension funds in the selection or to those to which the law has assigned, I agree... I don't think there's any dispute here, that we're all in agreement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But given that we now have those who retire and by force of the law to go to the second pillar, or to pay in the second pillar that they may find an example, I am talking about railways, or train drivers, so that they may be able to find an example of whether or not they have been paid or what that amount would be. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63246	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63247	Thank you very much. I don't think you've asked the methodologically well, because it's true that the coalition government led by the SDP left 190 million in that account of funds that haven't been allocated. When we arrived, in 2012, there were 280 million kunas of unscheduled funds on that account and then within a deadline, so that three years fell somewhere about 90 million kuna. However, what is the fact that since 2013 is also a JOPPD form that prevents this from happening. So there shouldn't be any more kuna in that account than it was when we left. So it was supposed to be below 190 million or 190 million. But it can't be 300 million kunas. Which means that in that account obviously or, therefore, something happened later, so I don't know if it'll explain to us what happened or we have a problem with the JOPPD pattern that then and through it we don't have a good connection between the funds paid by the company and my personal account, or the personal account of the pensioner. And that's what it is, so it can't be allowed. So there shouldn't be that much money in that account. So usually it's something but not so much. And naturally that if you don't transfer funds from that account that on my personal account and your personal account these funds will not be and that I will be damaged when I retire because those funds that my funds are not, so they entered the Peace Fund, they are not fertilized, so they are not accounted for by contributions etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63248	Thank you. Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63249	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mrsic, you have now responded to this previous replica in fact given part of the answer that I wanted to ask you the same question. Maybe I didn't get it right. This bill actually allows the data to return to the RS form that has been abolished. And the JOPPD pattern then probably didn't come back to life if these things happen again so they can't connect to the insurance companies again. Then either I didn't get it right, then what's going on. So this law won't solve the problem again. I realized that this law will solve the problems of unconnection. But according to what you're alleging now, it's still gonna pile up. And now it's not clear to me about and with the Central Office for Digital Society, the intensity actually of society that through the system of e-Citizens that at any moment, and we could ask the representatives of the fund, that I as an insurance company can at any moment see the situation in my second pillar. So it probably didn't make any of it live. So where's the OIB and everything else that's connected to it if you can explain it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63250	And my colleague Mrsic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63251	Thank you very much. So this law does not solve that problem. This law therefore allows amendments to the law to be made to those who sent them, so payments before 2013, before the JOPPD forms on this RSM form, that they can, therefore, after being contacted by REGOS so that they can then send the correct form and, therefore, by doing so, the REGOS funds can also be transferred to pension funds. So we allow what was in the past to continue to do the same, but only until 2013. So the RSM pattern doesn't go back to JOPPD staying. However, the question remains, we had 190 million 2015. Now we have 300 million and now there's a problem. So either after that, some deposits that are non-conforming came in, so we can't connect to who this payment came in from the company or we have a problem with the JOPPD pattern. But it's always going to be because companies will always be wrong, write some kind of wrong information, and there'll always be these non-cash payments. But the role of REGOS is to resolve it. So, they have to concentrate all their strength to get rid of those non-accompanied payments, to connect the money with the insurance company and the fund. And that's the role of REGOS alone. So either there's nothing going on in REGOS or there's some other problem. So that's the point. And I'm sorry that there's 300 million kuna in that account is far, far too much funds. Someone should answer for me. I note that there will always be non-performing payments, but that should be at least the level that it can be. I expected it to be about 90 million, but there it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63252	Thank you. Let's move on. The next club is the club of representatives of the HNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63253	I thank the president, my colleagues and my colleagues very briefly. I think it's a very clear topic. The change is very short, but contental and in the sense that everything that was before the introduction of the single form, therefore the JOPPD can be harmonised and that is exactly what we are discussing above all to really calculate, the earned money of our citizens and to distribute on them selected funds, i.e. the concrete second pillar. Of course, the HNS Club will support this amendment and the addition of the law. What I would certainly like to mention here and take this opportunity exactly and what I said earlier that we now have for the first time since the introduction of this pension system, so since 2002 and the second pillar that should have grown from 5, 10, and 15%, etc. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Some by force of the law because of their age had to, could not have had the right to choose whether to go to first or second. And they now, especially if they've been working on the benefits of an internship, have conditions for retirement. But what is happening is that those with that second pillar unfortunately do not exercise the right to add and they are in a more unfavourable position, and at the beginning when the law was conceived, the second pillar was to go up to the edge of the first pillar. In fact, although we know that there are insufficient payments in the first pension column, or in the state budget, that the state budget has to settle almost half of the funding in order to pay off all pensions and we all know that the negative ratio of employees and pensioners is and that this would disrupt the relationship. And probably that's why no previous governments have gone, and they've given up on that original imaginary act, so we have to approach it, but if we haven't decided to follow it to the end, we shouldn't follow those provisions to which we really put them in an unfavourable position compared to what we've forced them to go. So that's why I just want to draw attention to that part of it now that this topic is going to be current, until now people haven't gone to retirement on the second pillar because that period is too short because those who've already retired couldn't or had to go to it, and all those who forced us to do it because of the years they had in 2002 will come in 5 to 10 years and they'll start and then we'll meet in this potential problem, and now we'll see each other on those, I've mentioned here the train driver who now has an unfettered job experience and now meet the conditions for full-age retirement or early. So this part of the connection certainly makes it absolutely possible to deploy all the funds that someone has earned on the fund that has chosen or chosen the system to enlarge it to have what funds do, of course, receive annual reports, and how successful they have been in the location of these funds. Of course, it is primarily important that the calculation of the pension occurs in disagreements between what the employer has done and that is what he would like to see if we have such examples in which there is a clear calculation and how much employer has paid into that temporary account, and how much has been received in the second pillar, there is a difference there, and then see how much this would be a contribution to those funds that actually someone can make and the basis for the lawsuit against the state itself. So much, the HNS club will support this bill. We welcome everything he sees in unification, acceleration, and it's true in the data records especially what our insurance companies do... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63254	Thank you. One is a replica of a respected colleague, Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63255	Dear counterpart Curaj, you have well located the problem because those who do not get 27% of the pension allowance they will receive from the first and second pension pillar will obviously have problems with this part, so no matter how many problems they do not have 27%, they will now have problems that have unallocated funds. Because looking at the little structure now, it doesn't make sense that all these assets are unscheduled from the one before the period, so it's been three years and over, it's probably still paired up as much as it could pair up the funds and probably as far as RSM patterns are concerned, which we're now in charge of for a long time, and that's totally fine, it's probably just some unexplained cases, court proceedings, etc. But apparently, grotesque funds are a problem in the JOPPD form and nothing is done in Regos, and that's the problem now. Because the role of Regosa is to link payments to insurance and trust funds. So this 300 million is obviously a problem of the JOPPD pattern, or it's not a pattern problem, it's these companies or employers who filled out the wrong JOPPD pattern. And taught by the experience we had before most of it was related to the state administration, so in the morh and other things. And that is why at that level of coordination the government should have begun to resolve it. And I think the Secretary of State thinks she's got enough information to solve these things, so that's no longer a problem before the problem that's come up now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63256	Thank you. Answer to the replica of my colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63257	Thank you, Mr. President. If we really had an official answer right now, I think what's important is that we diagnosed and detected that there's obviously some problem, of course the question is how much of the problem at the level of the state administration itself is at the level of the employers themselves. What is important is what we have experience from previous years, companies that haven't made a contribution for years just to remind the public where companies ended up in bankruptcy before these legal provisions that they couldn't pay their net wages before they were paid, so it's also useful in the extreme line to that JOPPD form, we had companies where people went into retirement and received their full pension even though de facto their pensions were never paid. I believe it will be the case now that no one will be allowed to make a mistake of the company, the administration or anyone else. But I think what's... you might be right to check exactly what's the role of us and the regulatory bodies to by bringing it down to a minimum. That's what's always gonna happen. But what matters is what must always be in every law that no citizen must be brought into a more unfavourable status of any law and that no one must... let's say the state damaged. I don't think that's gonna happen right now. So I did ask if you had any idea that someone who had now retired regularly and used the second column had shown it to him as such. I have not yet received such information that there has been some discrepancy between payments and what is really in the account, especially in the second pillar. But certainly these are the topics that need to be seen and that this law itself jumps into one part of those previous payments, which you mentioned yourself, and that it should be regulated there is absolutely what we welcomed. I'm also interested in this part of the story about those we've forgotten when we haven't increased that share in the second pillar to 15% that they're seen in due course about the addition to that, because I think it's unfairly damaged or they've been imposed on something under calculation that's going to be different, but unfortunately, it's given up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63258	And let's go to the last exhibit on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63259	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I thank everyone for a constructive and focused debate and I am glad that we all agree on solving the problem of funds in a temporary account which is intended to direct them to the personal accounts of the users. First of all, I would like to say that on the very day of November 28th, there are 287 million kunas in the provisional account, and once again I would like to stress that it is really important that we solve this problem with these supplements, and these very additions will be settled in a temporary account that will be focused on personal accounts. In addition, I think we will all agree that it is important to continue to raise awareness of the importance of the exact fulfillment of the forms of both JOPPD and this RS and RSM forms so that the funds do not stand in the provisional account if something is misfulfilled. Finally, I would point out once again that Regos, therefore the central insurance register, has made additional efforts related to all information on the existence of unrelated payments which we are talking about on the name of the contribution and the need to submit data, and has encouraged a significant response by the taxpayers for the subsequent submission of the law of the prescribed data and thus managed to reduce the number of unrelated payments recorded in the provisional account but since they continue to exist, here I am glad that these additions to the law on the collection, processing and connection, use and exchange of data on receipts and public contributions by insurance companies solve the problem that has been recorded.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63260	We have one replica. Re-respected colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63261	Dear Secretary of State, the law won't solve it. Because it's not the role of the law to link payments from a transitional account, it's the role of Regos. And so Regos didn't encourage enough because you have 280 or 320 million or 300, anyway, far too much in that account and hasn't cut it, but it's obvious there's been an increase. And obviously that's the problem, so Regos isn't doing his job. Because his only job as a regulatory agency is to connect and transfer funds from the employer to the insurance company's account in the pension fund. And it's the only role Regos and nothing else. But obviously that doesn't work. Because there wouldn't be that much money in this account. And this, so here, unlike some other agency, is very easy to measure whether the agency is doing its job or not, how much funds in the transitional account are so efficient or good. He's obviously not here. When we talk about the R-Sm pattern about 280 million kuna on top of the head is somewhere between 50, 60 million that are related to the R-Sm form, everything else is left for you to clear up in Regos which employer, which insurance company, which pension fund. And here you can see, so 280 million, 300 marks that Regos doesn't work and Regos leadership doesn't do its job. And therefore, you cannot avoid that fact. The law won't solve it because the law doesn't solve anything, he just says you can send over this form again what you've been sending so far. And that's the problem and you haven't solved that problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63262	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63263	Thank you, dear Mr. Gristle. Here's a short, we recognize the problem and we're solving the problem and once again I'm going to repeat, I really believe that everyone's goal is to transfer these funds to a temporary account that is exactly 287 million kuna from the provisional account on 28 November of this year, and they have the opportunity to transfer to the insurance company's personal accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63264	Thank you. Thank you, everyone who participated in the debate. I now conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public provision by insurance companies, first reading, P.Z. No. 236, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public transfers by insurance companies and others will be adopted, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 123 votes for and 3 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63267	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. So before us is the Final Proposal of the Law on the termination of the Retirement Fund Act. The Retirement Fund Act has been adopted in order to fulfil the obligations arising from the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's Constitutional Court Decision, which has been governed since 12 May 1998 by the compensation of the beneficiaries of the pension under the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998. A year. On the basis of that Law, a special pension fund was established from which pensioners as well as their successors from the first inheritance line paid the sums of individual benefits each year. In the period from 2006 to 2016 HPB invested d.o.o., the pension fund management company paid a total of 10 billion, 252 million 748 thousand 377 kuna and 99 June for 488 thousand and 577 members of the Pension Fund. Since the last war so-called war was paid on 19 December 2013. debt to pensioners, as the founder of the pension fund, has fulfilled its last obligation to pay compensation to all the fund members, thus ending the need for the existence of a pension fund. By way of effect of this law, the pension fund ceases to exist and HZMO will take over the property, rights and obligations of the pension fund and will, for its own sake and for its own account, take over the cases in the procedures which are not terminated until the entry into force of this law, in particular, 6 court proceedings of total value of 436 646 kuna and 44 June. On 30 June 2017, the amount of funds in the accounts of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the pension fund amounted to 5,48 million kuna, unused financial resources will be transferred to the account of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia as the funds of deposits from which HZMO will pay the costs for the conduct of the procedure and to carry out further transactions. The fund and HZMO management company will conclude within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law, an agreement which will detailedly regulate the transmission of data and documentation, mutual rights and obligations and within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, the company will submit both to the Croatian Parliament and to the Croatian Parliament and to the HANFA and the HZMO the revised financial report on the state of the assets and liabilities of the fund with effect on the date of entry into force of the law. The supervision of the operation of the fund management company in the section relating to the obligations arising from this law for the company will be carried out by the Croatian Supervisory Financial Services Agency, HANFA. On the draft final draft of the law, opinions of the resolution bodies have been drawn up which have been shown to have no objections and the text of the final proposal of the law is identical to the text in the first reading, i.e. the proposal to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63268	We have one replica, dear colleague Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63269	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, since this is a huge amount and I think it's because, and I can tell the historical truths and also because of a very frequent debate in this House, I said that when I first read it and I'm going to say it now, I'm missing one piece of information. And that's what funds this fund is funded from? Why? Because it's very common when we need it for the political bickering of INA's privatisation stories, the story of HT shares, so we need to see how much INA's sales are on the IPO, as well as HT's and ended up in the fund, how much the state has to borrow and thus increase public debt so that it can pay off this debt to pensioners because if you're simply saying that something ends and ends and is founded with one basic goal, that it can pay off debt to pensioners based on constitutional judgment, then it should simply be said. Because here someone comes in after a while and the INA's banged up like that, so when it wasn't easy to borrow on the world's money market that the funds were not delivered in such a way could not be paid back to the pensioners, it's simply a fact. Now let someone say that this debt should not have been paid back, whether it would have political courage. Because these are the facts, it was simply then a political decision to get rid of it in such a way. 'Cause look, the total debt of the pensioners was arranged somewhere for 15 billion that amount, so those who agreed...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63270	Wait a minute, Comrade Shuker. I'm begging you don't behind your back counsel to do this. I mean, it's really not right. ... And it doesn't matter who it is, but you come to a man, he can write a love letter, say, who knows who. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Well, I don't think it's really right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63271	So, I'd like to say that the pensioners who have agreed to practically one-time payment have also agreed to a 50% reduction, those who have not paid the 100% amount, and therefore, I personally think that this is the data. Okay, you took my time, no problem. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63272	Comrade Beljak, breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63273	I think the injured article of Rules of Procedure 238, because Mr. Schucker was talking about things that we haven't had the chance to hear from a respected secretary of state, and yet we're back unfortunately in the past and again trying to justify the privatisation robbery that was committed, the sale of INA, T-COM, in some way pushing the thesis that we had to do so in order to repay the debt to the pensioners. What's happened and what hasn't happened, I think the public knows very well and there's no need to go back into the past and cry over the milk that HDZ spilled. INA was not to be sold, HT was not to be sold or sold, it was to be sold in the set because we know very well that Croatian mail and telecommunications were separated into a part which was also potentially highly profitable and it was called Telekom and mails that were lowly profitable, or in a minus for a whole number of years were singled out and were not in the portfolio that was being sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63274	Comrade Belja, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure at all, this is a classic use of this institute to replicate your colleagues to Shuker, who did nothing to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I give you a warning. Here, reply to the replica, colleague Buric. ... You received a warning because you abused the Rules of Procedure and used it as a replica, so there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you replicated it. [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] [[Whitefish, you don't understand.]] The intruder can't be heard. Ha, then you have the opportunity to appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and explain why you think it wasn't correct of me to give you a warning. Here, you have that possibility, you do it, so if I'm wrong, that's what the board will argue. ... I have the same criteria. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Belja, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure at all, this is a classic use of this institute to replicate your colleagues to Shuker, who did nothing to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I give you a warning. Here, reply to the replica, colleague Buric. ... You received a warning because you abused the Rules of Procedure and used it as a replica, so there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you replicated it. [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] [[Whitefish, you don't understand.]] The intruder can't be heard. Ha, then you have the opportunity to appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and explain why you think it wasn't correct of me to give you a warning. Here, you have that possibility, you do it, so if I'm wrong, that's what the board will argue. ... I have the same criteria. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63276	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's Mr. Shucker, bound and taught to what you said, I would only repeat once again, if I thought it was extremely good, that our pensioners, as well as their heirs, were compensated from the first inheritance order that they were paid 10.2 billion. As well as 2.3 billion interest, I believe that a truly final draft law on the termination of the Pension Fund Act is acceptable as such, and the rhetorical question is a simple question, which should not be answered, so that I would not comment on that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63277	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and it's the first turn of the Advocacy Club of the Bridges and the Independent Lists and the Honorable Fellow Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63278	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so here I will try to look back in a brief discussion at this proposal of the Retirement Fund Act. I think that's important if for no other reason, then for moral reasons, it should be said, that this fund started working on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on 12.5.1998, according to which the Constitutional Court ruled that the pensioners had been robbed. Here,... That word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they were given what rights they had, their peace offerings were not harmonised, and that was by the government's decision, the 1993 government regulation. So, the Government Regulation, not the Parliament's decision, but the government's regulation, which prevented the dexation of pensions. These pensioners, according to data 424744, were with a total claim of 11 billion, 400 million, 99 thousand kuna. When we look at the age of these pensioners, they were, most of them from 71 to 75 years, 105000 from 66 to 70 years, 95,000 from 76 to 80 73,000. So, by some kind of Gauss curve, about 70 years ago, they were old people. They were deprived of the right and, of course, that old people, by nature things, and times were postwar, were not so or simply opposed to such legal solutions, these are the people whose rights were taken away. And then what happened then was offered to them, model A and model B. And you see what population it's about, so people who were older and usually accepted model A, so 50% of their claims gave up. And what should certainly be mentioned, when we talk about time periods, the decision taken by the Constitutional Court in '98. And interest is accounted for, not since '93. When they performed, there were damages, but just since '98. Sir, we've been tightening interest rates since the time of the Constitutional Court's adoption, which was wrong. And then eight more years go by by the start of the payoff, and there's a tight interest actually being arbitraryly determined, based on the people who did it, taking some average size of a tight interest, I think it was somewhere around 19%, and that's now another way that they're cut off. Of course, people are lucky they got that, too, but that, I think it's important to emphasize it here. So, on two occasions, neither interest was determined properly. And on the other hand they didn't get, especially those from the group, who decided on model A didn't get their own resources. Why is it important to mention this today? Namely, the pensioners, from that moment on, have been there since '93. until this mini reform from '99. So the introduction of a second pension post, to this day, we don't really have a solution to the question of the pensioners and their future. We didn't solve it. Soon, this is mentioned today, here in the debate, colleague Curaj mentioned, the situation will come, that pensioners who are in the 2nd pillar, who will already, especially women, in 2019 can come into early retirement, men in 2022 will be significantly behind. Especially if this 27% supplement is not lifted. Because the 5% that was set for the 2 pension pillar is not enough to achieve sufficient capitalised savings, so that they have a decent pension. And so, and this 15% if it goes into one retirement column, it won't be enough to cover pensions, which should ensure a decent life. And what needs to be pointed out today, that a large number of pensioners have very small pensions, even those pensions are about 200 kn. And we can say that it's not pensions, but it's, it's, it's, it's not even social aid. These people are doomed. And the Republic of Croatia, urgently, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has to deal with this problem. There is not much wisdom, or we will increase payments in 2 pension columns, so that people later can make more money through... capital savings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or you need to go back to this model 1 column. And it's as simple from a budget as so far to pay, so that people can have a decent age. This way, we won't solve long-term problems. There is, of course, a pension, early retirement, and an increase in age. But the key is actually economic development and employment, because this situation generates angles. Retirement and insurance, which is now thinking 1 2 to 1. So on one, we only have 1.2 employees on one pensioner. As far as the bill is concerned, the Mosta Club will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63279	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker. ... I'm sorry. [[-Bukarica raider, you don't understand.]] Then I got a little confused. The first is Honorable Representative Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63280	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Žagar, you have described the development of this Pension Fund as a result of the fact that you literally said the words of the robbery of the pensioners of this country in '93. The year of the war. And we know that, one day we'll all be retired, that this is a period when a man is quite powerless, he can no longer work as he did and should be protected. Now, if the Constitutional Court has ruled that pensioners should be compensated, and you have described that the interest that should have been paid from before, charged over the previous period has not been made. So I'm asking you if it's then and also today's systematic policy of a bad relationship with pensioners who not only then, so this fund is now shutting down, closing down. However, we also now have a continuation of this intolerable situation that the largest number of pensioners are living badly, that the average pension is reduced compared to the average salary. Are we going to have a case again, so if someone is suing for damage to the pensioners, that is to say, to ask you more precisely why in your opinion you were waiting for a court case to be conducted and the Constitutional Court's decision. And you see, by a regulation, the government has made a decision that it will not, therefore, index pensions or today should lead a completely different policy of keeping let's say the pension steps towards average growth, the growth of average wages. And as you paint this policy, whether it's a policy of continuity of bad relations with pensioners or something else on stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63281	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63282	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Lovrinović, there and after the Constitutional Court decided to repay the debt even then, in fact, the state did not want to send pensioners solutions on their debt, but only called it a notice. And the solution could have led to a lawsuit. So these people were definitely damaged. Even politicians always like to use it, so if you remember those times, politicians took pictures with the pensioners as if they were giving them something before Christmas, and they were actually returning what was taken from them. They didn't ask for anything other than what they had legal right to do, and when in this second part, when I talk about pensions, this is a serious issue and really every unserious approach, and it turns out in the Republic that we often have some ad hoc solutions. Well, this was actually an ad hoc solution with these 27% additions over the years as it was added to pensions. And now the same problem is happening. 27% are not entitled to this from the mixed system of the first and second pillars. And these people will be in big trouble. We have a promise from the minister that this will be left to 27%. But then again, what about the Convergence Plan and what about the National Reform Plan? We must answer what we will offer in the future to our people or people who will retire. In what way they'll earn today, so they'll have a decent pension tomorrow. Because things don't change, they actually get more complicated. Sometimes it's said an older man doesn't need it, but it looks like an older man needs more money today because expensive drugs are expensive. Because you'll see, we'll also have a reform of the health system, so then simply people need it, they need to be prepared for what's waiting for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63283	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63284	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Sagar, that I agree with you absolutely as to the pleasures and pleasures that people have been paid for both their backs and their backs, and in the extreme line of course, this interest should be checked exactly what the Constitutional Court's decision is. What you mentioned is certainly the one that is absolutely still the topic that is yet to come. You said it yourself in 2022 in five years when people start exercising pension rights in women is that before. Of course, I also mentioned in those who go on privileged pensions that the issue of the pension system is certainly something that needs to be further developed and certainly have consideration, especially because of a negative ratio. But by the way, the second pillar as such did not increase as it should have and it was partly inherited. So if a person starts using it, his heirs don't have the right to profit. If God doesn't let the security guard die until he uses it, then his heirs have the right to claim and receive all the funds paid. Unlike the third pillar, which I fear has not been brought to life, which is absolutely individualized, absolutely inherited, so it can be debated about a kind of savings, capitalised which unfortunately the state subsidizes, that is, but not enough for me, it has been accepted and, of course, that intensity that was from a strict pillar and two mandatory and one voluntary did not show it perhaps full application and all the results will, unfortunately, wait five to ten years. As for the way and the calculation itself, this supplement slowly as people use the second pillar more, it will stop increasing, and no contribution to any individualised capital savings will be 27% as far as the state is now to add to all those who retire from the first pillar. And there's going to be a big misunderstanding at first, because they didn't go to the third pillar, and they didn't increase the second of the 5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63285	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63286	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Curaj, I think that my colleague Shuker is one time today or when he said this is certainly not a subject to be politicized about. Because I mentioned it today and I had to say it on behalf of the club that the pensioners were robbed. What is certainly a grudge to all who were at the time leading politics, privatisation was not to be made at that time. But today to solve problems there is no place for politicisation because the facts are there, the figures say that we have a million and 232,000 and well now we're not going to change in numbers that changes pensioners and only a million and 450 thousand employees. We need 38 billion for pensions, and 15 billion are missing from the pension fund, so we need to get that out of the budget. 100 thousand pensioners have an average of 232 kuna pensions, these are serious problems. So if we look at the position, the opposition when the reforms are proposed, when something is proposed to penalize early departure, to extend the job internship, then always the opposition attacks the position and so on. This serious problem really needs to be taken seriously, the government of the Republic of Croatia is meeting with this sea, and here already, in a few years these people are going to have problems that are going to retire because the second pillar has not yet been able to capitalize enough. 5% is unlikely for the second pillar, and now that we increase to the second pillar, the payment will be missing in the first pillar, and these are serious problems. And we end up with a third of the population retired, watch out for a third of the population, and young people are leaving us. These are serious problems. The responsibility of course is for the government to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63287	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63288	Look, colleague Zhagar, this debate today clearly indicates that this topic should have been defined by all that was paid on behalf of the pensioners' debt return because this is only one segment. So the SDP government was then also Minister Vidovic brought some pension bonuses to cover that part. So you have those famous 6% plus 100 kunas that are built into the basics of increasing pensions every year and if that amount were calculated then you would see that it's over tens of billions of kuna. Do you really think 2008 to 10 billion kuna was just so easy to come by? But that's how you hear it, sometimes when you watch cowboy movies light on a gun, that's how we shoot here in the Parliament, and we talk hard words. But due to historical fact and historical truth because of '93. the years in those war years have been wronged by Croatian pensioners. The Constitutional Court has reached a verdict, however, it is very interesting that a government had the strength to pay for it, to repay the debt to the pensioners. I'm sorry that there are no colleagues in the assembly today, because probably his debate would be diametrically opposed to what is being said here in the Parliament today. This payment is not made without agreement with the pensioners, it is simply not fair or correct to speak today. It's easy to throw off today, but in 2007, 2008 find 10 billion kunas and be in debt in 6.7% of interest then after 10 years lamentation that the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is large, and among other things in that public debt is the return of the pensioner's debt, but it was our obligation to do so. And that's why when I said that this material is missing, it's missing because of this unfair and unfair relationship of ours and because of some petty political points we're willing to say that today this House is black, tomorrow white, etc. You understand, I'm just talking about it. Let's finally discuss the facts. You know exactly how much money is paid out of here. And if someone claims that... on the London Stock Exchange is a robbery then it's an honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63289	Thank you. Now we move on to the next club representative, which is. Excuse me, colleague Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63290	So, fellow Shuker, maybe I missed the debate, and I agree with you, it wasn't easy to find a model, and I think this was even an intelligent model, a good model of problem solving. I just stressed in the debate that this model did not end up correcting the injustice. So we can't say that the pensioners get everything they've got and their interest has been accounted for, to say it roughly, at 2 billion and 300 million, but I agree with you in agreement with the pensioners. And you're saying, of course, that it wasn't easy for the government to find those funds at that point, but we also have to admit that the pensioners weren't easily lost in the 1990s. And maybe there's a chance that there's a policy to publicly apologize to the pensioners for this injustice, to tell them you've given them the burden, thank you for that, we've compensated you as much as we can. This should be done independently by the government from which political spectrum. And with you, I agree the job was done in cooperation with the pensioners. After all, no solution is fair to the end, some are short sleeves, some are slightly longer, but people are satisfied even if they get that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63291	Thank you. Now the SDP Representatives' Club will come to order on behalf of which the respected representative Miranda Mrsic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63292	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. This law brings us to the end of one story in Croatia, but we open another story in the same way in Croatia, which is that we will once again create a group of pensioners who will not be in an equal position with the rest of the group of pensioners. In 1993, apparently, pensioners in those years until '98. It was those who didn't get adequate pensions that they were supposed to get. And it was admitted by the Constitutional Court and the government had to make decisions that it had to make. And here I don't think there's any need to fight what HDZ did now, what the SDP did because both the two and the third governments were doing what they were supposed to do, and that's to secure funds in the Pension Fund to pay off what the Constitutional Court ruled. And I don't think there's any need to get together, we can say cheap political points because they're not here. So every government in the way it could sell the shares, raise funds that the fund had enough resources to pay off what was a commitment to the Constitutional Court. And the fund ended its century, he played his part, but unfortunately I'm not sure that the current government would have the courage as the government had in 2008, so at the time when he decided to include a retirement supplement Yeah, 2004, sorry. [[Intruder: 2004.]] So what's happening now is that we're going to have pensioners who are going to be in a subordinate position to some other pensioners and we're creating two groups of pensioners, completely unnecessary because the government should have the courage to solve this problem rather than put it under the rug and wait for it to solve itself. Namely, it's a 27% pension allowance from the first pension column. We already have a problem with people who have had an internship with an increased duration who have the right to retire, who were born in '62. the years, which have a lower pension of 500 to 700 kuna for the same job, for the same job, for the same salary. Just because they don't account for 27% of the pension allowance to those who only get pensions from the first pension column. And it's not true that it's a small problem. Someone who has a pension of 3,500 kuna is extremely large and I am sorry that the ministry hesitates and waits to solve the problem. Whether it will be 27% of all what would be the most just, the simplest to spend or go with another model, but give it to the gentlemen, sort it out, don't put things under the carpet and don't solve it. It is a time when things are solved now, it will not be solved in 2019, 2020, etc. Especially since in 2019 we have the possibility that women who are 55 have the right to go to early retirement and they will have a smaller pension, between 500 and 700 kuna and those pensions are small anyway. The average will be 2,300 to 2,400 because they are workers in the textile and leather and shoe industry. Is that fair? It's not. It's being solved now, I don't know what we're waiting for, which is why we're waiting for something to happen, for someone to come and say now we're going to sort it out one way or another. I am particularly concerned about the statement by the Minister of Labour and the Pension System which made it clear that the percentage will be different for individual pensioners, for individual age groups because the pension from the first and second pension pillars cannot be higher than the pension from the first pension rate for the same salary for the same internship. So the point of the second pension system, there's Mr. Shucker, I hope he backs me up, is to bear the burden of the first pension system, and that in those funds that are in retirement societies, they're bigger to make our pensions bigger. The second pension pillar does not serve to settle pensions, however, Minister Pavic made it very clear that he believes the second pension column should serve as a pension settlement fund for the first pension pillar, which is entirely wrong towards the pension reform, which is entirely wrong with everything that the pension reform should be. Then we don't need to take those 5%, but we get back to the state, so let the state take care of our pensions, we know what our demographic situation is that the first pension column won't be able to take the pressure, given that we're doing less and less, that we're getting less and less. Therefore, it is a completely false concept decision. And I'm sorry if that's the HDZ's decision because it's an annulment of the reform they've begun. The HDZ government began in '98, '99. A year. The peace system must not suffer and must not make hasty decisions. The decisions that are made now are worth 10 or 15 years, and their effect will be seen in about 10 to 15 years, and so I think that in this House we should have a clear time and have a clear discussion of where we want our pension system to go because this is the way that Minister Pavić imagined, it goes towards shutting down the second pension column and taking the funds that are my assets, I set them out in my account. So, it's one form of nationalisation of funds and I don't think it should be an honor to anyone because if you say that the second pension column since you won't include all 27% of the pension allowance, part of the first pension column will be used to settle pensions, that's the form of nationalisation. So, you're taking my funds in my account to make your pension equal to the first pension stake. Against pension reform, against common sense, against everything else. So, and here I'm pleading that as soon as possible to solve the problem that is ahead of us, which is great, all those who were born in '62. the years in here if we don't include pension supplements of 27% that we gave to everyone in the first pension column will have less pensions than those in the first pension column. It's not fair to them, it's not fair to new pensioners and it's not fair to young people who are now entering the labour market, who will have a pension in 30 or 40 years, what is their future? Why would they single out pensions if their pensions were all the same? It's something we should all understand that are currently thinking and making statements about the pension system. Here at the Pension Fund we have shown that together we can do some things, that despite the political differences and differences that we can work together for the benefit of the pensioners because pensions are small, pensions are below the poverty line and with what we are doing now, and these people who already have problems because their pensions are less, will not be those who will vote for HDZ. Therefore, given that HDZ likes to grease its electoral body, I think it would be wise for the law to come to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, so that we can simply allow all those who are going to retire from the first and second pension pillars to have the right to 27% of the pension allowance. HDZ has skirts and scissors because they are in power at the moment and I think they should think about what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia think, and that it should think of those 20 or 30 engineers at the moment who are not defenders unfortunately so they cannot have benefits from the law of defence that is genreous to the defence population, but is not according to this second retirement population and they deserve to have adequate treatment as their colleagues who were born in '61. So they shouldn't have gone after the law force in the first and second retirement pillar. The SDP will support this bill, and I hope that we will see very soon the proposal for a law on a pension addendum from the first pension pillar for all those born in '62. in here who, by the power of law, have pensions from the first and second pension pillars. If this does not happen in due time or if the announcements of Minister Pavic are made that it will be graduated in a way that will then equalise pensions with another pension column, it is not a pension reform and it is not in the spirit of the pension reform that has been here for 20 years is in force in the Republic of Croatia and it is an annulment of pension reform. I hope that won't be the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63293	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63294	Thank you very much. Comrade Mrssic, you've gone a little wide and for the replica you'd need more than your individual debate. But I picked up the line for one thing, I'm not sure now if we have 3 or 4 pension bonuses because someone left today, and the other one went tomorrow and then they have a big pension difference, there's this 6% plus 100 kuna, and it's certainly burdening the pension fund in a certain way. But when we talk about this fund, and you know well that you used this fund to pay off Christmas cards, I think it was 2014, so it's a matter of political decision and it doesn't need to be fired. But what is true is that our pension system is also unfortunately such that governments, no matter what they may be in some time spaces, must react with certain supplements to correct certain pension injustices. However, when we talk about the level of pension in the Republic of Croatia, then we need to start from what the average salary was in Croatia, for example in 2000, we do not need to go further, and what is it today. It is 60 percent higher today, and you also know well that the payout arrangement to show what is really paying off, and it has lasted all these years and all the governments have worked on it, has led to an increase in the net pay that is being shown. And when you look at GDP growth and compare it to average wages, then you'll see one disproportionate. But the biggest tragedy today is that we have about 800,000 pensioners who have pensions below 3,000 kuna. A second pillar of retirement, a story that can be talked about in one way or another. I just remember what I experienced in 2009 when the economic crisis began, when I suggested that it be abolished, then certain stakeholders literally massacred me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63295	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63296	Dear Representative Shuker, therefore all governments have in some way touched the pension system, some systemically, some financial and this imbalance continues and we are now creating a new imbalance. So we haven't solved this previously on old pensioners and new pensioners, and that's where we see the differences that need to be resolved and we're creating new imbalances for pensioners who are just about to retire, which is why we need to approach it systematically and then with one common consensus and opposition and positions that the pension system is stable and that we don't constantly introduce any new instruments or introduce some new additions, some new payments, etc. Because that, as you can see, will lead to a problem then in the future. At this point when you introduce something now, you'll see it in about 10 years. But quite certainly that the first and second pension pillar, regardless of the criticisms that arise from certain parties, is basically the only chance that the pension system will be maintained, given that we will have fewer and fewer people who will work and pay in the first pension column, and that we will have a relatively large number of pensioners. And that's what a fact no one can ignore. We can now abolish the second pension pillar, transfer all funds to the first one, improve the budget of the Republic of Croatia's budget will be better but what about those young people who are now going to the labour market? What pension are they going to have in 20 and 30 years? Because for them, there will be no one to pay, given that there will be fewer and fewer who pay in the first pension column.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63297	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63298	Thank you, Vice President. Yeah, this story around the second pillar, I don't think any decommissioning or nationalization would be the answer. You yourself have answered that question. It's also about the supplement. You've had two problems now. One is that it's not fair that a man who does the same job for the same salary and in '62. It's smaller than the one in '61. It's also not fair to have a bigger one. So if you were to talk about that 27% supplement, then he should be focused on the first pension column, which means 27% on 15%, and he would still have de facto smaller, one part smaller, not one, now we don't know what kind of but smaller pension than the one that went into the first degree. Why? Because no retirement home, the insurance company doesn't make 27% on what 5% we pay Have 5.6% on average. So there would already be a difference but it would be fair. We forced these people. There's that part they chose. People also need to know that they can choose their own insurance company for the second pillar, someone has bigger offerings, someone has less. People are more or less unaware of it. Security is also there legally it has been made that all these stakes are secured and that is certainly what citizens need to know that it is not any risky investment in terms of some savings or I do not know voluntary insurance, whatever. But what matters is that when it does, it's not the problem that came up today, we knew that five years ago it would be seven. The moment we stopped the second pillar increase to 10% as planned and then to 15. When it gave up immediately, it was known that those who were forced to go would have potentially less, especially when this supplement was introduced. So it's a problem that needs to be addressed and found a medium solution that will also be valorized. Because what these have in the second pillar is that in the event of death before use they have an inheritance, which they don't have first and that's a big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63299	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63300	Thank you very much. What's the problem is our financial literacy. Which one of us here in the Parliament is looking at those fund reports that we're getting, which one of us is even interested in whether maybe some other fund has a better contribution so that I can transfer my account there. So the funds from one account to another. Which one of us knows when it can be done. So, one financial literacy in Croatia is still in the bandages and it will take a long time for people to realize that it is a savings that is theirs and that it is their property and that they, therefore, need to look out for themselves and watch where these funds are being planned. When we talk about a retirement allowance, then it's a pension from the first, second pillar, it's 27% just on the first pillar. So, not the second column. The second pillar is independent. Depending on the contribution, and this is the difference that should contribute to making pensions from the first and second pillars larger than those of the first pillar. Because otherwise, there's no sense in pension reform. Then it doesn't matter if you and the second pillar are leveling the first pillar. So you're sort of relieving the first pillar with the second pillar. So, then pension reform has nothing to do with it, we shouldn't have gone into it. The point is, therefore, that the funds derived from the first pension rate are increased by 27%, and the second pension column allows us to make that a larger pension. I absolutely don't accept that retirement from the first and second pillars can and should be like retirement from the first pillar. So, this equation is a relic of the past and I don't think you should live in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63301	Thank you. I see the violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Lovrinović. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63302	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I don't know what point of the Rules of Procedure I'd like to call because the previous speaker offends common sense. Well, since it wasn't arranged by the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to pardon, there's been a change of rules of procedure, because this really can't be listened to. [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Lovrinović can't talk like that!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63303	We can't talk like that. You've now injured the Rules of Procedure and you're aware of it. I'm asking you nicely not to do that. Everyone here has the freedom to speak, if they don't insult anyone else, whatever they want smart, less smart, completely unwise or anything. Therefore, by your judgment or by someone else's court but we cannot abuse the Rules of Procedure in this way. I'm asking you not to repeat that. The Republic also has a respected representative, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63304	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mrssic, you have been correct in your presentation, but you repeat what Mr. Sagar has told you before about a large number of pensioners who have little pensions. Although you didn't say the amount of 220 kuna. He's a friend of Sagar's, but you've also repeated that lie. So, because the public should be told the truth is that it was a large number of users of these pensions 91250 was then. But let's say 92000 pensioners who have 226 kuna pensions. But it is about Croatian citizens who spent their working life abroad, so people who spent 30 years or 40 years abroad, and maybe only two or three years working in the Republic of Croatia, or in the former state, and therefore have that amount of 226 kuna. So it is recorded as such through the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and that is correct. Now someone, let's say, in the case of my parents or some others here in Parliament who have 1,500 or 1600 euros in pension and 220 kuna in Croatian pension, is that Croatian poverty? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63305	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63306	Dear Representative Babic, I did not talk about pensions of 200 kuna, and there is something that the coalition government has done because there are among these pensioners and those pensioners who are receiving pensions from EU countries where they worked, so this part for the short internship they were in Croatia. I have referred to the pensions paid in Croatia in general that they are too small, so the average pension that is paid is when we withdraw pensions, we call foreign pensions, these statistics finally domesticated that we know what we're talking about, these pensions are small. So they're about 40% of the average wage, and that's a little bit, we know that we need to work on that too, so at this point in time when the economy is good, when our economy is growing, we need to solve that pensioner problem too. Of course it can't be solved all of a sudden because it requires huge resources but some things can be resolved. From the fact that if we let the defenders work on pension regardless of what the de facto are in early retirement, we must also allow the pensioners of others. When we talk about the pensions of mates, I think I'm sorry the government hasn't come up with a proposal with amendments to the Pension Insurance Act where we're going to make it possible when one of the partners dies that then the others inherit a certain percentage of his pension with their pension because the costs are the same, so the costs won't be reduced. Therefore, these are some things that can help at this point but generally need to work on it pensions are bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63307	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Babic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63308	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In order not to spread the story, we, in our first reading about this law, may have had one of the best discussions on both the board and here in the Croatian Parliament of Mr. Silava Hrelje, who was actually talking about the history of this pension fund and were actually talking about those circumstances that happened at the time when we were talking about '93, and '98. year, in fact, we must not interfere with the situation that was then in the Republic of Croatia but also lower average salaries until the time when the Constitutional Court decided and when a pension fund was established to deprive nearly half a million Croatian pensioners. Therefore, in relation to the first reading of the law, there has been no change in any of the final draft laws in this final draft law, as the Proposer states. We were then saying that this should have gone into an emergency procedure, but the promoter says that this was not possible because of those conditions that are limited only to cases where this is, for particularly justified reasons, necessary. You should actually just say maybe one more thing, and that's that HZMO takes over the assets, rights and liabilities of the fund. One more thing, therefore, that unused financial asset, I think the secretary of state said, is that it is transferred to the account of the Republic of Croatia's budget as the funds of deposits from which HZMO will pay the costs for the conduct of the proceedings and the conduct of the business undertaken. HDZ accepts this final proposal of this law and of course we are actually glad that this story ended happily for the pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63309	Thank you very much. Now we're going to an individual debate, the first respected representative of Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here today it was explained how this pension fund was created as a compensation to the pensioners because they were simply being used here by the word, robbed, and that decision was made by the government's '93 regulation. The year of the war. I repeat once again, pensioners are a large segment of Croatian society, it is the third lifetime when people can no longer work, they are very dependent on their families and, of course, the incomes that belong to them. So the question is, what was the state's relationship to the pensioners? He used to work like this, so you're suing us to pay you yours eventually. The charges were filed here, the Constitutional Court reached a verdict, they were late for those payments, and now they say it's good that it's paid. So can pensioners or pensioners be satisfied with what is said to them, and be happy to receive anything? No pensioners got nothing, they needed to take what was theirs and what they were paying for during their active and honest work. Here today, some say that ten billion kuna states had to "find" or be in debt to "save" pensioners. So I repeat exactly that, that they should not have been given anything, but they had previously paid into a pension system money that was not paid to them. Now what's this all about? It is not a fact that the HDZ and SDP governments were able to regularly pay and coordinate pensions with the growth of the average wage in Croatia. Now of course you know that as a scientist, I do not present these political statements or political statements. And I'm going to show you now that you shouldn't be in charge at all. It's gonna be shocking for some of us here, but that's how it's gonna be. Well, here you are, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, from 2008 to 2017, as you know, there was a period of historically lowest interest rates in the world, but we are limited to the EU. This is the period from 2008 to today, the interest rates that the central banks have reduced to almost 0%, 0.25% and banks have granted loans of 0.5%, 1% based on such low interest rates, etc. How was the Croatian State in charge? So I'm not talking about external debt, I'm talking about a rabbit's, internal debt that can be controlled and not applied to, so on. foreign risk premium. Please, Vice President, let the few who talk either stop or come out because they're really in the way. Here, well, thanks for your intervention. [[Intruder Reiner: Here they are silenced by themselves.]] So everyone cut interest on government debt except Croatia. Now the question is why. In my view, therefore, the most harsh calculation of the burden of State budget expenditure intended for interest on kuna public debt since 2008 to date has been paid to about 40 billion kunas unnecessarily by banks on loans, by investors in government bonds. I repeat about 40 billion. Well, now I'm asking you what you would imagine anything could be done with the savings of about 40 billion kuna over the past 10 years. But what we have, on the other hand, was shown by heroic deeds if someone went outside, owed a billion dollars, a billion euros, so that the pensioners could get the pensions they deserved. So here I was in a very short way, in a brief analysis, showing that the system could have been such and so well-financed that there should have been no congestion. But respected pensioners, you who are now monitoring this transmission but this has not been done, you know why? So because it can't be denied to the interest banks that they imposed on foreign investors or domestics who bought bonds and asked for 5.6% of the state and 5.6% of the interest on such expensive loans and bonds, you had to pay and you paid along with all of us. This is the state policy that ruined both the Croatian economy and you pensioners. So let's stop lying, talk to each other openly and face arguments and data that are. And we're also listening, I can't avoid, even though it's not a topic, today's debate. You see how he throws one side at the other that he needs to be even more favored. Retirement pillar and even increase payment in pension column. Dear pensioners and now you who are working and earning for your future pensions, only Croatia still has II. The pension pillar in the EU, across Europe, is the invention of the World Bank, which everyone has rejected and it represents a deception or to be more plastic and much more understandable, it is an ordinary fraud. There's no pension stake or such fund manager who can make as much money as we've lost on public debt-high interest, it doesn't exist. So you who created II. The pension column and some of you sitting here, you're going to have to end up laying accounts on the billions of powers that have been ruined here. So I repeat, pensioners get nothing, they earn it by their honest work. The previous governments, driven by the interests of financial capital and not the interests of the people, have eventually destabilised the pension system and wonders, these same people, and even today here in the Parliament of crocodile tears lye or conveyed their astonishment to the pensioners, the concern that the pension system is destabilised. You gentlemen have destabilized that pension system. Which is II. Retirement pole to make me even more plastic? It's an idea that comes down to the idea that pensioners should be taken to the casino to bet on this or that but their money but without their consent. And in the end, I'm going to take this opportunity to say, today no one here tells you pensioners how much your money has been lost right now from II. pension column on shares of fallen or immersed shares of companies from the Agrokor concert. So, you could say that I didn't focus on the point of exposure that was today, I caught her, it's okay, and this fund did something that he had to do, he shouldn't actually exist. And I'm going to say one last final thought, Croatia is the only country in Europe that has started to run a stabilising, economic policy since '93. A year. No country has done so under war conditions, but then governments have agreed to it and they think it's a good invention and we're paying everyone today and among them especially the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63311	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63312	Mr. President, I'm giving up the replica, because this is something you can't replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63313	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, an important state secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Majda Buric, will say something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63314	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner. I would also like to thank all the representatives and MPs who participated in the debate. One of the MPs said, by this law, one question closes, and the other one opens. First of all, I'd really stick to the subject, which is a retirement fund. And the currents related to the issue that has been raised and discussed throughout this whole agenda point, I would just like to mention the following, therefore, pensions, pension reform, etc. Minister Pavic, Minister of Labour and Pension System, has never communicated or communicated or advocated against two pension pillars, as we are here today to hear. On the contrary, Minister Pavic always communicates, just developing two pension pillars, where there are currently less than 90 billion kuna. In addition, what I would like to stress on this occasion is that in the national reform programme itself, it is nice to say that pension reform is planned in 2 quarters 2018. In any case, it should and must be comprehensive, complete, adequate, respecting the needs, not only of the current pensioners, but of all those future pensioners, and what we do not want and what we would like to avoid at all costs is precisely, making partial decisions and events, i.e. leading to some new inequalities. That is why, the whole problem, should be very, very, very carefully analysed and very well analysed and here, once again announced about the next 2018 second quarter, 2018 pension reform. In any case, I want to once again refer to integrity, i.e. complete solutions, solutions, which should be comprehensive and above all adequate. And I thank again all the MPs and MPs who participated in the debate and who support this final bill, related to the termination of the pension fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63315	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63316	Thank you. Dear Madam Secretary of State, here's the first thing I want you to do, is never run any retirement fund that needs to be closed again, because of something that was done before, at the expense of the pensioners, as was the case now. You just said it, it opens up and closes the pension system issues. This does not close, because the pension system is continuous in problems and that is, it is in fact strongly destabilised and the pensioners have the right to such an opinion, i.e. that they are very concerned. Some people here feel that my solutions are inapplicable and that they cannot be applied. Gentlemen, let me tell you something, something cannot be done for two reasons. The first is that someone won't let you do it, and you know it. And the other is that you don't know. So if someone doesn't know, then they can't do it. And if he knows, and he wants to do it, then you have to tell him who stopped you, that you couldn't have done it. Don't spread any further delusions and I'll tell a lie. I'm having a hard time saying this word, about the second peace pillar. Do not lead people astray, for these are very serious questions. Neither is the second pension pillar a solution, nor is it a savings. If it's savings, offer it to the bank, as collateral for the loan. So you'll see what they tell you there. But this is not, as you said, Madam Secretary of State, today is not the topic, but it cannot talk about this because the pensioners are the most endangered group of Croatian societies. I just want to warn you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63317	The esteemed secretary of state, Mrs Majda Buric, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63318	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of Lovirnović. Here, first of all, I'd just like to make it right, the part that you're wrong to interpret me. So, I have called with you to one Mr. MP, who said in the debate that this law closes one topic, and loads one another, that is, this current one that is today, more or less debated and conducted. So, I just wanted to make it clear that it's quite clear to me and that I was speaking in line with the debate we're having this morning. And I agree that he's suffering, we'll all agree, that the pensioners, the social group that we all care about, and that's exactly why we're considering the solution that we're going to bring to the second quarter of 2018. They must be adequate, complete and very good thinking, for the benefit of not only the present pensioners, but all those future ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63319	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63320	Thank you very much. This law only confirms that someone had the courage and the strength to solve an injustice. And it has to be admitted no matter what, who someone's talking to. Because many of the parties sitting in the Assembly today participated in the process. The other thing, it's very interesting, that when we talk about some topics, then events should be criticised when... and solutions should be proposed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But today we're talking about some things and just... And I'd rather not comment on some things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just one thing, in two months. In 2009, when the economic and financial crisis has brought down all the economies of the world, then I have accepted myself, gathered a little courage, so to speak, to say that two pillars of pension and 40 billion, aid, public finances of the Republic of Croatia should be abolished, I didn't notice any wind in my back. From no one, not from the academic community, not from anyone, and then it could be done, and then it would help the Republic of Croatia, because saying today that it can be owed one way or another is funny if you're issuing bonds on the New York Stock Exchange and someone's saying that on the world capital market that you could maneuver with interest, I think it just shows more to those who say it. It's the same story that today some finance minister says he could be in debt at 1%. Because if it was 6% then here, the financial market is that dictates who can and at the moment when we realize that new goods are like any other and that they have all the price, at that point it'll be easier for us but it's best to talk on the side like this, and maybe in those supervisory board courses, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63321	Thank you. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote when you get the terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63322	Final draft law on the termination of the Pension Fund Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 191, the proponent of the acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law on the termination of the Retirement Fund Act, please vote. I find that most votes, 119 votes for and 5 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the termination of the Pension Fund Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63323	Now we'll finally get to what we need to talk about. We have two laws ahead of us, since they are very overlapping I suggest we unite the debate. So these are: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 242; Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act, the emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 238. ... Here you go, buddy Bull. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that since you included this item of the agenda and one and the other and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Act with this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act, it means with the Final Proposal of the Law that they go separately. Because I think that this and one and the other law, in particular this Law on Croatian Waters, is so significant and that there is a lot of diversity, that it is not as compatible as it looks at first sight. So here it is on behalf of the MOST Club, but when you did not accept the proposal to postpone this very important debate to discuss the laws individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63325	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63326	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, we oppose the fact that this debate is united for reasons because the Water Act is about first reading and the Funding Act on second reading. So you're familiar with the procedure for the second reading to give amendments and cannot be given in the first reading. So technically these two laws can't be united because it's a different way of handling both discussions. So please keep these two debates separate so that there is no confusion over the submission of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63327	Thank you very much. I have to answer, so this argument that you have now made doesn't stand, of course, because it can be united because it can be amended to this first law and the second law goes according to an emergency procedure. However, since you have expressed your desire to have individual discussions, we will discuss it individually, in no case will we force ourselves to, if anyone is opposed to them being united. Then we'll move on to the first of those, those two laws. So, I stress the first reading again, so it's nothing overnight, nothing urgent, nothing rash, etc.. - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Water Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 242; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Mario Šiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act is foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the acquisition and implementation of the EU acquis for 2017 but also by the annual plan of normative activities for 2017. In addition to representatives of the professional institution and representatives of the relevant bodies, the process of preparing this draft bill was attended by representatives of the relevant bodies, meaning relevant ministries, Croatian waters, associations of cities, municipalities and community of counties, Croatian Employers' Association, Croatian Water Group and sewers and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. A month-long consultation with the interested public has been carried out, and numerous sectoral meetings have been organised to resolve the comments received. I'm going to list the basic issues that are governed by this law. Further harmonisation has been carried out with relevant EU water directives, namely the Water Framework Directive, the Directive on the treatment of municipal waste water and the Directive on the assessment and management of flood risks, and all of them in line with the commitments made by the relevant EU pilots as follows. With regard to the subject matter of arrangement, the law now refers to all water without exception, and to groundwater, surface waters including coastal waters, territorial sea, mineral and geothermal waters, all in terms of achieving the water protection objectives. Therefore, the use of coastal, mineral and geothermal waters remains in special laws in the field of maritime, energy and mining and their protection is prescribed by this law. The definition of water activities has also been introduced and this has been addressed, accumulated, stored, cleaned and distributed of surface or underground waters, as well as the collection, treatment of wastewater discharges, as was the EU pilot's request. The effects of the definition are visible in the amendments to the law on the financing of the water economy. The other definitions have been amended, supplemented or deleted in part in order to comply with EU pilot requirements to partially improve. The process of determining the prevailing public interest in procedures for which a significant negative impact on the environment is found in the environmental impact assessment process and is therefore assessed as unacceptable. The proposal for a decision on the predominant interest or no such interest shall be referred by the Ministry to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which makes a final decision similar to that so far has been arranged for the protection of nature through the Nature Protection Act. Furthermore, provisions on previous flood risk assessments, hazard maps and flood risk maps and flood risk management plans have been added, as was also the EU pilot's request. New provisions on the review and harmonisation of water legal licences have also been laid down. their changes or suspensions, as well as other acts such as environmental authorisation or concession conditions. These acts are in line with the water management plan, thus meeting the requirement, another request from the European Commission from a bilateral meeting held in July 2014. In addition, a special legal regime is arranged for the construction of water structures for the production of electricity that are built on water good and public water good or extended public water good. The purchase of land particles on which the investor plans to build such buildings, the legal status of the land, and the acquisition of the right to build and manage public water goods is regulated. The transitional provisions of this Act allow the establishment of the right to build built hydropower plants for the benefit of the Croatian power plant that built them on public water wells and the right to manage accumulations, feed and drain canals in favour of the holder of the right of construction but with the retention of ownership of the Republic of Croatia over these buildings. A way to enter land books is also arranged. Finally, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 22 September 2017, which is tasked by the central authorities of the State administration to comply with their specific concession law within 6 months of the date of adoption of that conclusion, the harmonisation of Chapter 9 of the concession law has been carried out. This law goes into regular adoption procedure in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63329	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63330	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Secretary of State, you yourself said that the buildings in HEP and the surface to be covered by this law, means the tributaries, lakes, areas, that this law will essentially improve that plan, which is a plan to privatise itself anyway, and that private investments such as the reversible Water Centre of Vrdovo, which is entirely on private state land, will be allowed to be led as the greatest potential and resources instead of protecting it rather than as the source of Cetina given for 5,000 kuna or what we will allow someone to manage our strategic potentials, that is water, this law will essentially open you to the privatisation of HEP and that Christmas MP prime minister to privatise HEP 25%, in fact this is just a law that confirms it. This law should protect water as the greatest potential and not privatise it exclusively through buildings owned by HEP, hydrothermia that HEP will get the opportunity to clean up these jobs and to go to that 25+1 sale in accordance with what he predicted and pushed all along the HNS. So why did you rewrite what the HNS is imposing on you? So here's the strategic resource, they need to be protected by law, that's public good. Not well to privatise and enable now the husband of Minister Buric to manage Croatian waters for 99 years, to enable HEP to enable him to be a project that should be a HEP-reversible hydrocentral project. So we're jeopardizing with this law of water, we're not protecting the water as a strategic resource here, and I think you're favouring this law with private interests to the harm of public good, which is water and energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63331	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63332	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary of state with his associates. On behalf of the HSS Club, we are also dissatisfied that this item of the agenda is today included in the agenda, it is announced for tomorrow for debate, and it is put here today to discuss it by some urgent procedure although there is no reason for urgency because the Water Act on our most important resource deserves a broad debate. And it is good to go to regular procedures, to have both first and second readings, and that through this law, complete water management will be arranged for both ground and underground and thermal, and that this takes care of water protection in one place and that here is the first time through compliance with European directives to plan risk management and flood management plans because we know in recent years how many problems we have had with floods and that the main hydrotechnical facilities that have been used for flood protection have not been serviced qualityly for years, that there has also been the shooting of embankments and huge damages. And I would also like to warn you of those critical points that have been observed in these floods, that they have not been remedied and that it has just now begun with the work of resuscitating existing dikes, so I think we need to seriously discuss these critical points under emergency recovery so that there is no flood again, because here is today the prepared state of the flood defense for the area below around Slavonski Brod. So we must seriously discuss this and surely we are concerned because it is announced in several media that this amendment to the law is going to be due to the privatisation of HEP where HEP will be returned to water buildings and the accumulation and channels will remain state. In this way, we want to increase the value of HEP which on the one hand is good, but from HSS we are opposed to the privatisation of HEP especially in this way and therefore we are looking for an answer whether you really want to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63333	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63334	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, it's a good thing you said that in your opening statement in fact in the creation of a new law, but I'm surprised at the fact, it's interesting that it comes from the bench of opposition deputies. Forgetting that, for example, in a four-year term when they were in power, almost every law was passed in an emergency procedure, almost every one. So, here we should praise the fact that we get the draft laws in time, and the schedule itself, the fact is also what the secretary of state said, that the associations of municipalities and cities, that the water lines and sewers, that the sectoral meetings were, that it was the inter-resorial cooperation of the ministries themselves, that the professional and scientific public participated in the fact that this law had actually passed and the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture and had come to the first reading and to the Croatian Assembly, and it was in fact protecting both underground waters, mineral water, geothermal water and in fact, this law regulates their protection. In this first reading we can discuss this, until the second reading, we will hear all the remarks that parliamentary deputies can and should make in this debate and the ministry will accept certain things accordingly, whether or not, that is on them, but say that we are raping a certain procedure and that we are putting on such an important law and all the laws are important, in the procedure so quickly after the urgent procedure and you are vice president, the introduction said it was about the first reading of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63335	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by the Honorable Secretary of State, Mario Shiljeg, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I would first of all like to thank you for your expressed interest in discussing this draft draft amending and supplementing the Water Act, and I would like to refer to the findings of the distinguished representative Mira Bulj that these amendments and additions to the Water Act are in some way appropriate to the process of privatisation of HEP. In front of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, they can responsibly argue that there is no speech on favouring the privatisation process that the HEP, like any other hydroenergy company or company, and that the interests of the Republic of Croatia are quite further established and protected against these changes and additions. In addition, the fact that the bill itself is fully in line with the state's attorney's office of the Republic of Croatia, whose role is to protect Croatian national interests. What is important is to point out that this bill finally regulates property legal relations between Croatia's state and the hydro-energy companies, both those existing and those that could appear on our market in the future. The only benefit in this case that HEP will have and will finally have an orderly balance of its assets. Namely, let me just have two sentences, let me say, a historical sequence of adoptions and conditions prior to adoption, i.e., before proposing these amendments and supplementing the law, the Water Act. So, first of all, he was in 2009. HEP signed up for all the property. And on the property of all parts of the hydro-energy facility, both those that were inside the water supply, the public water supply, and those that were beyond that. Afterwards we came to the situation that the state of Croatia had registered, simply registered all these properties and we had 2 situations that were incompatible with each other. I must point out that no other solution, such as we had, is good, and this stems from the fact that it was necessary to distinguish, that right, right in the specific case of HEP outside the public water supply, and the countries of Croatia within the public water supply. This situation is fully resolved by these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63337	Thank you. We will now open the debate and, as we have announced, the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the Honored Representative Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63338	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, respected representatives of the ministry. So, I'm already at the stop I was looking for before the launch, i.e. the opening of the debate on this point, expressed disagreement, i.e. the protest on the procedure. You say the procedure wasn't raped, it wasn't respected entirely, all the participants passed their stage of debate. So I have no doubt that the procedure at the government passed by the rules and that everyone had the opportunity to participate in this debate. However, we can't ask whether it's okay to do what we've done here now, to make such an important law that came to the agenda this morning, was announced for tomorrow, for the debate still arrives right now. Croatia has, I already mentioned it at the stop, Croatia is very rich in water. I think the total water renewable resources of the Republic of Croatia are 23,000 cubic metres per year, per man. So we are also at the very top of the European and the world as regards the renewables of this resource, a resource that is too important, which is other than sometimes becoming goods in trade, however, right, therefore, it is a general good that must be guaranteed to all. So, to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is quite developed, we, I think last fall, celebrated the 140th anniversary of the organised water economy. And these are rare countries that have an opportunity, which have such a history, therefore, a tradition of organised water resource management. And therefore, it is important to allow the sector, therefore, which deals with the water economy, not only utility services, so there is the academic community, there is also an increasingly important system of control, so quality monitoring that we are also obliged to. All of this develops together in a pretty good atmosphere in the Republic of Croatia, and then I really don't see why you do it like this. Because you just open unnecessary questions. Because of course I don't doubt good intentions. And I want to settle the issue of ownership of HEP on the facilities that it actually built and put it in order. I do not want to immediately doubt that the next important and easier step will be to privatise HEP which I do not think should be implemented, that another solution should be found. Here, therefore, I really think it's a shame that this communication is actually missing by this act and that we haven't had the opportunity to contribute more to this debate. Of course there will be opportunities in 2 readings. There will be opportunities in the second reading. I sincerely hope she realizes that this procedure is not right this morning. And that it should be avoided in the Croatian Parliament, in order to contribute to the quality of the democratic debate. Especially since this thing is quite a professional character. We must all be in the best interests of this sector. Of course, there are concerns about privatization and acquisition of important rights in a strange way, which we have had the opportunity to see and learn in this history from Croatian independence, so the people are cautious and it is okay and it is better to do so, so before we have to allow a quality debate, to make it possible for MPs to get the best of this preparation and the promoter to have the opportunity to discuss all the details in quality, explain it to the public, and I think that this is the way in which Croatia can move better forward. And this is how often we stay in the sphere of political out-of-work, beyond the very measure of the things that are being discussed here. Here I would end up in the hope that, after all, this portfolio, or this law itself, will work very well, and there will be opportunities to discuss it at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63339	Thank you very much. He is the first respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I expected from you as former Minister of Energy that you would say something about the metrics, which is why this law is good or bad, and you have spent all your time not long focusing on whether the procedure of this law is good or not, how much time has been left to the MPs. There is really no need to answer that, but because of the Croatian public, I owe it to the public. So the law is in regular procedure, we're discussing it in our first reading today, and in 20 days, a month, two of us are going to discuss the final bill. This law is four months, watch out for four months is public, he passed the procedure with an interested public who was in August and September, was on the pages of the resolution ministry, came to the Parliament four days ago and I say in the first reading. Therefore, there was plenty of time to prepare every MP for this if he had the will and, in particular, the representative who was a minister such as yourself should not be a big problem. And at the same time here we hear from fellow Bulls from the Bridge again the same story about Te on Perachi. I took a look at it. You were a minister for a while. So when the Energy Sector Business Monitoring Centre proposed that TE Peru go and be included in strategic projects, the ministry's resolutions were evident. The departments run by the Bridge, so you, your colleague Ante Šprlje, gave a positive opinion about this thermal power plant along the fence clearly to make a strategic assessment for it. Today, Most is not in those positions, against the project was one of the ministers from the Most Ministers of Agriculture against the project and against the project were HDZ ministers, for example, Minister of Finance Halo Maric was against Peru. So while we're talking, let's at least be correct for the rest of our lives when we attack each other and be honest in that statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63341	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63342	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bacic, thank you very much for your replica. I hope you will agree, however, that the water law is too important and that you should not do such jumps in the procedure. As far as this opinion is concerned, it was an opinion on the state of the file, and I certainly don't think it's correct for me to impute the agreement of the project then. So I am for the Republic of Croatia to manage its most important resources, where strategies will be adopted, where this strategy will be in line with time and in line with the interests of society. So we have a lot of examples, don't let me show you now that it wasn't always in this Croatian recent history and that it can be better. Therefore, if we want to improve Croatia, we can be allies here but we must be without the figure in our pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63343	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63344	Thank you very much. A colleague, Dobrovic, mentioned earlier, and a colleague named Bacic, said that this law was actually in three, four days that he was being tribalded, and he was scheduled to study on Friday, excuse me for Thursday, today he came only to see how much material it was. I tried to see, however historically looking at the statement by Minister Vrdoljak who said that the government of Zoran Milanovic now has the HNS of the HDZ coalition partner that an idea of 25% of HEP stock sales has come up... then it was established so this was an obstacle, this was one of the obstacles that we are now passing by this law. In essence, this obstacle when we said this, we removed the obstacle where HEP can go to the market and basically achieves a Christmas letter from Andrej Plenkovic last year on the sale of HEP 25%, and this privatisation would probably end up like INA, such as telecommunications. Therefore, when we talk about the sale of HEP, when we talk about this water law, he is connected, and that will be confirmed by the secretary of Shiljeg, he is simply aware that someone threw his paw at this, he is aware that in the programme there was a HNS that he presented it to Vrdoljak in 2014, even the government in 2009 or 2011. Jadranka Kosor declared it strategically important for the state, and this is being arranged in essence to do what Ivan Vrdoljak said in 2014, and Andrej Plenkovic is now a year when he said he was going to sell HEP 25%. As a matter of fact, this removes the only obstacle, the secretary of Shiljeg knows very well that the clean relations are for sale through... shares of HEP. Therefore, this is a very dangerous law where it is possible to sell strategic potentials, which is electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63345	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63346	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bully, this law clearly puts the property card of HEP into order. So we know there's an idea that just by selling HEP, there's been an announced purchase of MOL's shares from the INA. Personally, I don't want to believe that this is the case, but de facto the property card has been adjusted, reinforced with a series of assets that will be in a long-term concession is certainly part of some kind of asset that contributes to the total value of what is sold. I'm afraid that perhaps even the reason for this urgency may be, even though the regulation of the law is in accordance with the eu pilots who came put in the first place for reasons. But we'll see how things go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63347	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63348	Thank you very much. Comrade Dobrović, here I have failed to understand from your presentation what you're trying to say and that I'm getting the impression that you're actually for this law, that everything is fine. You have not found anything in the 110s that is proposed through changes and additions that doesn't suit you because you would probably say it, and you haven't said anything other than interpreting the procedure and you are against or I guess what goes in two readings, if I understand that correctly. Because otherwise, in the name of the club when it's spoken, it's about the measure of things that this law adopts in relation to what we have. I don't think you mind, let's just say that someone private wants to invest in energy plants, if they want to own private land, etc. do so in favour of the Republic of Croatia which will be entered into. Is that a problem with the Bridge? You have to say that if it bothers you and we'll fix it or we won't fix it, but you don't listen to what you're told. Here's what we're trying to do is solve the issue of HEP's problem to finally register everything they have from their water-good ownership to solve it through balance sheets and through all other forms, to make it work so that we know how much it's worth. But otherwise, here every law is governed by this law. Let's talk thematically about something, introduce everything else that has nothing to do with the law into that story, and then make an impression on someone. Let's talk about articles, very clearly talk about everything, about every concept that's listed here in hundreds of terms, so let's just say it's not right to write something else. No, now we've caught HEP and this law goes in favor of HEP and you say it's wrong. So tell me this law doesn't go to good use in HEP, here's the excuse, but let's not mix up any stories of politics etc. in a professional law that you yourself need... There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63349	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63350	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric. Please don't be hypocritical because you know exactly what direction it is and what reason my presentation on behalf of the Most was going on, and we will certainly contribute in further procedure we weren't fixing this law. The arrangement of the HEP property card was good and it had to be done long ago, but I only drew attention to the fact that certain critical groups in the public who well existed, this is the quality of a democratic society, I can indeed ask if it was actually the editing of this issue the main motive, since this would go in the privatisation path of solving a number of problems of the functioning of the state. That's what this is about. As for the scale and quality and contributions at certain points, there will be no time for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63351	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA has no colleagues Branimir Bunjca losing his right to debate. Next is the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Davor Lončar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63352	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The basic issues to be covered by this Act amending and supplementing the Water Act have been further brought into line with relevant EU water directives, the framework and the Water Directive, the Directive on the treatment of municipal waste water and the Directive on the assessment and management of flood risks in line with EU commitments. The following issues shall be identified from that assessment of the situation or need for additional compliance with the Directives set out in the EU pilot referred to therein. The provisions on the validity of this law in relation to the subject matter shall be extended so that this law applies to all waters without exception, and to groundwater, surface waters including coastal waters, territorial seas, mineral and geothermal waters with regard to the water protection objectives set. The law in the field of maritime, mining, energy will continue to regulate the use of coastal mineral and geothermal waters for certain purposes, and horizontal harmonisation will be implemented in a way that... specific laws will be referred to the application of this law as regards the requirement to meet the water protection objectives when water is used under these laws. In this way, the requirements of the European Commission will be fully met, i.e. ensure that the level of protection applies to all water bodies. In addition to the existing term water services, a new expression of water activity is introduced which includes, in addition to water services, public water supply and public disposal activities, the following activities, captures, accumulation, storage, treatment and distribution of surface and groundwater, collection and treatment of waste water which are then released into water. The effects are visible in the amendments to the Water Economy Financing Act while the remaining amendments and amendments are complemented or deleted are partly called for compliance with the EU's request and partly for the improvement of this law. Furthermore, this law enables the establishment of the right to build, i.e. the right to manage certain parts of hydroenergy facilities for the production of electricity built on public water good in favour of Croatia's electricity industry. The ownership of the Republic of Croatia over built accumulations, water and drain canals and tunnels will be maintained in order to ensure continuity of the water flow, and Croatia's electricity industry will continue to gain the right to build on other parts of existing hydropower facilities built on public water goods in 99 years without compensation. While in the accumulations, inland waterways and land canals acquire legal right to manage them. The procedure for determining public interest in procedures for which environmental impact assessment is carried out to determine the importance of environmental impact is considered unacceptable. The proposal for a decision on the dominant interest and the absence of that interest shall be referred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which makes the final decision. Provisions on previous flood risk assessments, hazard maps, flood risk maps and flood risk management plans have been added, as was also the request of the European Union pilot. New provisions on the review and harmonisation of water legal permits, the sudden abolition of other acts, the environmental authorisation of concession conditions and similar to the water management plan have been laid down, thus meeting the European Commission's request. In this way Croatian electricity industry d.d. will continue to manage hydro-energy facilities uninterrupted, while a watery and good share of Croatian water buildings that are necessary for insurance... remain owned by the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The construction of new hydroenergy facilities for electricity production is also properly arranged regardless of whether the investor is private or has a full or majority stake in it. The investor of water structures for the production of electricity built on public water can operate them on the basis of construction rights for 99 years without compensation if he bought the land by means of his own funds for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia or with the payment of compensation, if the right of construction is founded on land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Exceptionally from this accumulation of water and sewers and tunnels, the investor builds directly in favour of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia because the accumulations are physically constructed and are physical. Therefore, the legal inseparability of the land under accumulation. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63353	We have one replica of the respected representative Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63354	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor. You said everything exactly, but here I would still one here little aspect which I see you mentioned pointed out. When we talk about water good, we also ignore nature, or protected natural values. There is a very big problem that is the maintenance of water streams that are also protected. There's always some disagreement between the Nature Protection Act and this law that we're talking about, and it would be very good if those resolutions had a little harmony in the same ministry, that there wasn't a fight. And how important this law is here you'll know best how to say recent developments in Zadar County, in your municipality, the flood policy that happened. So it's extremely important that one preventative defense from flooding, because we have seen that the damages are millions if the waterways are unsustainable. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63355	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63356	Dear colleague Zekanovic, you've already actually said everything in your speech. This law right now regulates all these problems concerning local administration units when it comes to floods and all others, maintenance of public waterways, etc. As for the Ministry of Environment and Croatian Waters, I am convinced that it will be regulated in a way that will find a common goal, that it will achieve the maintenance of these waters in favour of the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63357	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate, reporting from Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63358	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, esteemed secretary with assistants. Of course, the Tribba Waters Act has caused much more attention, greater preparation, and I will agree with my colleague who spoke on behalf of the club to discuss this law to the Tribba House in which Parliament's representatives decide with more information, aspects. Here we can look at the meaning of this side that I'm about to say. I will speak critically of this law as the last obstacle that essentially enables the privatisation of HEP. That's a fact, because with this building, hydrothermia becomes owners, so it allows it to own HEP, and we know that HEP within itself has always called for a number of problems in terms of those who led HEP. And HEP is essentially the one who was supposed to be a strategic company that will manage energy which will be essentially the one that will expand and be a regional player, and not for example, as is the case of a wind power plant or a subsidy law brought by Minister Vrdoljak where it is essentially damaged. It is clear to everyone that we give a billion and a half kuna to other foreign investors, foreign investors, which he could have done because we have these potentials. And I believe that HEP should be a regional player and not be sold. Why is this the last obstacle? Well, this is the last obstacle since Minister Vrdoljak announced, as I said in the replica, that 25% of the shares of HEP should still be sold in 2014 to go into privatisation on... However, by way of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it has proved to be an obstacle to this very part of ownership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that you've arranged the property in fact whether it's a respected dream of your coalition partner and whether we need to know the MP who threw his paw at HEP, because he did the same thing a year ago. Here comes Prime Minister Plenkovic, who will go for the sale of HEP. With this meaning, colleagues we no longer have any obstacle to the 2014 intention of Minister Vrdoljak on the sale of HEP from 2014 Minister Vrdoljak on the sale of HEP because in 2011 the government was still Jadranka Kosor, and then the relations where it was declared strategic were complicated, and the state owned all these buildings such as hydropower. It is 2011 during Jadranka Kosor. However, this law allows the dream of Ivan Vrdoljak to be realized, now the man who has the party in power and again, and that was during Milanovic's government and the message means that Martin Dalic and Prime Minister Plenkovic sent it. So I'd like to ask you one more time, if this is the last one, if you can go to HEP privatisation and announce 25% of the shares with this law that Mr. Shilag has been removed, I'm personally interested in you telling me as a representative, I'd like to talk critically about that, and that's my key question. Is this the last obstacle where clean relations can be done and where you can go to the privatisation and realization of the 25% dream of Ivan Vrdoljak's strategic company HEP and the sale means not only HEP but also all the resources in which it is owned. Here's another one, so this is one law per me where I've been looking at it critically, just for the announcement of HEP's sale. And here I would ask you, and hopefully you'll answer this question of mine, is it all clear now, is there any obstacle to going to the sale of 25% of HEP? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63359	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleague Bulj, and you've talked a lot about privatisation and some statements, so I'd just like to explain a few things to you. So when we're talking and we need to be precise, so when we're talking about 25%, it matters whether it's 25% or 25%-1. Why? Because under the Company Act three-quarters, with three-quarters of the capital, it means 75% of all major strategic decisions can be made. So if someone buys a 25%-1 stake that someone can't influence strategic decisions. And that's important because when you're talking about privatisation, you're actually implying that someone is going to take over complete management of HEP. And I think it's from those statements that you mention in no way can be carried out and that's important to emphasize, and of course I don't prejudge because there's still an analysis of how it's really going to look. But I'm saying, it's important to be precise. So privatisation means selling to a private investor, a partner of a particular stake in the firm, but that doesn't necessarily mean taking over the management stake. And when the prime minister's statement is mentioned, he explicitly stressed 25%-1 shares. And that part is important to emphasize that the Croatian public knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63361	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63362	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, I understand that 25%... It's not enough to have steering mechanisms, but it's a lot of companies being strategically very important as INA telecommunications, all of them, telecommunications have been stressed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Telecommunications began to privatise HDZ and ended with SDP or INA, only vice versa, from the white nights SDP and ended up later with Sanader taking over MOL. Therefore, we are talking about caution here, we are here personally against the sale of HEP as a strategically very important company that can spread to other countries and we can be a regional player with our potentials and development mechanisms. However, I generally asked this question, I went critical, targeted, critical because the fact that Minister Vrdoljak announced the sale of HEP 25% and this was repeated by Prime Minister Plenkovic now a year ago. And this is the last obstacle, I'm just asking that, is this one of the last obstacles that you can go for sale, I've asked... who came here from the profession whether this was the last obstacle that was removed so that a dream could be executed and that finally whoever threw his paw at this and sold this HEP, against the citizens' interests, was my position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63363	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63364	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, listening to you, means you didn't say anything about this law, either, except that you came here with the intention of talking about the privatisation of HEP, and that was again the theme of the break that was before, just before this Water Act. So, according to you at MOST, setting up the balance sheet of a public firm isn't necessary, it's better that we don't have orderly books, we don't have orderly land books, we don't have proper property, and then nothing's gonna happen. Is that the attitude of the Most, now you get up and say it? So we in MOST insist that nothing is arranged, that HEP does not enter ownership where it owns its energy facilities, we do not support the right to build, we do not support the development of the energy sector because it allows this law. So that's the only question you're dealing with right now for us here means that you're pushing the MOST to make sure that nothing in the balance sheet is resolved and that everything remains messy so that it's in your view that something positive or negative happens to this HEP that's not at all the subject of this law, except what it says in part means that it allows ownership of its objects to be resolved. Here, now you say yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63365	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63366	Thank you, dear colleague Boric, for asking, I understand this law, I understand what they hold in state property, I understand the concession for 99 years, but I also understand the statement by Prime Minister Plenkovic where MOST is sold 25%. I've asked the secretary as a parliamentary representative, which is my right, you won't be telling me which is my right to ask, or by the Rules of Procedure, to determine tomorrow that this cannot even be asked by the Prime Minister or the Secretary. I asked if this was the last obstacle to meeting Prime Minister Plenkovic's announcement, when the balance was cleared, when everything was well thought out and enlisted to sell HEP. It's not you, it's not my father, it's my father, it's my people, and I, as a representative of the people, have the right to ask. And don't think I won't ask and I won't talk. You can change all your rules of procedure. Well, this is a dream, and here I think you've succumbed to Mr. Vrdoljak's dream, which in 2014 announced the sale of HEP 20%, 25%, also repeated Martina Dalic's move now a year ago, to a Christmas MEP, that he would sell 25% of HEP shares. You can easily check that, we're not that forgetful. And that's my question. I know exactly what the intensity of this law is and what it's about. This is the overly serious Law of Croatia, where it should protect the way to achieve the dream of your coalition partner and the announcements of Minister Dalic and the diameter of Plenkovic, to sell 25% of HEP and I should ask one more secretary, to whom it is right, to ask as a representative, have you all cleared that whoever threw his paw at HEP, that what Prime Minister Plenkovic said, a year ago, to sell HEP and what he tried and had an obstacle, and that is this obstacle, this amendment, Mr Vrdoljak. That's all I'm asking you. I wish I made myself clear. Mr. Horvat has now confirmed that I am clear and understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63367	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63368	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I agree with this sentence, a little while ago, that we're kind of jumping from track to track, and I think at some point this debate is slowly going into a dead end, because the subject of this debate is not the insurance of the conditions, to get into any... HEP is already being edited here by another and different economic sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I had a chance to say today at the break, I'll do it again. So at this point, it's impossible, and believe me, there are objective reasons why I say it's impossible. Put in an open public offer or 25% plus 1% or 25% or 25% minus one share. So, HEP is at this point in a situation and in a state in which he is not ready for a public offering. Without quality restructuring, HEP Group, therefore, first and foremost we need to understand and we need to know what HEP Group is. HEP Group is a market and HEP Group is an infrastructure. So no one here in the Republic of Croatia, taught the facts and experiences of transition countries, will open any possibility of putting infrastructure on the market. So at the moment when accounting and ownership overlaps what is marketable and what is infrastructure so regulated, the discussion of the privatisation of HEP is completely deplaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63369	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63370	My colleague Horvat, I said once that you should have been the Minister of Economy, not Mrs. Martina Dalic, and it can be repeated, because at least you answer these questions that I give. You said something. Although not on my inquiry. I'm curious, is everything clear now, without restoration, without, I don't know, I'm not going into relations within HEP. Dal was all clean and this was an obstacle announced by Vrdoljak, you followed him, because surely you were in politics then, you were in the economy, that in 2014, his statement, when he came up with the idea of selling 25% of HEP through IPO. And this was an obstacle, which is now what this part, where it's going to... The resolved ownership of these relations, which are in the state, means 99 years will be water, streams, tributaries, accumulations, OK, I understand that, however, hydrothermia, so everything is clean for sale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About restructuring the company, about this, I'm not going in, I'm not that professional. I am only interested in answering the secretary, but when it is not the minister here, whether what Minister Vrdoljak dreamed of, Plenkovic repeated in a Christmas paper together with Economy Minister Mrs Dalic, that 25% of HEP will be sold to buy INA. I wonder if this is a clean situation? Was this an obstacle in 2014? This was an obstacle in 2014, and I believe it's clean, much cleaner, let's clean up. So this is a very important law, actually, I personally object to the privatisation of HEP as then we Bridge while we were in the coalition as well as now. I'm saying this on the other side. I absolutely understand the intensity of the law, because I read it, I understand, I'm sorry that he didn't study it better tomorrow, but I'm sorry, if someone threw this paw and to fulfill the dream of the Vrdoljak, which Plenkovic repeated a year ago. If this is all about it, then we're in big trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63371	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63372	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 242, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Water Act and secondly, all remarks and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, 31 abstentions, 17 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63373	The following law we will discuss is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the financing of the water economy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, were accepted by the Proposer's proposal to discuss this legislative proposal as a matter of urgency. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Mario Šilj, here you are, colleague Bulj. Now we can continue the debate on the law, so the representative of the proposing state secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Mario Šiljeg, will say something about this law on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliamentary MPs and MPs You asked the question, here I will gladly answer briefly and clearly, as I said and in the first part, so the answer is no, these amendments and additions to the Water Act are not the last obstacle to the privatisation of HEP. [[You asked the question, I think you'll get the answer now.]] This law, which defines better and more comprehensive water protection and, in order to cover or ensure better and more comprehensive water protection, should be regulated by the State and has the right to do so. On the second part of your question whether this bill is a dream or a dream of former Minister Ivan Vrdoljak, unfortunately I cannot offer an answer because we are not close enough to know what the former minister dreamed. Thank you very much. He would now say a few introductory words on the amendments and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act, which was also adopted in a way that was, in addition to representatives of the professional institution and relevant bodies of Croatian Water Ministries, Associations of Cities, municipalities and county communities, and the HUP and groupings of water and sewers and HGK, all of them actively participated in the adoption of this proposal. Also, the law prescribed a debate and consultation with the interested public. It should also be noted that it is proposed that this law should be adopted by emergency procedure in accordance with Articles 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for particularly justified reasons and for the harmonisation of the law with EU documents. The amendments and additions shall apply to the following. Under one, the commitment from the eu-pilot to ensure the application of Article 9 of the Water Framework Directive. The proposed new provisions on the economic value of water and the application of the principle of reimbursement of costs from water activities will ensure that all users split at least into industry, households and agriculture. It shall be possible to reimburse the costs of water activities on the basis of an economic analysis which is the basis for determining the share of the reimbursement of the costs of water activities including environmental costs and the cost of resources. All together according to principle... Furthermore, it improves the billing and payment of the water treatment fee in a way that increases the compensation to the local self-government unit for the water collection commissions from the current 5% to 10% of the compensation paid for water treatment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, the units of local self-government, which are also charged in addition to the communal fee for water treatment, will pay 10% of the amount of compensation paid on the basis of the water treatment fee provided by the local self-government units at the expense of Croatian waters instead of the 5% so far. The 10% fee must be spent for construction and maintenance of coastal drain buildings owned by units of local self-government while the compensation for each solution is the administrative cost of the unit of local self-government. Also, assumptions are being made to reduce water loss in the public water supply network. The current law established a provisional collection of fees for the use of water by 1 January 2018 when a fee should be charged for the use of water for the amount of water affected, which at the moment we have losses of 49% would result in a significant increase in the price of water delivery for our citizens. Therefore, it is proposed to re-establish the provisional collection of the compensation for the use of water until the application of the Regulation on the level of compensation for the use of water relating to the coefficients for the use of water due to acceptable water loss, and also to propose the establishment of a system of telemetric monitoring of the quantities of water affected on all water supply procedures and to provide funds for the recovery of losses through a water management plan, with a view to reducing total losses in public water supply. This proposal does not alter the calculation so far and does not affect the increase in the price of water services for end-users and creates conditions for the start of the application of the billing and the charge for the use of water on affected quantities of water with a view to reducing total losses in public water supply systems. Finally, the law provides a discharge to the economy from non-taxable givings such as compensation for the use of water and water protection fees. Namely, the basis for the introduction of correction coefficients for the protection of water towards the degree of treatment of waste water and for those economic operators that release waste water has been laid down, and they have built their own cleaning devices and achieve the required level of purification. The basis for introducing correction coefficients for water use is also laid down to encourage certain activities, which will also lead to further redundancies of the economy from non-taxable duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63376	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, the first Mr. Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63377	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State. You didn't impress us with your exposure. It is clear that you intend to continue to privatise Croatian waters with these two laws today, which will then be sold to Croatian citizens as dry gold. I would like to remind myself that there are already 30 concessions in Croatia that are best known to Mr. Todorovic, who pay water for two fine waters and sell them six, seven kuna liters each. It is also clear that this trend continues with these amendments to the law. You claim that as it is now going to the economy and citizens, and explain to me how it is possible for water bills to represent only 40% of the total price and that it is also possible that Croatia as the country that has the largest resources of Europe may be in Europe, some say that we are third, others say that we are fifth in any case have a lot of water, there is more expensive water than all countries in the region, and even let's say desert countries in the Middle East that are severely debilitating water, have lower prices of water than Croats. So what you're going to do is really lower those prices of water so that citizens can also exercise their public rights, but also their human rights because, as we know without water, there is not only human existence but there is no life in general. So I'm particularly interested in whether with these announced amendments to the law, we're going to get the water for the household and how much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63378	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63379	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary, I claim that you did not tell the truth is that 25% of the shares should be settled up to 25 percent of the shares announced by Andrej Plenkovic, and before Vrdoljak, the issue of ownership of HEP hydrocentres that were complicated after 2011. The HDZ government led by Jadranka Kosor in the Water Act decided to declare land and water-related buildings as state property. At that time, the government's view was that HEP is a strategic company and that there is no its privatisation, so the same ownership remains both HEP and hydrothermia and which come 50% of HEP's electricity production. So this is what the Constitutional Court asked for, but this is also repeated by Vrdoljak. So it's not true that this is not a road cleaning to privatisation, whether the last one should be restructured or not, I don't know and share everything I don't privatise about it, but the fact that this is what Andrej Plenkovic said to the Croatian Waters Act is 25% of the shares that this was one of the key obstacles to privatisation. And that's true, everything else is at least a lie, but with a big lie. Someone threw their paws at HEP, interesting lobbies threw their paws out, and at this point this law on Croatian waters that you just told me was simple guessing and preparing the sale. As for Croatian waters on water protection and what Bunjac said about it is the least spoken about in this law, it is most said to prepare the sale of HEP and our resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63380	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'd like to stress is that it's precisely one of the intensities of the adoption of the Water Economy Financing Act to avoid the collection of water means one of the key intensities to avoid the collection of water prices. What would happen if we didn't pass this law now? There would have been a situation if we had the bonds to charge water for affected rather than delivered quantities of water, since we have losses of currently 49% at the level of the Republic of Croatia's losses, it would have been an enormous blow to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is the way we want to do it before there is a final calculation at the price of the water affected to create a prerequisite for reducing these losses to an acceptable measure. It is about multi-annual programmes and action plans prepared in Croatian waters and these days it is going beyond plan for the first year, i.e. the year 2018 of action measures with the means of funding provided. As for the issue of the honourable representative Bulj, his question concerns the amendments and additions to the Water Law that has been concluded, and we are discussing the Water Economy Financing Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63382	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture? No, I don't. Let's get to the debate. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Slaven Dobrović, the club of the representatives of the independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the promoter. So this is part of this package that I don't think should have come to this debate, especially when it comes to first and second reading, so I'm not going to repeat those remarks, but here I'm going to look back a little bit on the scale. We heard from the promoter what it was all about. So, the EU pilot and okay, so issues are being addressed, so we need to settle as well as other EU countries. Then announced announcements regarding the charge for water treatment, so more funding for local self-government units. And the last thing we have to do is solve the loss problem, so that's where I'm gonna hang out for a while. For a very long time, it has been said that the fees for the use of water delivered to the affected water will be delayed again. So, I think that's at least 10 years it's been delayed, so that delay. Why? Because it would be particularly difficult for large water lines to bear, i.e. All those plumbers who take very little care of their losses. So the difference between the water involved and the losses in the network have been delivered and, of course, it is irresponsible to treat our very valuable resource in a way that we practically have a hollow distribution network and that the water is losing. Thus, water and all energy are lost and all the work involved in preparing water for water supply and then delivering. I'm thinking since last year I had a chance to defend and move again and I thought, so now it's really enough, so it's an action plan. I also know the resort, so I know that some waterworks that are responsible for it and are taking measures because in a few years, there is a lot to be done. So there are technical measures that get a few percent right away, and then the state and plan detection, so the replacement of the problem points solves, of course, through some period of time, the situation is going to change significantly and certainly in a year, two, three can even halve the loss. And now with this kind of delay, we're actually going to go back to them again, and it's usually the ones who have the most money. So they don't need any funding from the action program. They're lazy most often and therefore irresponsible. They're setting up the wrong people to run these vaults. So, people who don't understand it at all, and then somewhere in their last place, that's priority. They're dealing with other things, and here we go again, delaying that obligation, which is quite all right to charge for the use of water for what it really is. So, the water line's taking that water, so you can pay for it because you've got it. You deliver half as much as you do, so make sure that percentage gets bigger. They persist, some don't because it doesn't matter to them, and it's really big money, because if 100 million cubes are lost a year, so in the distribution network, clearly I don't know it's 2.8 kuna or how much of that compensation that it's not small money. However, I'm not sure that we're doing the same thing again and we're going to talk for another ten years about putting it off. I've lost hope that's not the case, so I'm not sure I'd support that proposal. I don't know to what extent he justifies the need and the state whether or not we are threatened by a Commission objection that our approach here is not good enough. I say it's a shame there wasn't a chance, i.e. which is the debate here this morning I repeat placed on the agenda, announced for tomorrow which is also fast. However, moved so through the morning 24 hours ahead, which really puts one shadow in the process itself, which opens up all these questions that you will certainly have the opportunity to hear from what lies behind this procedure, which is why. So it's certainly not a matter of hours, not a dream, not a week, but we could have done it in a much better way in peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63384	Thank you, too. Mr. Dobrović, you have one replica of Mr. Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63385	... Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[I'm sorry, Mr. Bull.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63386	Mr. Bulj, Mr. Lovrinović is first, you're second.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63387	Who?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63388	Lovrinović first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Dobrović, there is no dilemma for me what this amendment of the law means about the water economy. There is even this case of the Republic of Germany, so although this is not clearly spoken but it is quite clear that hydroelectric power plants should be returned, it means the accumulation of HEP in order to make HEP easier to privatise. So I have no dilemma at all because the sale of Croatian assets and the most important resources continues, and this government is doing as we see it do. And this morning I exposed to the press an attempt to silence the privatisation of the only state bank of HPB. And here I got information that Friday's assembly was canceled, and here's why it makes sense to warn about this kind of assessment. However, I would like to ask you one thing, while you were, so while MOST was the HDZ coalition partner and you were in the government for several months, you were in charge of water, water economy. Have you been able to come in these months, let's say so, or find out that what's going on right now is what's going to be done all along because let's remember the Minister of Economy in the past SDP coalition government he pushed that project. He obviously now wants to push him through the HNSS as the strategic partner of this coalition government. Do you have the impression that that's exactly what the political work is about, because I suppose these months you should have felt what we were doing there, not to say game game or what plans are being made? And we see that it wants to be realized now. Can you in any way describe or disprove what I said?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Dobrović, there is no dilemma for me what this amendment of the law means about the water economy. There is even this case of the Republic of Germany, so although this is not clearly spoken but it is quite clear that hydroelectric power plants should be returned, it means the accumulation of HEP in order to make HEP easier to privatise. So I have no dilemma at all because the sale of Croatian assets and the most important resources continues, and this government is doing as we see it do. And this morning I exposed to the press an attempt to silence the privatisation of the only state bank of HPB. And here I got information that Friday's assembly was canceled, and here's why it makes sense to warn about this kind of assessment. However, I would like to ask you one thing, while you were, so while MOST was the HDZ coalition partner and you were in the government for several months, you were in charge of water, water economy. Have you been able to come in these months, let's say so, or find out that what's going on right now is what's going to be done all along because let's remember the Minister of Economy in the past SDP coalition government he pushed that project. He obviously now wants to push him through the HNSS as the strategic partner of this coalition government. Do you have the impression that that's exactly what the political work is about, because I suppose these months you should have felt what we were doing there, not to say game game or what plans are being made? And we see that it wants to be realized now. Can you in any way describe or disprove what I said?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63391	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Lovrinović, it is true that after several months when a man looks at a retrospective, he sees things more clearly, not everything is not without a clear reason, many things happen with a precise plan. However, I would say that okay, first degree, and that's the regulation of HEP's business books, I really think that needs to be arranged. The next thing you know, it's something we all need to follow closely together and be careful never enough. Of course, we can learn from history, so for the last 25 years that a lot of things have been done badly and that Croatia and Croatian citizens will suffer long-term damage from certain bad decisions for years. Of course, those decisions have made someone a rather desirable situation, but it's clear that we are all here together in charge of exactly national interest, so to preserve everything valuable. And there's work to be done and here's how much I'm happy to get involved in all these activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63392	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63393	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Dobrovic, you said and as the minister said, the secretary said that water, water losses are huge, large, but that water does not go through pipelines, through water lines, would it, where that water would end in the sea, probably from Cetina? Therefore, in Croatia, water is expensive for households and economic operators, but it is not expensive for example. When the concession was given at the source of Cetina where, in 37 seconds of debate at the Government, the concessions amounted to about 200 kuna a day for the water charger, the source of Cetina. So let's be honest, and other countries have minimum remuneration for citizens, even some free water, we have the best and greatest potential and resources, that's water. The Peru Lake alone has the largest, so in this area, a pool of drinking water is 570 billion liters. Therefore, we have this potential and citizens have nothing to pay for someone's losses or losses or how much, simply in Croatia should strive for every citizen, every household to have as cheap or free water, maintenance and something else to pay for. Not that there's more than ten times the amount of water in the account for other fees and that sort of thing. So they're still turning off the water that's the funniest of people, the citizens. Once again, I'm disappointed with the secretary what he didn't answer here and at the beginning of the speech he referred to my question from the former point of view and here he avoided answering because of course everything he said at the previous point was a lie but I'll explain it a little later and in the apartment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63394	Okay. Maybe we should pick a few words. Here you go, Mr. Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63395	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bulj, that otherwise the water economy is actually a convenient business, namely water lines, they must be in service to the public, since they are practically monopolies, they affect the water at the source, they process, they draw pressure and distribute, they care about the network, they care about the quality of water and therefore they provide this very important service to the citizens. I'll mention when you said the price. So here were the words, the price of water is of course in many cities quite exaggerated. When we look at the water price structure, then we'll see that the water itself, let's say everything about it, which provides a technical unit, which is draining, water treatment, and distribution, that's not more than maybe a kuna or a maximum of two per cubic metre. You can even catch seawater today and rework it, so, with... So the high pressure is here in play and the production cost is no more than 4.5 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And look at the price we pay in cities. And it is clear that this is a comfortable business and practically the people who take care of it are quite carefree and therefore it is necessary to make sure that the system is arranged as soon as possible, that the water is unnecessarily drained, processed and thrown into the underworld, rather than be held accountable to that resource. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63396	Thank you very much. We are now going to discuss clubs, in front of HNS Mr. Milorad Batinić. Here you go. ... Who? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry. Mr. Bull is right, he asked for a word before. Here you go. And now Mr Batinic, Milorad Batinic, in front of the Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. These changes to the Water Economy Fund Act are brought by several newspapers, we primarily consider in the club of the HNS improvements and the fact is that this law, amendments to the law and the law before the waters and what could be heard from these discussions simply will not collect water. It is defined primarily what has been delayed for years, that the relationship between the affected, delivered water would not say to extend, but to public suppliers rather than simply to give them a time limit. Because what has been said here in the opening secretary of state is 49% that they are losses. The question should be asked if public water suppliers are able to generate those funds if they apply the regulation tomorrow and at whose cost it could go to. Certainly, since it is mainly water suppliers that are a utility mostly owned by local self-government, it means the cost of their business which would certainly generate huge losses and, of course, completely unfairly, it would be unconstitutional to pass that cost on to end-users, i.e. whether they are households, economies or other users. I therefore consider this approach necessary, but it is equally likely that in the competent ministry we are thinking about which deadline we can talk about when talking about these adjustments how long it will be possible to do so and what time-limit it will be tolerated on. The opportunity is, and we are aware of this more or less everyone, a few words and about the water supply system in what state is our water supply system? In a pretty bad way. It's better somewhere. It's better somewhere. Unfortunately, we still have certain environments where we have and the water supply system I won't say that it doesn't have to be even old, it's about ten years old and seven years old. There were certain periods of course in the public procurement processes that certain equipment that was built on simply went through public procurement and great losses on water supply systems we just have from some seven to ten years ago objects from water supply that were built means water supply systems. The quality of the simple dictionary, the quality of the pipes that were being implanted, did not meet the standards. As for further parts that Croatian waters are obliged to set waterways, I absolutely support. What should certainly be taken into account, in my view, because the capture of the water itself at the springs, I was unable to read primarily, it is good in the Water Act, but perhaps it should be noted here when it comes to water capture that it is mandatory to keep an eye on the biological minimum because the law on water, on financing, in general on the water economy, should absolutely be the principle of respecting the minimum of biological compliance. There are certain experiences, knowledge that certain utility suppliers do not respect the principle of biological minimums and practically water streams from which or wells that practically generate or form water streams do not respect these principles. Of course, it is something that water inspectors should certainly take care of. Furthermore, as regards the amendments to the law in the part where this supplement to Article 3a is spoken whether or not the price of water will be collected, that it will, certainly, but not by this law. We simply forget the principle of wage polluter and users as citizens, as industry is not just about that water that we spend whether to drink, whether the sanitary will but to forget about the concept of draining because the level suppliers they are obliged to provide and drain, I am talking primarily about sanitary disposal and, of course, someone has to pay for it, and these are the users. We or the economy or whoever's already in the system and the sanitary drain. Where will this be financed from? There is now the possibility of funding from European funds, from national funds and Croatian water co-finance certain projects, but I would like to, and I believe that the Resort Ministry, and especially Croatia's waters in whose jurisdiction it is to define certain deadlines. It might be too ambitious to say that it is the end of the financial perspective in 2020, but certainly in 2027, which looks quite far now, but believe me, given those investments that are necessary, I think it's quite an ambitious deadline, but I would like the ministry of that attitude, and also Croatian water to try where it is realistically possible, it would be ideal in the whole area of the Republic, meaning not only that public water supply is available but also disposal, I'm primarily talking about the sanitary draining of the coastal waters. First of all, there was a lot of talk that we were rich in water. Yes, but this water is not evenly distributed to capture in all areas as much as we would need it so that it is ultimately expensive. Whether all these fees we pay through the price of water are necessary, necessary but simply this law does not go entirely, but there are certain indications going step by step and I believe that in the coming year or years it will be necessary to intervene in it, because we simply need to follow the principle of sustainability of the system. We need ourselves primarily when we talk about funding the water economy, and we need a vision of whether this system is now sustainable, whether this system is sustainable. Just ask yourself, first of all, whether in balances, how many funds are reserved or how much funds are available to invest in the new municipal infrastructure of certain municipal companies, how many Croatian waters and so on. I believe, and it is seen from the financial reports that this system of funding will simply have to experience not only saving for a more rational business, but it will have to be reserved for far more and more funds and utility companies, Croatian Waters, and I say applying to European money in order to succeed in the next ten years this system will lead to the measure that would be satisfactory. We will also submit an amendment to Article 12 of the Act, Article 12 of the current law, Article 7 of the amendments and additions as regards the financing of certain water contribution activities, I believe that it will be accepted. As regards the units of local self-government and the collection of compensation along with the communal water treatment fee, these 10% is a measure of some correction and a corrective measure is fine because there are real objective costs that local self-government units have and I believe that this 10% is an absolute quality solution, which is more so than the people in Croatian waters whose bill pays the water fees from the local self-government budget not only the technical part of the payment, etc., but also the audit of the space on which the municipal fee is charged so that that part of the cost can be added to this part in some way. As far as these adjustments are concerned, more or less I think they're okay that they're acceptable and this part is also acceptable. As far as the development fee is concerned, public water service suppliers, in particular 20% of the funds collected to cover the cost of maintenance of the plant because we are aware of many places and counties and local self-government are built and purifiers, disposal systems, however, we all forget that maintenance of these systems is no cheaper during the period of time, the period of time than the construction itself. What is certainly not popular measures, I cannot say at this point which will be the price of water, but I think it moves somewhere around 8 to 10 kuna in net amount per cubic or 1,000 liters of water. Mostly and as citizens we must be aware of this resource, this resource seems to us to be inexhaustible, but we have witnessed in the last few years of sudden changes and climate change primarily and rain regimes, groundwater regimes, levels, and this source as such is not inexhaustible. We must primarily be as end-users very flexible and we must begin to distinguish what drinking water is, and what is sanitary water and look for certain other uses, especially as regards sanitary water, whether there were some initiatives to build household containers for use precisely with a view to dealing more rationally with that resource. As for further these losses, I believe that Croatia's waters also have a specific strategy, a specific plan, and I believe a resolute ministry in which period, how can these large systems be made? And certainly that idea that was referred to backwards for seven, eight years perhaps more unifying public water service suppliers, is it still a trend whether it is still being considered in that part, but not in the way of creating large systems that are inert by the difolt rather than precisely for the rationalization of business itself. As for this part does not belong directly to this part, but I use the opportunity, I would just like to say one thing about local self-government, I think it should be much more quality, it primarily goes to Croatian waters, redefine which waterways, which categories of water streams are in the jurisdiction of Croatian waters, which are within the jurisdiction of local self-government units. We have today on the ground in practice major problems with Croatian waters in a way that clearly cannot pull the differences that canals, which types of canals, water streams we have to clean, regulate, take care of, which are in the jurisdiction of Croatian waters. In addition to funding in part of the water treatment fee that is collected from citizens along with the communal fee, I believe that many units that haven't done that part of the job will understand in the future that it is necessary and that this is also beneficial for them, not only for this 10% which is now real, but the more these funds are being raised, the more they are being used in solidarity. And I believe that it will also be considered in the future that these funds could be spent in a way more quality to realise certain projects and at levels of local and regional self-government. The HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63399	Thank you, too. You have three replicas. First Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63400	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate, you said the law was passed with the aim of not collecting water for consumers for citizens. My fear and some experience say that water will still have to collect, and part of that is what you said in your debate. This law provides for a billion and 800 million kunas for the adjustment of Croatian water suppliers for water meters, etc., but most water suppliers on the ground are in financial trouble and their financial problems or poor business have already been passed on to citizens, because, as fellow Dobrović said, I agree that the water is already too expensive for our citizens. And they're going to pick it up because this year's adjustment won't be enough because we have net losses in some cities and 60, 70% where water supply networks were built 30, 40 years ago. It's an awful lot of investment and big procedures, and it can't be solved easily. And also in those areas where a new water supply network is built we have very few connections. Citizens do not join the water supply network because they are overpriced and overpriced, and there must be some compromise to at least release the payment of the connections that we have and some models through the eu funds, but we must take this into account and we think that the water will still collect and that the citizens will carry that burden. Of course, I'm taking the opportunity to ask you if there's already been more debate that the HNS is pressing HDZ to get through this law, that you insist on being prepared to sell HEP, so here I am asking you to answer if that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63401	Thank you very much. Mr. Batinic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63402	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vlaović, HNS we are a liberal party, we are not exclusive. We're inclusive, we're always for discussion, we're expressing our views that we're not giving up, but we're willing to correct them as well as yours. Opinions I can respect or not, but in principle I think we can make a deal. Of course it doesn't stand, primarily not by this law or by that Water Act. As to whether or not the water is collected, I think you should be very clear and open to tell the citizens that there is no free water, there is nothing free, these are past the time. There was no rowing or there would be even as much as we spend it. As far as it's going to be, that's now the topic we can talk about. These fees that are prescribed, of course, look ugly, so to speak, when you get the price of water you don't know 2 kunas and something, and then your bill for a thousand liters goes up to 10, 11, 12 kuna. Yes, but we can also make it unique, the price of water costs 12 kuna, and still nothing to write. It can be that way, so can the Ministry, Croatian water they suggest, so they internally book it in various and for protection, for this and that, etc. It's a matter of access. But it's not free. But I'm asking you, I'm a smoker, a pack of 24 kuna cigarettes, and I spend 2,000 gallons of water a day. The price of a cell phone a day. Is it a thousand liters of water 12 kunas 15, or how much is that expensive? No, it's not expensive, and let's not go too far in that part and talk about some family, the water's expensive, it's not. What's all it takes, we're all very well familiar with it so that it can get to our faucet, or in that bottle or wherever it's from?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63403	Thank you very much. Second replica. Kliman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Batinić, here in your debate you also touched the problems of water loss in the networks in cities and settlements. We had before, therefore, started the legalisation process several years ago in Croatia and I witnessed in several places in my municipality we have a problem with legalization. So the facilities on the main water lines were legalized. The problem is that all units of local self-government do not have digitalized maps where the lines are visible and legalisation solutions have been issued, so they are practically drawn more and more into the cadastre and now it is already seen to be a problem. What happens when those pipes are found to be changing the loss on those same pipes and you have legalized objects on those routes? It is clear that geodetics should have been drawn in their water embodies, however, for notorious reasons for legalisation to be done, i.e. to collect their services they often did not do, whether from ignorance, sometimes from other intentions, but the fact is that this is the case. And we'll just see what kind of problems will open up to us on that point. I say I know specifically about a few cases, and that will certainly be a problem with the water treatment of these losses. Well, here's your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63405	Thank you very much. Mr. Batinic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63406	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague Kliman, that is simply one thing, it is our Croatian reality, the water lines were once built by local communities, local self-government, settlements etc. Today we still have private water lines, I call them privates owned by the citizens' association. That's our reality. But that's fortunate I think it's on some acceptable number that doesn't affect statistical indicators. The fact is, and I said the introduction, so you set an example from an environment that you know, yes. The fact is that when water is reconstructed, it is now material and this PHD and all that is built on water supply is not so expensive and it is simply the best place to go in reconstruction to build a new water supply system. It's cheaper than paying for a geodetic or pulling that pensioner if he's one more living from a utility company to know exactly where to go, etc. So the fact is what I said, I'd like to draw up a strategic plan to make it a completely new construction of water supply systems in the next 10 years from national sources primarily from cohesion funds, from European funds... It won't, so no demolitions. Let's go build a new network in the area. [[STAMMERING, I DON'T UNDERSTAND]] And the fact that someone legalized, which they didn't, that in my opinion would be the pea of the one who owns that water supply system, not the one who legalized it. It's a simple practice, but I don't think we should slave for such individual requests primarily by saying I'd like this problem to be solved in the next 10 years which is realistically very ambitious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63407	Thank you very much. Third and last replica, Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63408	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Batinić, there was a water leak in your presentation that colleagues had already mentioned. If we're looking at 49% of the statistics running out of water and what's going on? Nothing. Who's to blame? No one. When strangers, a citizen cracks a pipe after an hour, of course a citizen pays for it, it's not the same fault she rots because she can't control it. We know that it was the creation of the Croatian state that all municipal waters were being released directly into the rivers, that it was getting dirty, but then it was all normal for us. Of course we're going into Europe and we've made some steps in that part, and I think that's okay. However, here is today listening to the opposition, and when I listen to them ask some questions about privatisation, about this, about what, so we can't solve anything today if we won't allow some investment. Here's a colleague of the Bunjac said Plitvice Lakes. That I can agree with him, but Plitvice Lakes are state-owned. God forbid we privatize anything if it were some kind of privatisation, then the state would control it and force that private person to stop it. We can't keep being blind and talking just can't privatize this, we can't invest this, we can't do that. And we want good wages, good standards, and we stay on the old system. And certainly our construction operation can be employed mostly in cities to change the water and sewer systems to do this, to build new projects, there is an additional job, only resources can be sought from Europe, and certainly from our budgets. But it bothers me when you keep saying in opposition, if that's not good, it's not good. Well, we just need to stop it once, we need to try to solve it. We've already made a lot of progress in that system, looking at the cleaners and the rest through the European funds, and I think this is one progress, not some thing that needs to be seen as bad all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63409	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63410	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Lovirovic, I agree that we need to change the way we think in Croatia about private capital, private investment, but these are processes. Someone more difficult to accept, excuse me, colleague Misic, and someone simply is aware of that, but has another rhetoric. I understand that there may be resistance to someone, for me there is no such resistance. Because watch out, you have distributors, public suppliers, means private companies out there, doing, which are public suppliers and for, and disposal, sanitary and maintenance purifiers, of course, the end-user pays for it. I don't see anything disputed here. And I wish in Croatia as soon as possible. I wish that was the way it was. Because there have been some analyses of these countries, that when they came, a private, public supplier, let's call it that, that prices were adjusted to the lower rather than higher. So even more rational business, even though I'm an advocate, and I'll always say, that I believe that we can, first of all, set up a system and that the state can also be a quality and good and rational owner and that it can manage quality, with systems. If I could always agree with this loss of water, so I believe there are some, I'd say maybe inertness in some companies, is the fact that there is. Great systems, they simply generate inertness by themselves. That's inevitable. But simply, it's the problem of all the big systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63411	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the clubs, Mr. Davor Loncar, outside the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63412	Your Honor, Vice President. State secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed new provisions on the economic value of water and on the application of the principle of reimbursement of the costs of disposal activities in full... Article 9 of the Water Framework Directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The application of the provisions of this bill will provide for an appropriate contribution, to all users divided into industry, households, agriculture, return on disposal costs based on economic analysis, and taking the basis for determining the share of the share of the cost of the activities, including environmental costs and the cost of resources. Taking into account the principle that the user pays. This bill increases the compensation of local self-government units for jobs... Water treatment fees, instead of Croatian Waters, from the current 5% to 10% of the fees paid for water management. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a way that the unit of local self-government, which is charged in addition to the communal fee, will be paid 10% of the amount, if it pays compensation, from the basis of the water treatment fee, which the unit of local self-government has provided the account of Croatian Waters. A fee shall also be imposed for each delivery solution, the calculation of the water treatment fee, which also belongs to the unit of local self-government. The prescribed fee of 10% must be spent on purpose, installation and maintenance of buildings... Disposal of units of local self-government, while settlement-based compensation is the administrative cost of units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the unit of local self-government, the amounts charged must be paid at the expense of Croatian waters monthly, not as it has been a week so far, which is a good benefit for local self-government units compared to the previous law. The information is that the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection has just given its proposal and consent to such an amendment. The law regulates the way in which the compensation for the use of water is calculated, in a way that is decomposed to the amount of water affected by sources and other public supply and the provision of funds for recovery, losses through water management plans, with a view to reducing total losses on public water supply by Croatian waters. This proposal does not modify the account so far and does not monitor the increase in service prices for end-users. In order to reduce total losses in public water supply systems, the conditions for the start of budget examples and charges for the use of water shall be met. The objective of the Law was to address the problem of water loss in the water supply network in the long term, i.e. the same awareness of the level of technical acceptable loss, by applying correction coefficients, to reduce the amount of water charges. The law was also left with the primary deadline of 5 years for the notification of the provisions, which was prescribed in a new way by both the accounting and the obligor with the aim of introducing a methodology for defining, reducing losses in all public water supply systems. This proposal stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by a regulation on the amount of aid for the use of water, will set corrective coefficients that threaten the loss of water, which reduce the amount of compensation for the use of water due to acceptable water losses, but in order to encourage certain activities, as well as the start of the application of the accounts, the fees for the use of water for water quantities affected. Furthermore, what I particularly appreciate is that the economy will be relieved of tax duties, for the benefit of the use of water and for the protection of water, for those economic operators that release waste water, and have developed conditions for treatment, and achieve the requirement and degree of water. Also, a basis for regulating correctional coefficients, water treatment fees has been laid down, all in order to stimulate certain coefficients and reduce the economy for burdening water consumption from non-taxable duties. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63413	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, the first Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63414	Dear colleague, here I have not heard that you have pointed out here, a biological minimum, which is something that has not been said too much about today. I will highlight here an example of the Buticnica River in the Knin region, where for the purposes of the hydropower plant, it is meant to take water and that biological minimum is always at risk, I will say so that I would like to do little and through this law more to deal with this problem. Furthermore, I would mention something about the quality of water that my colleague Bunjac mentioned, so we are fortunate to live in a country where the quality of water is almost original to these 4 categories that exist, 95% of the water in Croatia and the land but to understand each other and marines has that original water quality, which is good, but there are always problems. Here it is, a colleague mentioned the problem in Plitvice, there are problems in Krka, the biggest problems are the cities that are upstream Drniš and Knin, which have not, unfortunately, solved all the collector systems yet, so that in this direction the small ministry must address the problem of building the arrangement and putting into function of collector systems especially on these violations of rivers which are also the source of drinking water. When you talked about losses, I agree, the losses are a very big problem, we heard, a hundred million kunas disappear in the underworld a year but here you would point out another problem and it was a problem counted in larger housing facilities. For example. in Sibenik if someone wants to put their own number in a building that has multiple apartments, 100% of residents must sign consent which is actually almost impossible. If there are 100 apartments in one building, then it's very, very hard for all co-owners to sign that decision. For example. in Zagreb, it's only 50%. I would like to be regulated legally, not to be given to local water lines, but to legally regulate how many co-owners have to sign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63415	Thank you very much. You were very precise in time, right for a second. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63416	Thank you. As for the quality of water, you know for sure that the quality of water depends solely on man because man is solely responsible for everything when it comes to environmental protection and water protection. The fact is that the positions of our cities and municipalities are very little to worry about the protection of both the environment and the water because this is not exclusive to the task of the unit of local administration regardless of what is in their area. As for the loss, we are all aware that we have inherited water systems that have been built for hundreds of years and that such systems are not sustainable and that we need all of us together and units of local administrations and ministries as soon as possible, even though I know these are huge amounts, reconstruct to make fewer losses. As far as the numbers themselves are concerned, I agree with you that this should be introduced in law even though so far it has been left to the local administration unit, or their municipal societies, in the way that it has so far been built... In fact, it gave them the opportunity to do part of how and how they do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63417	Thank you. Another replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63418	Thank you very much. Comrade Lončar, you have repeated what Secretary Šiljeg said, however, the fact is that not only the water losses we have in the system but the water as a resource in the Republic of Croatia is threatened and even in your area, in my area, you say by the action of a man. Well, here, for example. I will start from Donja Lomnica, where the asphalt base works right next to the waterhole and for Novi Zagreb and for Velika Gorica, the mayor is here from your ranks. And I was there on the spot, and here is Mr. Schuker living there and Mr. Beus, about 200 meters and the entire area of New Zagreb has been threatened. We're talking here about some water loss through pipelines at the current infrastructure, which is a fact, but the fact is that building a thermopower plant on Peru where we have two 500,000 liters of planned oil, it immediately threatens the largest drinking water pool where you're not far away, because today-to-morrow Split won't have sail water. We are threatening the water ourselves while we are calling here, people will have to pay for the water but the amounts we lose in the system should be recovered, so the water goes definitely from your Krka or through Cetina heading towards the sea. It's going towards the sea, it's God's gift, it's public good. But it's normal for Mr. Shileg to be in Lower Lomnica to be doing a asphalt base, that it's a thermal power plant, it's all normal here. That's acceptable. We must protect that resource and only by law and by constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63419	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63420	Comrade Bulj, I agree with you in part. In any case, a strategy should be put in place when it comes to protection because without the strategy itself, protection of the areas in which they are and water is what is necessary. However, there are few cases in which you mention it, I have personally managed a unit of local administration for a long time and I know that consultations are in matters of any kind of activity, when it comes to protection, local administration units are also consulted. So, to move everything over to the ministry even though it's the most responsible part of the job that has to be done isn't just the exclusion of the ministry, but to all of us who run those local administration units that are actually... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63421	Thank you very much. We'll continue with the clubs, Mr. Bunjac in front of the Living Walls Club and the SNAGA, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63422	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to take a brief look at this Water Economy Financing Act that we've been put past some common procedure. It's a first and second reading, an emergency procedure, so it's actually going to be passed without a proper reference to what's going to happen. However, I would like to point out that in fact this law should not have been discussed today for a simple reason because it lists various users who will pay compensation and who is the user, it is not defined at all because it is determined by the Water Act that is in the first reading. So we have a law that's conditioned by a law that hasn't been passed. So it would be more logical if we had discussed the Water Act today by emergency procedure, and then this law could come on the agenda. So one with the other law is collapsing, but simply so it was done the way we saw it. What exactly is the law I would just like to mention through one article that the public knows that the government is treating water, which is the next article that allows this to happen, that when the procedures show that the procedure in the space has a negative impact on the state of the water, and the procedure in the area is assessed as unacceptable or that the issue of a water law may be denied to the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry, to submit a proposal to determine the prevailing public interest. Do you know what that really means? This means, in particular, that if there is a tycoon in Croatia, a private investor who wants to destroy water and encounters resistance to the entire public, all studies are negative, such as an environmental study, then he can ask the government to grant him that investment anyway. And now we see how this law allows the government to act illegally, that it actually acts against the constitution and that it actually works on the principle that we had the opportunity to hear this year often I can do what I want. In addition, such an article of the law that allows the government to intervene in something that should not be intervened because the public always has the right to be informed, the public always has a co-determination. Finally, there is a democracy of civil society. Such a procedure is, among other things, contrary, to international agreements such as the Archduke Convention, and it is also contrary to the Homeland Security Act that we brought here some month ago in this House of Commons. So what do we see? How are laws adopted in Croatia? The laws in Croatia are passed in a way that the law is some single body, as if I don't know about a planet Mars that has nothing to do with planet Earth. He's in full collegiation for international conventions, he's in collegiate with other laws, he's in collegiate with other ministries, he's in college with himself. Because, as we saw first, we should have passed the Water Law, but whatever it is, he's taking the emergency procedure through the first and second readings in two hours. So that's how this government works. And what's behind all this, behind all this, this whole mess? Therefore, there is the private interest of individuals, the private interest of individuals who will earn, of course, always in relation to political structures. And here we see that after the governments had sold out the past banks, after they sold out the most valuable Croatian companies, after they started selling out people's homes through the performances, acquisitions, etc. Now eventually they come to sell out what we have most valuable, and these are natural resources like water, land. We also saw in that Act of Exclusion as it is called, so that simply here the Croats will lose everything they own. And that's the story and you heard probably, here's Mr. Boris listening, he's a teacher so he probably knows about the cricket and the ants how the cricket was playing the song all summer, and when the snow came, he suddenly remembered that there was no house, no heating, no food or nothing, and suddenly his song ended. Thus, our government is taking short-term measures, taking measures to cover the budget, taking measures to fill pockets from certain stakeholders, and in the long term Croatia is leading to failure. And it's really sad that after everything that we've been through since the 1400 years that we've been here, someone's been able to do in just 25 years to question all of this against those ideals that caused people in 1990 to mass and all together to create a Croatian state. I would also like to conclude another prank this law offers, which is that when such decisions are made, it means beyond all democratic parameters then it is stated that they are not also administrative acts. This specifically means that no one can complain about these decisions, it is not possible to press charges because if something is not an administrative act, then there is no suit. That's it. I'm sorry to have to tell you so openly, but that's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63423	Thank you, too, Mr. Bunzac. The moment the cricket and ant were mentioned, we immediately had two replicas, the same moment. First Mr. Pernar, and then immediately, Mr. Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63424	Dear counterpart Bunjac, the goal of this government, or I would dare say the objective of the credit system is to charge the company with debt on the one hand, and on the other hand to take his property. The aim of any legislative amendment, i.e. the objective of the legislative changes in the long term, is to make all the state or public property similar to the sale and ultimately, to mean that what once belonged to the entire community falls into the hands of creditors of those who are believers. I remember when Tim Oreskovic came and he was said to be a bankruptcy manager, and today we have another Prime Minister Plenkovic, but unfortunately his role is the same as Tim Oreskovic. So it all comes down to the same policy. The people are sold fairy tales, and at the end of the day when the people realize what happened, what you said will wake up suddenly, they'll see it's winter, it's cold, there's no kuna, there's no food. So it's going to be a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63425	Answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63426	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. So you're talking about just continuing the continuity of one policy in Croatia, of course, that's where the previous government played its part. All these documents, all these laws have been being prepared for a long time, certainly not written by the current secretary of state and the minister overnight, you're absolutely right, and they also refer to all those governments that were before, because here I am today reminding them that this spatial plan for Plitvice Lakes, which are completely devastated and threatened by the HDZ administration, has been brought by the majority of them in the SDP and HNS. Therefore, no such difference is made they are agreed to take part in this. I also do not want to go too far now, but the fact is that through all these tycoons that participate in the privatisations of water and other resources of Croatia appear together and SDP representatives and HDZ advocates hand-in-hand, there is no difference, there is essentially no such material interest, they are driven by the desire to appear in public for a few days, and in fact the responsibility of long-term strategies, thinking in the future, thinking about future generations is their least concern, they are not even thinking about it, let alone having a positive effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63427	Thank you, too. Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63428	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, we need to know that we have chosen Europe's path in democratic Croatia. According to your statement, we should do nothing in this Croatian state, sell nothing, privatize anything, do nothing. So looking at our path, the European way, so let's look at how such systems work in Europe, and you'll see that's not all you're saying. Second thing, you said Plitvice, okay. I agree with you if they're polluted, if that's all true let's make a sewer and purification systems and that's settled. It means the investment someone needs to complete and make. But we can't keep talking, we can't, we can't, we won't, we will, and in fact what do we want? We want to return, kidnap and return to one system of the former Yugoslavia as it seemed. Your exposure to me is exactly what associated me with the fact that this kind of system of Europe doesn't suit you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63429	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63430	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Misic. Well, we're in Europe, I don't know why we'd go through Europe when we're Europe. Do I have to write down Branim's hand now? I think that's understood. If we're on a continent called Europe, and that's what you see when you look at a geographical map, I don't know what kind of Europe would have to go with. And we're in Europe. And if you're thinking through the EU, then that's another thing, but you're simply not right because it's only enough to look at our Slovenian neighbours who are here, maybe half an hour driving by car who put water as a public good in the Constitution and you can't privatize it anymore. There is, however, water in the Constitution in Article 51 of the Constitution where it is said to be carefully cared for, but as we can see, it does not worry. So let's go do as one EU member did, so Slovenia is going and we're putting water in the Constitution, let's go. Here's me from the Living Wall, we'll give the initiative to protect the water with the Constitution, and then maybe we'll make this all the laws and we'll save time for a respected secretary of state to come here to the Parliament with their radical amendments to the law. And most importantly, we will not endanger citizens who are genuinely concerned. So the citizens are really worried, and they're very concerned that I don't know tomorrow they won't be able to come to pay, that they won't be able to go to Plitvice Lakes, that someone will shut down their water in the middle of summer, and that as we see mass work this year, they won't be able to achieve their own basic human rights and the rights of general civilization and dignity that people had in the Roman Empire. The water was publicly good in the Roman Empire, yes, and now we have this right here after two thousand years of development to take away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63431	Thank you, too. We're moving on with the clubs. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic in front of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63432	Thank you very much, Dr. Radin. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin the debate in fact with the amendment that I have submitted to the text of this law, and that is to say, Article 10, in particular, to add words or competent public water service suppliers, meaning the article would read ‘In Article 21(3), paragraph 4, which reads: The funds referred to in Article 17(6) of this Act are used to build and maintain the construction of coastal draining units owned by local self-governments’ and the addition or competent public water service providers. Why did I submit this amendment? This is the reason why it is found in the fact that certain parts of the divisional sewerage system as part of a unique technical unit are owned by a public water service supplier, not a local self-government unit. Therefore, this amendment would also allow for space to be made available to finance from the suspended part of the fee in question, regardless of whether it is owned by local self-government units or by a "water line" owned by them. Now back to the bill. The basic motive for the preparation of this amendment law and the additions of the Water Economy Financing Act is another prolongation of the introduction of a water charges bill... water instead of as a temporary solution to the applied method of calculating the compensation carried out by the amount of water delivered to the obligor via the water service provider. In fact, the HDZ and Most government then missed all of 2016 that according to legal obligations, according to the Regulation on the amount of compensation for the use of water goes from a meter cubicly delivered to a metre of cubically affected water. After the year lost at the end of 2016, the Government adopted amendments and amendments to the Water Economy Financing Act, which shifts the period of application from the end of 2016 to 1.1. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. As for the entire 2016 year, the HDZ government has done nothing in this case for the HDZ and HNS, and now for the second time for the start of the calculation per metre of cubic water affected by this new amendment to the Water Economy Financing Act wants to re-translate. But aware of their incompetences this time they do not even fund some new planned term of application of the new model of accounting, but they put it in the future and condition its application, quote – by carrying out the activities of Croatian waters on the establishment of telemetric monitoring of the quantities of water affected on all water supplies and watch out for this, providing funds for the recovery of losses through the water management plan for 2018. Two amendments to the law each year at the same time, this time even by emergency procedure only because the HDZ government, namely the HDZ and Mosta government, has done absolutely nothing in the last 24 months. What kind of missing resources is this HDZ government talking about today? According to newspaper reports, more specifically the 18th morning newspaper. 11. In 2017, the situation is like this – for projects in the water sector, up until 2020, or alternatively by 2023, cost us 1,049 billion euros in EU funds. Billions of colleagues and colleagues! The latest data say that of 68m euros, what is the realisation at the end of 2017, which we will agree is very modest, verified, which will say approved, 43m euros or 4% of available funds. Only 4%, so less than 5% of what we had we realized. And as a condition of introducing a new way of calculating the HDZ compensation, the government says that funds must be provided and which ones? Well, of course it's national. As if we did not have 1,006 billion euros in EU funds left to engage them. My colleagues and colleagues, if this wasn't funny, it would be tragic. The government is unable to withdraw even 5% of the funds available to us for this particular purpose. And until then, by the time the government is summed up and spent my, your and taxpayers' money, or by the time it has the power to withdraw funds, until then, until the introduction of a new way of calculating that will sanction an irrational way of managing the system, we'll still have recognised losses at the state level of 49%, and they're certainly bigger, so here I'm using a conservative assessment, or 230 million feet of cubic clean water annually. I can only tell you good-bye, gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the HDZ and the HNS, and bravo how you manage our money and our strategic resource.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63433	Thank you very much. We don't have as much as I've seen the replica. Mr. Miro Bulj's individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63434	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here today we had two very important laws, the first one about Croatian waters, now the law that is also very important, the proposal for a law on amendments and the addition of the Water Economy Financing Act. What we said at the beginning on behalf of the Most Club, as colleague Dobrović said, I will repeat it again. It's embarrassing that these laws are being pushed an hour before the debate, a few days ago, materials came in, but it was announced for tomorrow, so it just couldn't be prepared. But I will say a few words as well as a previous law which is certainly a law on privatisation, preparation of privatisation, this is the last obstacle to the privatisation of HEP, the law on Croatian waters. It is a fact and it is evident and it is clear to everyone that it is simply according to the announcement of a strategy this government has on the sale of HEP, it was announced by Prime Minister Plenkovic. And since it is now a coalition partner who announced two years before it, HNS and Vrdoljak, it is clear that it is the first law on the privatisation of HEP. And this law is basically what we're talking about sorting out something in fact that we're not protecting. The Ministry of Protection and the Environment should protect water potentials, our resources strategically, should essentially turn out to have to protect the people from the Ministry of the Environment to protect our water resources. I mentioned Lomnica. In Donja Lomnica where the asphalt base is a respected secretary 300 meters from the main water supply site for Novi Zagreb, Velika Gorica, the whole part means more than a million people will use that water, use that water drink. It's been questioned, you have to solve it, you're familiar with this number of memos, protests, organizations they've been looking for, so the Ministry is familiar and it's time to protect that drinking water pool. And we can also observe all the rivers that we have from the agglomerations where it's not protected, so some of them are protected, and most of them are not. So we can observe in the Dalmatian plum, the Dalmatian Zagora, and here you are in the territory of Herzegovina, you know and you come yourself from that area, that neither anyone protects it nor cares for water, except that the accounts come neatly, and in those accounts we have 20 items, so that the cubic water instead of being a gift of nature, to be as cheap as it is actually more expensive and expensive. And for the losses, it's not the people's fault, and besides, here's the question of another secretary, those losses that are lost in the infrastructure in the outdated infrastructure, where would they end up if they hadn't gone into the pipes, where would the water have ended? She'd end up in the sea, probably somewhere else from Cetina. So, what you're charging for is basically whose losses. So imagine you have sources here are listed, a colleague of Bunjac and later mentioned other colleagues of Plitvice Lakes as far as we don't care about the waters and we make laws. Imagine, I'll do it one more time. The source of the Cetina River is given in concession for 37 seconds of debate in the government, daily 200 kuna. A day of 200 kuna, and how much, so much one household a little larger, now a slightly larger agricultural economy that has spent so much money. So it's all a burden here. That's right, and in concessions in law, none of this is specific. So are beaches, waters, and beaches. It is known that the Split-Dalmatia beaches, the Port Authority were essentially FIMI Media, party infrastructures in the area. And that was why the problem was big in Split-Dalmatia County. Therefore, concessions, beaches, agricultural land, water cannot be delivered quickly. We must admit that this water that we charge from citizens, from business entities, that it is a natural good and public good that needs to be charged to maintain the technical these reviews of everything the triba needs. But you can't charge some, says the losses. And we will make this law so that no losses are paid. So who's to blame for those losses? Well, those losses would end up in the sea. From Cetina goes to the sea as far as I know towards Omis, from Vrlika towards Omis you take the map and see. But the water can't go uphill. You'd want her back up the hill but she can't, she can't go up the river. He can't go from Omis to up. It's not funny. It's just Croatian waters. Compensation for Croatian waters. Here I guarantee every household in my area pays compensation for Croatian water. And out of this will be taken again for Croatian waters, right? I'm right about that. At 90% of what was planned, they never come out to clean the canal, a water line of some kind, but people do it by themselves. They have to pick up their devices because they don't care. And they get a proper grant and they get a job maintaining those parts. I know that in my neighborhood. Here's an example of the former Dalmatinka factory. They were just sending bills while she was in bankruptcy. They never got into it, blocked channels, flooded everyone around but they're neat down there. And now three million kunas must be paid naturally in bankruptcy to Croatian waters that have never entered, which have never looked at that channel. The only thing neat about what they do comes in the morning, they drink coffee and go home to their own. That's neat. And maybe if they have a good tractor if it's worth keeping up a role model for themselves a field that's down in the field. It is not meaningful, but it is the fact that the people pay for what is not done and what is not maintained. You can't buy Mr. S.H.I.E.L.D. in the butcher shop, give money... I'll give you a kilo. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Would you mind? Would you object to that? And our people pay, you know, pay, and nobody does anything. It doesn't work but simply doesn't work system, and naturally good, we publicly try to protect it. I've named you from these rivers that I said, so here to Lomnica di in Donjoj where the asphalt base is in just a waterhole, where Novi Zagreb uses that water. So we're jeopardizing the whole part to suit it. Asphalt base three asphalts, it can't be here. It can't be near the waterhole asphalt base. What kind of protection? Who guarantees it's protected? I hope there's asphalt, there's oil, there's oil, there's oil, there's what's gonna pollute. It's a fact not so far away, you're a state official, you and the minister, so look. I'm on the call of these people, I'm not from those parts. Comrade Shuker, he's also familiar with it. Comrade Beus, they're familiar with that. And they know about the problem. However, the whole of New Zagreb will be easier to risk water, and here we are talking about the law, talking about how to charge, how to reduce the losses in the infrastructure. Yes, we have losses in the infrastructure but the fact is that water is natural, public good and that we try to protect it and protect it. But not to protect her people from the Ministry of the Environment. There is now such an example a few years ago when it was the same Ministry of Protection and the environment five, six years ago, but it only recently resolved two, three years ago. I haven't been to Parliament yet, and it's been wanting to postpone the cost of a long war along the Cetina River in the mine where I live. And they said it's healthy, that it's literally you can do it. So if it's healthy for them not to touch here on Mark's square in front of their offices or at your office di, to the ministry. And of course the people stopped it, but they'd poison the water with it. They absolutely don't care, because it was a game from the Long War was an English company that was allowed to charge the cost well from which the essential elements were extracted, i.e. ferro alloys... Money in the pocket, and waste would be thrown naturally into the rivers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we don't protect rivers, we don't protect sources, we give concessions for free. So, literally free strangers. And once again, as long as the people are able to protect the waters of the Ministry of Protection and the environment, there will be no squawk, and the people will protest to you both in Lomnica and the Cetina region and in Knin and in Sibenik and in Zadar, wherever the river is protested... And as for those to whom we pay compensations such as the Croatian waters by them water can be di fathers, nor do they maintain it, nor do they. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you're checking to see if they're working in the field. What is the verification system for the jobs they get to maintain the water canal? Are you even checking it out? And we don't have them here yet, and we're bound to pay them a certain amount through some kind of compensation. The problems are huge, the water is public good, we need to protect the water. It's a resource that needs to be protected by the Constitution. Otherwise, all of these laws, concessions, the Water Act, beach concessions, on agricultural land, this colleague, Boric, well knows everything was coming this quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63435	Thank you, too. Two replicas, first Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Bulj, you were talking about water as a strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and the losses that we have because of the bad infrastructure in pipelines, so I think it would be about that, but the city of Zagreb is one of those recorders, according to some estimates, the city of Zagreb is losing 50% of the water in pipelines because of the bad... infrastructure and what astounded me is that these losses would amount to about 250 million kuna per year, it's building one rotor in New Zagreb, which the city of Zagreb is about to do. So, we could have had 10 rotors by now, and that's one decision by the local government with which the Ministry has no bearing on it right now, but I want to tell you how much neither our people in the local self-government nor the mayors recognized wanted to recognize how much water was rich and this is a concrete example of one of those.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63437	Thank you very much. I'm guessing Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63438	So exactly so that local self-government and regionals have great guilt that they are in this state of water protection. what this resource and potential have not been better exploited and we have lost. Although I said at one point that these losses are a problem, but not so much, because these losses are definitely due to the biological minimum they will definitely go, the bigger the problem of polluting rivers, the bigger the problem is that they clean my rivers, clean springs. Well part of you Zagreb, Mr. Sladoljev, I don't know why the mayor doesn't react to you in Lomnica, uses most of the part of Zagreb, Novi Zagreb uses that water from that pool. There's a huge asphalt base in the waterhole. There's no reaction. And he won't react because they don't care, because if they cared about nature and water protection, then I would repeat again, and the city of Zagreb and the entire Republic of Croatia long ago, mainly the Republic of Croatia in the Constitution would be protected water as the inalienable public good of every man. And the losses are a minor problem can be solved. We can solve these losses, because water certainly has its biological minimum, there's excess water here. The bigger problems are water poisoning, water pollution, so here are countless examples. How many rivers we have that are supposed to be with a little bit of good will, to be clean, but today they're ecologically polluted, and everything's going to be worse and worse. And I especially stress that since you are from this area, here we call on the mayor of Zagreb to be threatened by part of Zagreb by drinking water, power because of Donja Lomnica, because of what is the end of the water supply site is building a huge asphalt base that will endanger the entire area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63439	Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63440	Mr. Bulj, I have kept listening to you, we all know that water may be the most important strategic resource and that when they do security services, an assessment of a country... space etc. infrastructures, etc. to always ask how much water is, can water be drank from the Spanish, how much water is there, etc. But I'm not sure it may be addressed to you this question but to our colleagues, but indirectly to you. What is it like in the Sinj region in rural areas that water and this... network is developed? I was recently in the Imot area you have built water pumps, and the water is gone, it's just been expressed and this is the last time the fires were. It means this to me, that there are no checks at tactical level, there are no inspections, and the battle is fought on a tactical level. You know that story, you have what you have younger... and you have statistics, statistics all cover. We have a lot of paperwork, etc. We've seen pollution in the Imot region, too, those rivers that flow through Imotsky, you have people who have those, those, tanks they let in in the water lines. A maniac there joined the main water line. What kind of punishments are these? I don't know what that control is and... on a tactical level. At the same time, I think as a strategic resource, 48% of how much water goes without going back through an outdated infrastructure? That's what I'm interested in. In some countries, water is filtered after washing, etc. for agriculture, etc. For the next 10 years, water wars will be the most in the Middle East and Africa. And what's waiting for us here is if we don't know how to manage the resource. Does Mr. Bulj, in your opinion, Croatian Government have a strategic plan to protect us from these threats for the next 10 years minimum?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63441	You're accurate, Mr. Glasnović, for a second. Thank you very much. Mr. Bull will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63442	I'd just answer basically here I was in the Cetina region having villages where there's no water supply, and people looking at Cetina can throw themselves at the river Cetina. Here we have recently met together in Lishani in Ravni Kotari, where the area also has no water supply. So who's gonna live here? We have resources and potentials that we don't use and of course, which is why we don't have a demographic recovery in these areas. So imagine in the 21st century people have their eyes in front of them looking at the river Cetina or in the Ravni Kotars almost the entire Straight Kotars have no water supply. The head of the municipality says that people just run away for those reasons. And we have all these potentials. As regards water protection, resources, as the most important strategic resource of the Republic of Croatia, we have one of the cleanest drinking waters, we have drinking water, which is very important. I don't see that the Ministry of Environment and the Croatian Government has any strategy here other than investment interests strategies that will do more damage. I'm not talking about investors' investments, I'm talking about doing more damage to our strategic resources than it's gonna do to us. You'll bring us pollution technology by the river. Like, for example. The thermal power plant. But it's a good push from Minister Buric's husband. Therefore, it is such a strategy they have, who is closer to the authorities, it pushes it and it is exclusively lobbying family management of our strategic resources, not strategical thinking and preservation of ecological sustainable development in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and, above all, water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63443	Thank you very much. We continue with individual debates. Mr. Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63444	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. So here, listening to a few today, here's three hours we're already discussing space. who occupy the water in our political life. It was more of a theme debate on water than really a debate on two important laws, the Water Law and the financing of the water economy, and I'm sorry that my colleague is leaving because after he's protected everyone in Croatia today at three o'clock, and what he's walking and sleeping, which is lying and driving, all the worse, mountains, seas and water is simply asking whether this Parliament should make any other decision from what we have and that he is the protector of the Croatian people of St. Because the fact is that it is enough for him to rise up and say something and everything is protected without looking at the law, without saying anything that is important and anything with a goal of connecting someone with something or other processes. These are indeed two important laws and very clearly define what they bring from some newspapers that no one has said too much about. This Water Economy Financing Act is important for local self-government units, and if someone gives us 100 percent more than what we have received now, at least from that fee it should be supported because it will allow us to have more resources to do something with these funds. What's he bringing us? It brings us to the point of taking over Directive 2000/60/EC, which means that, apart from the reimbursement of costs by services, we also have a return from water activities. We have the introduction of correctional water compensation coefficients for those economic operators who have built their own systems and correspond these systems to the level needed and that is very correct for the economy. Why we don't want to say it, but we're making up a hundred reasons just to talk about something and not want to say it, so we're helping the economy through this way. I've already said an increase in local self-government revenue from the water treatment fee from 5 to 10% as we've been getting so far, from 5 to 10%. We have a payment exemption for basic disasters, we add disaster. Well, it's been unfair and so far that we're sending compensation to those who are flooded for the calculation of pouring water, so I think if it's not good enough or some better part of what we've had so far, then there's a question of what we can come up with in this sector at all and it would fit any of us here under our own terms or under some of our own explanations, we're protecting Croatian citizens. This is a direct contribution to Croatian citizens and certainly part of the economy, part. What else is positive? It is positive that when we talk, we really talk about the law and we all keep mentioning citizens that we are also citing their application of dissatisfaction, and there is no need to run away from Croatia's running somewhere not making what is planned or planned in that year for years. We all have some observations, especially about this pooling of water, which includes means through the surface of a certain facility, and we're all paying for something, and we're asking for everything to be right next to our house, at least next to ours if not next door. And, of course, that's where the state has to react again. I come from an island that has many and too many water streams, there are islands that have none but many and too many. It's simply not easy to maintain this system of ten kilometers of waterways that used to be used long ago as well as streams, but they stayed for this time, not yet built during our country, and it's not abnormal for us, or it's normal for us to flood an island and we know it's at sea, but it's also happening in history if we remember, floods on the island. They happen to us on the continent, they happen to us in bigger cities. Simply, the system needs a certain level of resources to be better. In addition to the compensation for water management, Water Protection Foundations, Water Contribution, etc. so we must have a basis on which to finance Croatian waters as an agency, a government agency that should deal with the whole problem of Croatia in terms of water supply, in terms of disposal and regulated areas. What bothers me personally is that we started a few years ago during the government of Zoran Milanovic and SDP, which has some very serious objections here with a story about water economic areas where we ordered local self-government to establish now two municipal companies, that our municipality has two municipal companies. One deals with draining, other water supply or other activities, and we now have nearly a thousand utility companies instead of some 500 utility companies. Many in the drain system are almost non-prespective, barely maintained, barely able to function. And if there were no Croatian Water Agency, the question is what would be done in the first place by all these infrastructures they need. This is a question that we need to finish what we want with it, by taking something away from us in terms of activity and where it has been leading us for some time. Indeed, there is a certain problem at the level of local self-government. And can we bear as local self-government one such fact that we have two municipal societies in municipalities I don't know a thousand, 2,000 inhabitants and we know that we had experience and we could function within one and that was a few years. Okay, that's what the state will tell us at a given time. So I would again like to appeal to colleagues who are against this law to think carefully about why they are against it and what makes this law a thing for Croatian citizens to be against. I claim that it is responsible for both local self-government and citizens and entrepreneurs and that there are good elements that can be upgraded in the future only for the better. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63445	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. But before I would like to welcome the Chamber of Music School Ivan Matečić Ronjgov from Rijeka who won the Croatian competition today in Zagreb and won the first prize, so please give them a round of applause. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Thank you. Two replicas. Mr. Bacic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have cited many reasons why this proposal should be supported by amendments and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act. I would add another one that is also very important, which is the fact that from 1 January 2018 it will not enter into force a provision requiring the payment of water charges on the basis of the water involved at the stations, but will continue to extend the way in which the water charges are calculated and paid on the basis of the water delivered. This is, in any case, sufficient reason for us to adopt this law, because in the event of a non-admission of the law, there would then be a significant increase in the price of water because water losses would burden the water price of the supplied meter with a cubic or spatial meter of water. So one of the important reasons why it is necessary to pass the law is so as not to result in an increase in water prices and that element. And in any event support this proposal to establish a way and method through the regulation and how and in any way future to address the problem of major losses in the networks of urban and municipal enterprises that according to current indicators are at around 50% and 49.7 or 8%, respectively, are less water delivered than it is affected. It is therefore necessary to enter major investments in repairing the networks in order to reduce the losses, and thus clearly less, draw less water and thus protect and protect Croatian water springs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63447	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. Reply, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63448	Thus, Bačić dropped it himself means that this is also an important moment in favour of Croatian citizens because it is the fact that this will take effect in 2018. If we hadn't changed this law, Croatian citizens would have been burdened by at least 40% higher bills if they had calculated that we would have paid all the water involved at the source and what was delivered to the citizens in full. We are all aware that there are problems under the supply networks, that there are losses and regulations to be welcomed that will solve some sort of correctional coefficients of the differences that arise between the water loss and the really delivered water to households or households is something that will allow citizens not to collect the water price itself. Those who are against it mean against the law are probably not even interested in them. They are discussing it in one way, in such a way as to volunteer, and given the responsibility they are wearing, they are likely to find the matter acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63449	Another replica, Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There are few countries in Europe that drink water from taps, that is Croatia. We have as much as we can criticise, still healthy and clean water on the occasion of how we had purification systems. We see how we have entered Europe to make more purifiers in all cities and thank God. So we need to reconstruct, make more water nets, and get it done, and then we can charge water at the source. There would be no loss of these 45, 50%. I know it's a big job and it's been a process for 10 years, certainly more. But I think with the water we should be satisfied. Why is the opposition against this law you just quoted? They're always against it. It is popular here if you are in opposition to being against, although I would prefer that the opposition sometimes points to mistakes that are not good, and what is good to say is good that this people would motivate you to believe in us and parliamentary representatives, both in the state, and in the government and no matter who is in power, let's talk a little bit more about good, not bad. And so we simply have to send a different picture to the people that it's not all as bad as we keep saying something's wrong. Therefore, we must stand up a little by ourselves and realize that we are in the Parliament to help the people, not just to work for our own interests or our own parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63451	Thank you, too. Answer Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63452	Thank you very much. I agree with you. Indeed, this is one reason why we have to think when we talk about something, and I don't want to believe that even on the side of the opposition, no matter what they're against the law, they want citizens to pay 40% or 50% higher water prices in the next period, if we don't pass this law. And I guess that's clear to everyone. And now I'm saying, if we heard something today at 3:00 a.m. debate worth discussing in terms of a different proposal, that it would be a new measure, that it would be something, it was just a criticism of everything about water, on the subject of water, one thematic debate, and mostly with the desire of some to connect it to some political structures again, and then we're developing a story about the privatisation of HEP, etc. I didn't say that today, but here's all of us sitting here, let's say, last year at this time somewhere when we were talking about the arbitration we lost with INA MOL was one of the representatives of the Mosta at that press conference. What's changed? The bridge is no longer in power, and then everything became a problem. They're offering solutions they don't have and we're criticizing the government. This law is good. It helps local self-government and leaves citizens with equal bills so they won't collect what would add up if we didn't adopt this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63453	Thank you very much. We continue with individual debates. Mr. Pernar. Here you go. No, no. It's unique, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63454	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the serious problem in our society is to privatise public goods even though some privatisation of water resources or, say, what HDZ has done with the concession law has allowed even the privatisation of beaches or to limit access to all those who have not met the conditions that the concessionary has given them. For example. concessionaires charge entrances to the beach, this can happen tomorrow on rivers and lakes, etc. What was once public good today is going to become private to its own, and many people see the problem. However, I would like to point out one worrying thought, which is that privatisation of public goods is not the cause of the problem, although people see it as a cause of their problems, privatisation of public goods is the result of privatisation of money, the result of privatisation of the monetary system. In fact, it would normally be in every country that the state that broadcasts money because the state has a monopoly over its production, but although the state technically produces it, let's put it more vividly this way, even though the state technically or central bank of the CNB in our case has the right to say, I want it to print so much and so much money, that money is not printed under 1) at all in Croatia but in Germany and Austria as far as the banknotes are concerned, and under number 2) in circulation, that money cannot go through the will of the state but only private banks. If private banks don't issue loans, they'll never get into circulation. Why? Because the CNB cannot simply give the state money because it is forbidden by the National Bank Act to finance directly from the central bank. That's why the state and everyone else can only be financed indirectly, it's through private banks. So private banks in Croatia are those who control the amount of money in circulation, how much money they will release, how much money they will withdraw. And what's going on? Through these artificially induced credit expansions and credit crises, we come to the fact that more and more citizens are bankrupt, that the state itself is bankrupt and that everything has to be sold out. Unfortunately, our people are not aware of that fact, she's not interested in it. People tell me often times what I care about what the role of a central bank is, they care that they have money in their wallet, and they don't realize that the reason they don't have money in their wallet is because the role of a central bank is what it is. So we're accepting that the CNB will be a shape-shifter to agree to what's-his-name. Kunska silage and credit crisis and, of course, unrealistic exchange rate, production breakdown, high unemployment, etc. But no one told the people what the consequences of this policy would be. So people are told it's good for you to have the kuna strong. Mr. Klisovic will have more purchasing power, that's what they told people. However, these promises were false because this "strong kuna" has led Croatia to bankruptcy, has led the manufacturing sector to collapse, has led to mass unemployment, has made the country dependent on a foreign source of money or on foreign loans. And then what happens? Ha what happens is that you need to privatise HEP, hydropower plants, that you need to privatise water companies, that you need to privatise, that the caricure tomorrow will be Croatian airlines, it will be Croatia's lottery yesterday or the day after that, etc. So the system goes to privatize everything, people will no longer be able to go to the beach if they don't pay for the ticket and we will simply become foreigners in our own country, and ultimately you see for yourself who controls certain sectors of our society, banking sector, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals etc., etc. They sold everything and, of course, the profit goes out. The INA workers used to work for 5.5 thousand kunas or 6 people today work for 3.5, it's called privatisation in practice. Why? So because Hungary wants to make a profit, Hungary wants to draw money. Once you could go to the beach for free, let's just say I was near Zadar in Biograd, and ladies and gentlemen are willing to pay, you won't pay for no swimming. Now people have said in the elections we support this policy, we will vote for HDZ, Milan Bandic, SDP, HNS, etc., but once they start to taste the gifts of that policy, the policies of the disenfranchisement of the state and the people from their capital, the politics of migration, the policies of dissuades etc. Then they say we like it. However, they still refuse to see who is the only one who resists this policy not only in that, I would dare say, the most elemental sense. What does it mean to be more elementary? So let's say tomorrow in Zagreb there will be a delicacy at ten o'clock, a man flying out of his apartment due to a loan from the Zagreb Bank. And then people will say, "Well, gentlemen of the Living Wall, why are you intruding from that dissection?" And why are we disrupting the detachment? So we're distracting because we want to point out a higher problem, it's not a problem at all, it's not a point in decommissioning, the problem is that credits in a global sense or at a state level cannot be returned and that there are more and more people who are going to suffer. That's why the state suffers. So you should tell the citizens out loud, ladies and gentlemen, HEP is being sold because we have nowhere to get the loans back from. Because what happens often would mean to place the SDP and fake thesis, and the fake thesis is about like this, we sell some hotel complex because it's not operational, so when we sell it to a foreigner then it'll be in function, generate profit or people will work, etc., but then when you ask them why you want to sell HEP that brings two billion and 200 million kunas to the state net every year, and then there's no rational answer. So the state doesn't just sell losers, the state sells and wins the profit. So, the state systematically slaughters golden chickens and, of course, will ultimately lead to, I would dare say, a breakdown. Here's an example of a specific one. So, tomorrow's raid 10 hours Black Road, the Gracanin family failed to repay 40,000 euros in credit and therefore in the middle of winter, watch out for the day after St. Nicole's waiting for a raid because the house was sold at the auction. It's the policy of this government, deja tion. And I wonder how many more people have to be decommissioned, how many more beaches have to be closed to customers who don't want to pay for the ticket, how many more public companies have to be sold, how many more people have to be blocked to get the awareness of the citizens out of this, I would dare say, drowsiness, the indifference of a general mental disorganization, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63455	Mr. Pernar, I can't say anything, but you mentioned water once, so we can't say anything. Mr. Misic, I guess that's what he's trying to give you a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63456	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be brief, I won't be long. My colleague Pernar says why printing money, why we borrow in the state, why loans, why this, why it, why citizens don't have money, why workers don't have money. I'm asking a question. How much work do you have?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63457	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63458	Okay. How much do we spend more than we make? That's why the state has to cover the costs, Mr. Pernar. How many salaries do some people have that don't deserve and do politics? How much money do you get out of this, off your salary? Why didn't we pay the bill we were at the Antunović Hotel a year and a half ago, the Living Wall? The question is whether we're serious or whether we're doing it right. It's a matter of responsibility, not just talking here in front of the Parliament and telling the people and lying to the people, and that's the easiest thing to do. What have we given this country, I'm asking you a question? Will I give this country in 20, 30 years? I worked for 41 years, Mr. Pernar, and then I entered the Parliament. I haven't spoken in 20 years, spoken and charged any government for 25 years. I paid this country 41 years of work without politics, and I've never been in politics. Therefore, they cannot afford to spit so much at something that must be done, loans must be raised to ensure that the costs of certain people and certain costs we have made are settled. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63459	Thank you very much. Let's move on. ... Mr. Pernar, I allow you. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63460	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63461	Please. There you go, even though you didn't tell me. And I need you to tell me, not Mr. Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63462	Thank you. Right, I got confused. I told him I'd answer in his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63463	Because that whole conversation you could have had since you were sitting close to the whole conversation you could have had like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63464	Well, I'll tell you the truth, Mr. Mouse. I don't have a lot of work. Here's an honest answer to your question. However, I had one thought that I wanted to show you. You said that the state is raising loans because it's living above the possibility. However, in a financial system where all money is due, this means that all transport of goods and services takes place on credit. So there's no money. So if you Mr. Misic, for example, have a salary I caricate 5 thousand kunas and that salary and that you spend only 10 kunas a month on life and those 10 kunas or those 5 thousand kunas, it's a debt because the money is a debt, so the money base is a loan. If there's no credit, there's no money. What does that mean? That means all the money in my wallet that I have right now, all the money I have 200 I don't know, 400 kuna, that's all credit. So someone had to take out a loan to make this money come out. So it's not a loan company because it lives beyond its means but because money is defined as debt. On this topic there is an animated American film called "American Dream", you can go to You Tubes look at it, it will be clear to you and he wrote Larry Harrigan in 1971 the book "I Want Earth Plus 5%". The same problem was explained in that book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63465	I thank all those who didn't lift the bat for hurting the Rules of Procedure so we can move on. Mr. Mario Shiljeg, on behalf of the Proposer, has the right to the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63466	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs! Here, after discussing this Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act on behalf of the promoters, I can say that I have listened to with my workers with satisfaction all your additional proposals as well as the amendments that we have already received, and I must point out that these amendments will be considered further and I can now say that some of these amendments will at least be amended. A colleague Boric and counterpart Bačić briefly accepted very well ten minutes ago and summed up all the advantages of this law that is here before you today. I would just like to emphasise one more fact and repeat another fact that today is exactly 25 days until the suspension of the temporary billing for water use, which means 25 days from now our citizens across the Republic of Croatia would be faced with an enormous increase in the price of water unless the price of water would be stopped or protected through this law. This law lays down the adoption within three months of the Regulation in respect of the aid for the use of water, the corrective coefficients which will be different for individual water service suppliers shall be defined. Those who have greater losses will be forced by the height of their correction factor to have a certain increase in water prices, which will force them to implement the necessary measures to reduce losses, and those who already have, or at that time, who will have fewer water losses in their system will be rewarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63467	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63468	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the financing of the water economy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 238. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, the HNS Representatives' Club Liberal Democrats and MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Honored Mario Šiljeg and we start with the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63469	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament for the reason that the weekly funding of units of local self-government according to Croatian waters is a model of cash flow collected for water management for some time, more specifically 12 years. The model proved functional and successful. However, the change in the model is required that the allocation of the water treatment compensation is raised from one week to 30 days would be a blow to the liquidity of Croatian waters, as they carry out their payments within a shorter period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63470	Anybody from the Department of Agriculture, excuse me from the Agriculture Committee. If not, then we must vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to the 2nd Amendment, this is the Club of HNS Representatives, Liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63471	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendments in part in the modified form. In part, the bill promoter accepted the amendment of the HNS Liberal Democrats Club and the amended form, which will read: ‘In Article 7 amending Article 12 of the Law, paragraph 1 behind subparagraph 2 is added, which reads co-financing of the costs of the rescue of the glider and the slopes resulting from the effects of erosion and floods at risk of public infrastructure. Article 3 is replaced by the following: Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63472	Please welcome fellow Batinic, on behalf of the HNS club Liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63473	Thank you very much. The Club of Representatives accepts, we accept amended because the practical intensity and intent is the same and the result certainly of these supplements will be that one constant source of income will be provided precisely for the recovery of the damage caused by the slides. Now the game of words whether the rainwaters or erosion are in the principle of erosion are the product of the rainwaters. Thank you, we accept amendments or amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63474	Thank you. Then I find that the amended amendments have become an integral part of the law. And let's go to the last amendment, the respected colleague of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63475	Thank you very much. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment of Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Explanation. The local self-government unit shall be the sole legal investor of the coastal drain structure within the meaning of Article 125(2). Water law. In accordance with the newly proposed paragraph 3 of the same Article of the Water Act, local self-government authorities shall be authorised to transfer directly the tasks of the construction project management, the structure referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article to the public water service supplier and, subject to its consent, if it meets the conditions laid down in the rules on operations and activities in spatial planning and construction. In this sense, the investor of the construction of the coastal part of the former mixed sewerage is a unit of local self-government but may also be a public water service provider on its behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63476	My colleague Hajdukovic, I see he is gone, and then we must vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. So let's move on to a vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 24 abstentions and 17 votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63477	We have two laws of urgency that I suggest they be united because it's the same theme. Now I'm going to read the titles of those laws. One is: - The final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual protection of classified data, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 234 Interesting subject as you can see. And the other one's interesting, too. - Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania not on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 230 Now what I'm going to read is common to both laws. It's an emergency procedure. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 72 and 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate referred to in Article 197. Rules of Procedure. Two committees held a hearing. For legislation and for internal policy and national security. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Juro Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63478	Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I am on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia I will briefly explain to you both these Government proposals of these laws. So, legally speaking, we are in the matter of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which regulates this material in the section of the Constitution that speaks of international contracts. It is regulated there who on behalf of the Republic of Croatia can enter into international contracts, what their effects are, how they are ratified and when they are considered to be included in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And so the second legal act, the law that regulates this matter, is the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. Therefore, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law attesting the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual protection of qualifying data is contained in the provision of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The need for an international exchange of information or material classified or marked by national legislation is in principle an expression of close foreign-political relations between countries, and on the other hand the need for mutually and coherent action to address contemporary particularly security problems that often exceed national frameworks with their scale and complexity. The international exchange and protection of classified data is also covered by certain laws governing certain areas of the work of the state administration, for example. The Act on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, etc. During 2007, laws have been adopted in the field of information security ensuring the application of the necessary measures and standards in the exchange of classified data between the Republic of Croatia and other countries and organisations and have been initiated with procedures for the conclusion of international contracts replacing and protecting classified data between the Republic of Croatia and other countries and organisations. Sub-legislative acts adopted under the laws governing the information security area have established professional standards for the proper complete management of the protection of classified data both internally and internationally. The co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of the exchange of classified data is constantly increasing, and is based on common interests in the development of relations between the two countries in the field of information security as well as other areas of interstate cooperation. Following this, since laws governing the protection of classified data in the Republic of Croatia were adopted during 2007 it was assessed that there is a need to regulate cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of data protection by concluding a bilateral international contract. Until the conclusion and entry into force of a double international contract which fully regulates the area of protection of classified data, the initial framework for the achievement of mutual cooperation was established by an agreement between the Office of the National Security Council of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Secret Information Protection Sector relating to the Exchange and Protection of Classified Data concluded by the Exchange of Letters of 19 November 2012 and 22 November 2012 as an international act which preceded the conclusion of this Treaty which I now certify by law, which regulated the exchange and protection of classified data of the lowest level of secrecy ‘limited’. The Agreement entered into force on the date of receipt of letters of response from the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts of an international act under the said agreement provides for bilateral cooperation under which the Office of the National Security Council has carried out a number of educational activities in the period from 2012 to 2015, which have enabled the other parties to carry out appropriate complementarity of national regulatory and procedural procedures, in particular in the most sensitive segment of security checks. An analysis of the sub-legislative and implementing acts adopted in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the post-2012 period and further review of the procedures at these working meetings concluded that the process of supplementing the national regulatory and procedural procedures in Bosnia and Herzegovina carried out in the post-2012 period can guarantee the necessary consistency of the security checks, issued security certificates of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the application of the necessary safety standards. In accordance with the resolutions and standards set out in those regulations, the contract between the Government of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual protection of classified data in the relations between the Republic of Croatia and BiH was signed in Sarajevo on 7 July 2017, establishing rules for the mutual protection of classified data relating to all future cooperation contracts and classified contracts concluded by the Contracting Parties, which contain or include classified data. The basic issues proposed to be regulated by this law shall be confirmed by the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the mutual protection of classified data in order to ensure that its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Treaty lays down an international legal framework for the protection of classified data common to be created or exchanged between Contracting Parties, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract shall be designated, equivalent degrees of secrecy shall be determined, treatment of classified data, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, mechanisms for the transmission of such data. Specific provisions on classified contracts are contained. The way in which visits and meetings of experts are carried out is regulated, in the event of a security breach, as well as issues of costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The basis for the adoption of this law under emergency procedure is set out in Article 204(1). Croatian Parliament in other particularly justified state reasons. In view of the reasons set out in points 2 and 3 of this proposal as well as the fact that the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual protection of classified data is an important mechanism for the achievement of information security protection and for the protection of classified data exchanged between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is estimated that there is an interest that the Republic of Croatia should conclude its internal legal order as soon as possible in order to create assumptions that the contract in accordance with its provisions in relations between the two countries enter into force. In view of the nature of the procedure which the state also formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the text of the international treaty cannot be changed or supplemented, it is proposed that this proposal of the law be discussed and accepted by an urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. Dear MPs and MPs, therefore, this is one of Parliament's affairs, so the Croatian Parliament. This is one model of control of the legislative authority, executive authority. I've had so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63479	Thank you very much. You have one replica, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63480	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Secretary of State Martinovic. Thank you for presenting this law. To be clear, this is not a law between, which regulates the exchange of data only between intelligence services, police, etc. but a wide range of state authorities who need to exchange classified data and that's good. But my question is whether there is infrastructure in all state bodies that need to exchange such data in Croatia, is there such infrastructure in BiH? Why? Because once Croatia gives classified data to Bosnia and Herzegovina if they are not in a certain way protected by any communication, either in the management of that data when they reach the Bosnia and Herzegovina area, then they can be compromised. So, what I'm saying about Bosnia, I'm talking about Croatia. Does Croatia also have a sufficiently high quality system for protecting classified data and exchange channels with BiH in various segments of the work of the executive and other state authorities that need to exchange data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63481	Thank you, too. Mr. Martinovic has the right to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63482	Dear Representative Klisovic, therefore this is the legislative framework that has been being prepared as you have heard from this opening presentation for almost ten years. Whether everything was perfectly adjusted so that both sides could spot it in all segments, that's one real question that no one can answer. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina have decided to conclude in this matter a contract that will narrow down the possibility of these classified data being made available to those who cannot be made available. And I am convinced that our party is quite sure to implement this contract as soon as it enters, so as soon as we implement it in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and that will be after the Croatian Parliament has confirmed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63483	Thank you very much. And now again, Mr. Klisovic on behalf of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63484	Thank you very much, Vice President. I once again welcome Mr. Secretary of State. So, this is not the first contract to come to ratification in the Croatian Parliament and the SDP club will support it as well as the previous contracts, because we believe that any regulated state or which wants to be arranged must have this kind of contract and that classified information cannot simply come out of state bodies, and even less than that be the subject of goods on some underground market. In our history we have had such situations and I think it is bad and actually shows how far away we are from that degree of order of the Croatian state we would like to have. And if we have to share data with countries that share the same values as we do and that can help Croatia ensure its national and national security, it is probably clear to everyone because without something so simple in today's globalised world you cannot provide a satisfactory degree of security. Not only do we do it as bilaterally as in this case, so with a contract like this, we do it in the framework of multilateral organisations whether it's about the European Union, NATO, you simply protect yourself or ensure that you are safe because you simply cannot secure it in isolation. The question I asked you is I know the answer to it, but I only wanted to encourage once again as a replica of the importance of investment in infrastructure because otherwise we will have laws that are not enforceable. I don't think that's good. You older than me must remember, and in the former state we had a tremendous amount of law and a lot of rights divided into citizens who were not enforceable. So, that's bad. I advocate that we have laws that will allow for full implementation in the full sense of the words of each article, each letter of the law, because otherwise they turn into only one political pamphlet. Now, we don't need that, the rule of law doesn't work that way, and if Croatia wants to become in the fullest sense, the rule of law must always go into defining its obligations, procedures and the management of classification data from how much it can really apply the legal solutions that they bring because no one else brings them to us, we bring them ourselves. Therefore, it is very important when the budget is adopted that all state authorities have a need to share information with other state bodies, other states and international organisations and to ensure adequate funding for these state bodies, for their equipment, and for the training of the staff who manages these information and who is responsible for them. Because I'm saying, unfortunately, we have too many cases and experiences when classified data came out of state bodies, when they ended up on so-called. the para-intelligence underground market, when they were the subject of buying on that market, which certainly discredits the Croatian state and makes it untrustworthy of the partners with whom we have to share the data. It is not that we are the only ones in the international community who are natural but I am interested in the situation with us and others will take care of the situation in their countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63485	Thank you. We don't have a replica. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Mikulić and Mr Raguž. Mr. Mikulić will begin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63486	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Honorable Secretary of State Martinovic, honourable parliamentary deputies! The bill we are discussing today is very important for the Republic of Croatia, for its security and foreign policy and foreign political relations, and therefore it is necessary to put a certain context on its adoption as well as the contract itself which is its basis. The Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Lithuania have extremely good relations with each other whose processes begin and symbolize the date of 30 July 1991 when Lithuania itself was internationally unrecognized as one of the first countries internationally recognised Croatia. From that date on, bilateral relations between the two countries have developed over the years and have progressed more and more. Although in geographical terms these two countries are not close to their interests in many areas and areas. These common interests have been expressed in establishing cooperation on several occasions and at several levels. For example, one area of common interest is energy independence as one of the pillars of political stability and economy. In addition to energy, the priority of both countries is strengthening and co-operation in the field of transport and it is certainly worth mentioning and cooperation in the military field. As stated in the proposal for a law, the need for an international exchange of information or material marked by one degree of secrecy is an expression of close external political relations, and this is also an expression of the increased need for mutually coordinated action to address modern security problems. It is clear that the closeness of foreign political relations between Croatia and Lithuania is unquestionable and since this co-operation is political, economic and military relevant, it certainly requires a security dimension of support and protection. Finally, the co-operation between the two countries in the exchange of classified data is on a steady rise and this type of cooperation is based on common interests and the development of relations between the two countries in the field of information security. In 2007, laws have been passed that regulate the protection of classified data in the Republic of Croatia. In view of this and all of the above, the assessment has been made that there is a need to regulate cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Lithuania in the field of the protection of classified data through the conclusion of a bilateral international contract. The Treaty on the Protection of Classified Data was a logical and even necessary step and the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty allows its provisions to become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This Treaty lays down a set of rules governing the mutual protection of classified data created or exchanged in the course of the cooperation of the two parties, harmonizes with the classifications of degrees of secrecy and determines the national security authorities of both parties, where this is the Office of the National Security Council for the Republic of Croatia. In addition, a measure for the protection of classified data shall be laid down, the way they are transferred as well as the multiplication or destruction. The Treaty itself was signed in Vilnius on 17 July 2017 and in Zagreb on 27 July 2017. The signing of a contract on mutual protection of classified data and the adoption of a law on its validation has a double meaning. It represents a kind of epilogue of excellent relations between the two countries, while at the same time marking the beginning of a new period in their further development. Of course and equally important this contract allows the Republic of Croatia to provide more significant and concrete security related to the protection of its own classified data. Accordingly, such a valuable contribution to the foreign-political perspective of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63487	Yes, Mr. Ragug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63488	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. As the secretary of state stated in his address all the basic elements of the law that we are talking about, so his constitutional basis, objectives, the framework, the need for urgency of the procedure. I will only look back on the importance of this law within the framework of the relations between the Republic of Croatia and BiH. Namely, the law confirming the Treaty on the mutual exchange of classified data between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina was signed in Sarajevo on 7 July 2017 at the second joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina when several other contracts, protocols, memoranda, agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina were signed. It was therefore the second session since the first joint session between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which took place in Split in 2010. This contract will certainly contribute to the development of better external and political relations between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is very important that what counterpart Klisovic stressed is how ready the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and BiH are to implement all security challenges and the nature of the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and Croatia, especially because it is an area in addition to a number of other areas and areas of security challenges faced by BiH due to a number of political influences that seek to be realised through BiH due to conflict potential among the peoples in BiH, due to a series of outstanding issues between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. But regardless of all these obstacles, it is important that the Republic of Croatia shows an interest in the nature of relations in BiH, especially because of the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The HDZ Club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63489	Thank you very much. We only have one replica. Mr. Paric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I actually have a little more of a question than a replica. As far as I am aware, we now legally define the exchange of classified information between the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. My question is, how have we done it so far? The second question is, if we define it by law now, it means establishing a system that should enable the exchange of information on who will in fact, who in Croatia will be responsible for the implementation and supervision of the complete system. Is this the Central State Office for Digital Croatia, is that e-Croatia, is that UVNS? And who will even be responsible for the complete system of information leaks, security information and on the basis of the question of counterpart Klisovic at which stage he is now, in which phase we are in the implementation phase of the start or whatever you want of that system and whether he is compatible between different ministries. That's it. Otherwise I see that fellow Martinovic has behind, so de facto replicas more to you than colleagues before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63491	Okay. I give the final word to Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63492	Representatives and MPs, so here were a few questions. Gentlemen, we are here in the sphere where this contract is ratified, it's signed, prepared long for your question. Therefore, there is a framework agreement for this area which was in force before the signing of the contract and applied. So now we've signed the contract in the seventh month. We ratify it here, confirm yes or no. Therefore, the contract cannot be entered into its standards and its provisions. We can accept it here or we can't accept it. It's atypical law. So, colleague Klisovic and your government in which you were in foreign affairs took part in the preparation of this contract. So it's the law. I hope at least the lawyers get along here. So the fact that we are not 100% potentially in some segments prepared in technical terms is not the reason why this matter is not regulated. We simply have with all the countries with which we have relations where this data is exchanged, we need to edit this matter and it is being arranged by this contract, and the Government proposes that this contract be confirmed by Parliament and that it enters the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. As for whoever is going to enforce that law, who's going to be responsible, so that's the Office of the National Security Council. So they're the ones who'll make sure that this law is implemented exactly the way it is, and the contract regulates a lot of what and when who does it. But it's this office.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63493	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. First Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63494	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I know very well what the intensity of this law is and how international contracts are ratified and what the Parliament needs to do. But what we wanted, and I believe, is to point out in particular when such significant laws are passed and contracts ratify that there is a need for parallel care and that the infrastructure for their implementation is consistently being built in the Republic of Croatia and that is why I mentioned the state budget. It should be insisted with many other things that are important to secure resources in the state budget and for these things. The UVNS does not participate in the talks on the state budget. The Ministry of Justice participates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and others participates. So we ourselves need to look not only at the narrow interests of our ministry and provide funds for our ministry, but also for these broader joint projects because they are very important to us. You know, in Croatia, to say in the past time, it has happened that I can communicate with NATO through a protected system, because Croatia has taken over NATO's system and simply all the standards that go along with it, including procedures. And if you weren't able to do that with your colleagues in the MUP because they have one system closed to classification data, and we in foreign affairs have another system. So two systems completely incompatible in one government. It can't change overnight, but it's something that we need to systematically work on so that these contracts that we have on the agenda today can function in full of their fullness. So that's why we raised these questions, or raised them here in the Parliament, just once again, to warn the executive authority that all state security systems must be compatible, to be well equipped, to ensure that these equipment is sophisticated and that time and technological development is monitored and that people working on it are educated. Very often these are people we don't know about. In the systematization of jobs are not their names and then you don't know who's responsible for what, and they don't have the education they should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63495	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63496	A colleague... So of course you realized that I didn't support you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just told you that I understand, and I understand that you know the matter you're talking about, but you're assuming that things aren't ready for implementation. So, even if you were right this law is needed and we need it, we actually need a contract to have and Parliament needs to confirm it. But I have no information, however, I have information that we are at a high level of preparedness on our part to implement, and that the other side has achieved a high level of willingness to implement this contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63497	Mr. Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63498	I won't be long. My colleague Klisovic and I are just covering two different sides of the same law. I think from his presentation and our replicas it is unquestionable in principle that we will support the implementation of such a law because it is definitely necessary. What I was interested in was, in principle, the technical implementation of the law itself and who was responsible for it. When you say UVNS well, it's logical, knowing the people who work there, I think it'll go well. Only a small remark to you. I think you should have been a little bit more informed about the very phase of where we are. Maybe there should even be someone from the UVS with you? But okay. I'm more or less happy with what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63499	Thank you very much. I'm concluding the discussion of these united laws number 234 and 230. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63500	Final draft law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 234. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual protection of classified data, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 123 votes for and 1 abstentions, have been passed by the Law confirming the contract between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on mutual protection of classified data.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63525	Now the latest law - Proposal for a law on the protection of undiscovered knowledge and experience and business information, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 225 means the title is causing a bit of a misunderstanding in me, but I guess he'll explain it to us now? The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Does the Proposer want a representative? Mr. Mako Glunčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education has an introductory word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63526	Thank you. So, the Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable MPs and MPs. It is a proposal for a law on the protection of undiscovered knowledge and experience and business information. Therefore, the proposal aims to strengthen mechanisms to promote innovation and other business-related activities. The second objective of this law is also to ensure a fair competition for the establishment of a clearer and more uniform legal framework for the protection of knowledge and experience of so-called "the European Union". know-how and other information resulting from business investments in the development of their business, which have a commercial value for reasons that are not widely available to the circles dealing with this type of information. In this way, businesses ensure a competitive advantage in the market. This proposal also aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with Directive 2016/943 of the EU European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of undiscovered knowledge and experience and business information from the illegal acquisition of use and disclosure. This Directive obliges the Member States of the European Union to lay down the relevant rules to which the Directive itself is transposed into national legislation by 9 June 2018. Something more concrete in the law. Therefore, the draft law lays down rules on civil and legal protection against the unauthorised acquisition of use or disclosure of undiscovered knowledge and experience and business information which constitute a business secret in terms of economic or commercial secrecy or professional secrecy. Following this business secret, information shall be considered as information in the context of the Directive and the proposal for a law. First, which is not generally known or easily available to persons in the circle who normally deal with this type of information. Second, they have commercial value because the secrets and third parties they own have applied appropriate reasonable procedures to keep them secret. This definition of the business secrets in question has been taken over from the International Agreement on trade aspects of intellectual property rights of 95, which is an integral part of the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation. Something about the bill itself. Therefore, in the first part of the proposal for a law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, we are transposing the already mentioned directive of the European Parliament concerning the protection of all intellectual property rights of the European Parliament relating to the protection of all intellectual property rights and determining the meaning of certain concepts in the context of the draft law. The second part of the bill determines what is considered legal and what is illegal by obtaining, using and disclosing business secrets. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to give you one example from that law. Therefore, obtaining business secrets by means of an independent discovery, observation and study of cases detected, made available to the public or in the legal possession of another person would be legally obtaining a business secret while unlawfully obtaining a business secret would be considered to be unauthorized by obtaining the same documents containing a business secret and legally controlled by the holder of business secrets. So you see that we have these three elements always in the game of business secrets. The proposal for a law also provides for certain exceptions in which the court rejects the application to implement the measures laid down in the draft law. For example, business secrets of acquisition, use or disclosure are an example for the purpose of exercising the right to freedom of expression of thought, the right to access information and freedom of expression, or to reveal failure, misdemeanour or illegal activity in order to protect public interest. The third part of the bill contains detailed provisions on the achievement of civil legal protection of the business secret in question. In this part of the bill, rules on the preservation of the confidentiality of business secrets during court proceedings as well as rules on obtaining evidence during litigation proceedings are hereby laid down who is authorised to make requests in the procedure for the protection of business secrets and which requests may be made. It shall also be regulated to comply with provisional measures which may be imposed on the grounds of unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of a business secret as well as with the provisions on urgency of conduct and provided for fines for infringements of certain measures adopted under the basic laws. Those provisions shall seek to ensure, to the greatest extent possible, that confidentiality or secrecy of matters of commercial secrecy is maintained during the court proceedings, the intention of making the business secret available as close as possible to the circle of persons with respect to the principle of equality of parties in the proceedings and to ensure that the injured party has a more rapid legal protection which is essential in this type of procedure. Finally, it is expected that the transfer of the proposed law will help reduce the risk of unauthorized procurement of the results of research and development of knowledge and experience and other valuable data that innovation firms and research organisations face in particular, as it provides for appropriate legal mechanisms for the protection of these companies. It is also expected that greater legal certainty in this area of legal protection will have positive effects on the functioning of the market in particular for the internal market of the European Union, as the harmonised clear legal framework at European Union level will contribute to a more free cross-border innovation activity, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63527	Just one question, I'm sorry. In this case, undiscovered knowledge would mean knowledge that is not yet public, which is not yet protected, not knowledge that is not yet available.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63528	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63529	Which haven't been discovered, have they?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63530	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63531	Yeah, okay. Now I get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63532	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63533	And they're not protected yet? Okay. Thank you. Knowledge and experience, because otherwise we could protect Mars or I don't know what. Thank you very much. Mr Batinić, here's your replica!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63534	Thank you, Vice President. Oh, well, my colleague Gluncic, the formulation itself, may be a little unadjusted, let's say, by our daily speech. I'm interested in one thing. For the sake of transparency of work, the body of the public authority should practically not have a business secret. And in particular, with some company, we have a contract that says "business secret" that the contract we sign with it is a business secret. This may not be a question that may arise from this bill, but it is in some way using this part of the law as it will be, so it is undiscovered and it is somehow trying to protect itself. Namely, the question is very simple. What is then done by the public authorities and calling for access to information whether the public authority can make an exception in that situation or must respect the company's wish, for example, some or something and not disclose the details of the cooperation agreement, on anything, regardless of what is now the subject of which is for the protection of the interest of the person with whom the contract or company is concluded and yet on the other hand respecting the right to process information as a public authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63535	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63536	Therefore, this law does not in principle apply to the bodies of public authorities. What you asked is regulated through other laws. So all we're talking about here is business secrets that have commercial value. This means that these are undiscovered knowledge that is not generally made public and you can use it for some commercial value, so other laws regulate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63537	Thank you very much. Would one of the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Marko Vučetic in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63538	Honorable representatives of the ministries, respected colleagues and colleagues! This bill of law Club of Representatives Bridges of Independent Lists supports. It supports for a number of reasons, but it is fundamental because of its deep awareness that the scientific and research process and any other innovative process undertaken in institutions, institutions or companies has no purpose of strengthening secrecy or of no purpose of setting up any new symbolism of the reality of the world or establishing new metaphors, but is aimed at reaching the truth. This notion of undiscovered knowledge is somewhat contrary but only seemingly with what is traditionally called truth in... So what's hidden or what's exposed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In these undiscovered knowledge, this postulate of truth is being preserved as disclosures or truths as non-discovery, which is why and how. The process of coming to knowledge and an innovative process that results in some conclusions and the public-wide results available are certainly subject to universalization and these results are available to all. However, what we should be civilised to be aware of is that I am the process, process of innovation or of coming to know or approach to the products created by the process of this knowledgeable or scientific delicacy is marked by many of its dimensions and it is a fundamental dimension to view knowledge, information as intellectual property. Knowledge is property and intellectual property is from man or subject inalienable property. In particular, when it comes to the subject, that entity can be human, can be a group of people, can be an institution and may be a company. If a third party takes illegal action to possess some information, it is about stealing and that we have entered an area and culture that does not cultivate the process of innovation and the process of coming to knowledge, and the process of intellectual power rather than fostering exactly the opposite negation. Only from intellectual impotence and deep perseverance does someone need to set up and come into possession of information that will allow him to gain financial benefit. Since the Club of Representatives of the Mosta is aware of what is happening we will be aware of the civilizational reasons and because we are aware that culture can either develop or that culture can experience its impasses we will support the proposal for this law because we cannot support the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union and all with a view to becoming a country where knowledge is appreciated, where information is valued and where knowledge products and products are valued. On the one hand, if we don't decide on a path like this, we go into an area where we're going to be exposed to many ecstasy and many giving up on the process of winning the truth and coming to the truth, for example, that's what we can call the leaders of the moment. The leaders of moments are nothing more than those who kidnap historical development or who kidnap scientific and innovation development with the aim of focusing attention on them. If you would explain this picture that has direct ties to this law in this civilized sense, say many of these leaders are currently able to possess and political positions, they are able to come into possession of both economic, financial and illegal scientific powers. If things were historically viewed by one of the leaders of the moment was, say, Napoleon who did, whose words meant nothing, whose conquests meant nothing but a historic stalemate and we don't live in a world of Napoleon today. He's the leader of a moment that doesn't mean anything, he stole the history of the possibility to develop. On the other hand, when Napoleon was acting, he wrote a philosophy professor then completely unknown, it was Emanuel Kant. Thanks to Kant and Kant's efforts and that Kant's undiscoveredness in his time, we live in civilization today, a culture that is better than that undertaken by Napoleon. It is us as a Club in this bill that we see the possibility of living in a better world, in a world that will not steal products of innovative and innovative procedure, the scientific and research process, in a world that will not be used in an illegal and illegal way both financially, scientifically and seemingly civilizedly with the results of other people's work, and because we deeply believe and represent that knowledge is the most noble property that is inseparable from the subjects and that this knowledge should be protected, we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63539	Thank you. Mr. Sagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63540	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague Vučetić, therefore, is not at large to mention a great man whose intellectual achievements or knowledge he has multiplied by sharing heritage today and without whom life would actually be unimaginable today, and this is the great man Nikola Tesla. Nikola Tesla left so many traces of humanity that it's hard to record today. However, in accordance with this law, I would like to say that I agree with you, it should be supported. A business secret, unlike patents, makes it easier to protect intellectual property. The patent, except that the patent has a time limit and, in particular, a consensual patent, does not have that time limit and it is important and I think it is written in the bill primarily because of small and medium-sized enterprises. The innovations of small and medium-sized enterprises can get this society out of a crisis. Why don't big businesses have a big level of innovation, public enterprises? Because they often perform monopolies, they have this position in society that they don't even have to have innovation, but they have everything in place. Small and medium-sized enterprises must be competitive to benefit from innovation and therefore this law is important to protect their drawing, their design, their prototype, the process of production, everything that is important for them to develop. In this regard, I welcome this legislative proposal and we hope that it will help primarily in the development of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63541	Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63542	Here's a thank you. And I'm not surprised that my colleague, Žagar, agrees with what the Advocacy Club agrees with because this isn't, so we don't need to protect this replication mechanism within the same club, but what needs to be underlined and I'm glad that you've replicated, which is that intellectual property and property that it comes to this precisely through the innovation and scientific research that results in certain products that are in favor of society that society needs both legally positive and gratefully respond. I see this law as a way of thanking society for having the opportunity to live in a culture and civilization that protects the innovation process. It may be unfortunate that this undiscovered knowledge is held and called a business secret, so many or some conclude that this business secret and this law are to exclude other laws. No, I don't. This legislative proposal is a targeted proposal that we are protecting and aimed at protecting what enables us to continue living in the world of innovation and the world that will lead to the progress of that human and more pleasant life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63543	Okay. After the mention of Kant and Tesla I think it would be unfair not to mention that the only one of the big ones who worked at the patent office was Einstein. Here you go, Mr. Falcon, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63544	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director, fellow MPs! So, as has already been said before us, the proposal for a law on the protection of undiscovered knowledge and experience of business information. In activities involving research and creative processes, important information is collected and developed, which eventually acquires considerable economic value and which often do not meet the conditions for the protection of formal intellectual property rights, those that we know as patents and the like, even though they are equally important for innovation and generally for the competitiveness of the economy. In the event of their subsequent protection of intellectual property rights, i.e. to attract financing and investment, the confidentiality of such data is required by entities such as undertakings, universities and research laboratories, and individual inventors and creators use confidentiality as the most famous form of acquisition or retention of ownership over valuable information. Such undiscovered knowledge and experience, i.e. business information which has a potential or real economic value because it is not known or easily accessible to an appropriate environment, a reduced definition, is considered to be a business secret and is the main theme of this law. Innovation firms are increasingly exposed to unfair practices aimed at unauthorized acquisition of business secrets such as theft, unauthorized multiplication, economic espionage, violation of confidentiality requirements. The existing circumstances such as globalisation, increased externalisation of business, longer supply chains and widespread use of information and communication technologies contribute to increasing the risk of such practices. Unauthorized acquisition, use and release of business secrets endangers the ability of the legal holder of a business secret to take advantage of the first bidder by using the results of his innovative efforts. Without effective and comparable means of protecting business secrets, the incentive to launch innovative cross-border activities on the European Union's internal market is reduced. It therefore discourages innovation and creativity and reduces investment which affects the smooth functioning of the common European market and reduces its growth potential. And that is why the European Union regulated this through its directives, means encouraging cross-border economic activity. The business secret falls under the most common forms of protection of intellectual creation and innovation knowledge and experience used by businesses but at the same time through the existing legislative framework, business secrecy is at the least protected in cases where it is unauthorized to obtain, use or go to third parties. So it's at least protected because already through special laws and regulations we have protected patents, stamps, etc. But business secrets this way don't, but I'll tell you about it later. Business secrets, as counterpart Žagar said, are particularly important to small and medium-sized enterprises and companies that are just beginning their activities and are of great importance to economic growth and development. Companies in the services sector whose share in the EU GDP is greater than 70% primarily rely on business secrets and less on formal forms of intellectual property that are more represented in the manufacturing sector. As we know, patents that are primarily present in the industry. Business secrets are thus recognised as an equally important instrument for protecting investment in the development of business as well as conventional intellectual property rights and it is necessary to ensure uniform protection against their illegal supply, use and detection at European Union level. To that end, the Directive has been adopted since 8 June 2016, Directive 2016/943 means that it protects actually undiscovered knowledge and experience and business information from illegal supply, use and detection. What is important is that with this Directive and this is what is actually the subject of this law not to interfere with other regulations is governed by the primary civil and legal protection of business secrets with economic value defined as an intellectual property form. What is important is that it is not only civil law protection that comes to the whole area of regulation of business secrets in a broader sense. What is important and why it is important and important to adopt this law is that there is no systematic regulation of the issue of the protection of business secrets at the level of Croatia, but through a series of regulations we have severally arranged individual institutes and individual elements of its protection, and precisely because of this improvement of this national legislation, this Directive is implemented through this law into the Croatian legal system. As far as the concept is concerned, something has been said here and we have discussed it on the Legislative Committee, according to Croatian regulations, business secrets are not only defined in terms that corresponds to the form contained in the "trade secret" directive but are much broader and includes classified business information in a broader sense. In English it would be “treasury business information” or “business secret”. Since the content of Directive 2016/943 is adapted primarily to the concept of a business secret under the provisions of this law, it would be doubtful and certain aspects would violate the concept of protecting a business secret that has been accepted as a standard in the Croatian legal system. It is important to stress that this proposal for a law therefore refers solely to business secrets with economic value as a specific form of business secrets as intellectual property. It corresponds to an economic concept that is often referred to in English as "intensible essay" or "acknowledge based capital", meaning that it is important that a narrow concept of business secret is a concept of confidential business information. So this law goes to this narrow notion of business secrets with economic value, not protecting any confidential business information, it's important to emphasize. And now, as far as the existing laws are concerned, I would mention some of them, although there are a lot of them that are partially editping it. The first is the Privacy Act. This law regulates the confidentiality of data in relation to data from the national authorities and areas of defence if data are of security interest to the Republic of Croatia. Something like what counterpart Batinic already mentioned here. The Data Securitisation Act lays down the concept of classified and unclassified data, degrees of secrecy, classification and declassification procedure, access to classified and unclassified data, their protection and supervision of the implementation of the Data Securitisation Act. Now, with regard to the regulation of the concept of secrecy and certain measures and procedures for the identification, use and protection of business and professional secrets, there is another law in force, and that is the Law on the protection of the confidentiality of information, which means in that part, and remains in force today. The definition of business secrets of content in the Data Protection Act refers to a business secret whose holder is a legal person, meaning exclusively a legal person, a commercial company, for example. And what is particularly important, it does not prescribe any legal measures to protect them and what is, in fact, the main added value of this new law. Furthermore, the protection of business secrets under civil law is partially secured and the Law on Mandatory Relations as a roof law that regulates mandatory relations primarily contracts but not only contracts but also assumptions for compensation of damages among other things. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Mandatory Relations of Business Secrets is governed by the classification of a business secret under the rights of a legal person. Unauthorized giving of a business secret to a legal person is a violation of the right of personality and may require a court or other competent authority to take measures to protect his or her rights. Protection here is limited business secret legal persons and no specific legal means are arranged which would be available except in the case of unlawful acquisition or use of a business secret other than the termination of injury and damages. So, there are no specific provisions that would regulate this except for the general one, which is the right to request, before a court in a litigation proceedings, the termination of damages and damages and the procedure itself is regulated by the Law on a litigation procedure. Furthermore, regarding licensing procedures, the Law on Mandatory Relations is further prescribed that if the subject of the licence makes up unpatent inventions or secret knowledge and experience the licensee is obliged to keep it secret. Furthermore, the Law on Trade, as one of the actions considered unfair, states the unlawful acquisition of the business secret of another trader or the unlawful exploitation of the trusted business secrets of another trader in which the case may again be a compensation for damages in the case of such prohibited actions in a court, i.e. a litigation procedure. This law also does not regulate specific measures, procedures and remedies available in the event of unlawful procurement, use or disclosure of business secrets. So this is the part about civil legal protection that is regulated by this law but much more detailed, but besides that there are many other specific laws that regulate other aspects of the protection of business secrets, these include the Penal Code, the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law on Labour, among other things, but I am not going to go into the details too much about it now, especially that I am last in line today. What is important to emphasise is that this proposed law does not interfere with the provisions of all the rules that will continue to apply, but civil legal protection of business secrets is already regulated in a more detailed and concrete way than is regulated by these laws. Now, without convincing the content of the proposal itself, which the Secretary of State has already spoken of, I would like to highlight some of the aspects that I consider most important. What is particularly important is the definition of business secrets, so this is how the rope is defined by what is in other regulations and what is considered legal acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets. It is important to stress that this law does not establish any exclusive right in respect of business secretaries and therefore an independent discovery of the same knowledge, experience or information is possible. So if someone has come up with the same knowledge and information on the other side, regardless of whose protection he's dealing with, they're entitled to something like that, and it's not protected. So there is no protection in the sense that whoever is first has the exclusive right and that no one after him has the right to use that information. Furthermore, the reverse engineering of the legally supplied product is also considered a legal way of obtaining information. So if you start with the results and actually go back you can actually reconstruct the whole process. The acquisition of business secrets in the context of the exercise of the rights of workers' representatives to inform, advise and participate in accordance with the specific regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the acquis of the European Union shall be deemed legal as well as any procurement in accordance with good business practices or where specific regulations of the Republic of Croatia or of the European Union are required or permitted as such. Furthermore, the concept of unlawful acquisition of use and disclosure of business secrets is defined in accordance with Article 4. Directive 2016/943 as stated by the State Secretary. It also states that the illegal use of a business secret is considered both to offer and provide services using a business secret. So it goes beyond just using direct business secrets than it expands and to all the benefits that can be further away from it. Also, what is particularly important is that I think it is one of the great added value of this law that the exceptions are prescribed so as not to restrict the activity of whistlers and the exercise of workers' rights to reveal their representatives according to the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and in the public interest. So that's what matters. So if an employee of a company finds it important to reveal some business secret in order to protect public interest, he has the right to do so. Of course, whether it was really for public interest or not it would determine the competent authorities in this prescribed procedure, of course it is a very important step in having such a thing explicitly prescribed in the law although it also states that there is a possible and quite broad interpretation and there will be a lot to depend on the competent authorities, courts, etc. It also determines the question of compensation for damage but more detailed than in other regulations that I have mentioned. Therefore, the conditions that the court must take into account in determining the amount of damages which is important because these conditions are actually adapted to this specific area. Also from procedural provisions, means that they actually take up most of the law is important to prescribe requirements that can be filed in litigation for the protection of business secrets. So, from the end of the injury to the damage. What is particularly important is to determine the urgency of resolving procedures for breach of business secrets. Thus, such proceedings are explicitly prescribed by law must be terminated within one year of the date of the application in the first degree and six months in the second degree. It is also necessary to take a decision on provisional measures within 30 days of the date of submission of the proposal to determine such a provisional measure. So we have, as we can see, given how it works most often or has worked very often, these are very short deadlines, and I hope that in practice such application of the law and live to see these processes resolved in an emergency procedure. That urgency of the procedure should also be determined in the interests of compliance with the provision of Article 3. Directive 2004/48. In all, at the end of the HDZ Club, it believes that this law is necessary, that it will improve the regulation of this area, reduce legal certainty and certainly supports it with certain necessary nomotechnical and termnological finishings. So, on the Legislative Committee, we had a very broad and thorough debate on this because there was a problem of passing on some institutes, perhaps originally conceived in English, which do not correspond fully to the concepts of our existing laws, and certain suggestions were given in the conclusion of the Committee on how to improve this, and we hope that this will indeed be so until the second reading. But in any case, we support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63545	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, both inside the bench. First, Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63546	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Comrade Sokol, I will only refer to this very last part of your debate in which you have spoken again, so you reiterated the purpose of this law and that is, above all, a detailed regulation of measures against illegal procurement, against the use of and then the sharing of business secrets that have an economic value as a specific form of intellectual property. So now that you connect that concept of business secrets as a specific form of intellectual property, as the essence of this law, and when you associate it with the name of the law where we got it as a proposal for a law on the protection of undiscovered knowledge, experiences, etc. And indeed here I have a need to return, to remind a little bit of the discussion from the board, and what you have mentioned, and finally on that trail was also the vice president at the beginning with the question of what undiscovered knowledge. Namely, when we first hear the word "undiscovered knowledge" its meaning draws us first of all, so the first association of knowledge that has not yet been revealed and is still not in that total heritage of human civilization and therefore associated us with some new knowledge, and in that sense I remind you of the debate and what you have mentioned, therefore, that the promoter should consider possibly a more adequate name, so we have tried to translate it from an English language than I don't know the term "undiscovered knowledge", I don't know what else was "undisclosed knowledge", so we somehow came to the most appropriate Croatian expression of undiscovered knowledge, etc., so here in this sense I support what you have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63547	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63548	Thank you. My colleague Bedeković, to agree, we have quite often this problem since I have dealt with it myself, the issue of translation of certain legal institutes and regulations of the European Union into our legal system. In principle, you can always do two things, one is to go to a literal translation like it was in this case where the literal translation of the title of the directive is the name of this law but then the problem is that it does not actually correspond with some of the usual terms that we have. On the other hand, the problem is if you take the concept that already exists in your legal system, such as a business secret, it can have in the legal system of the European Union a different meaning than it does with you which can be quite dangerous. Let's say, here's if I can say something about it. The concept of residence, i.e. the concept of residence or residence in different European regulations, has a lot, there are subtle differences between different variations in different regulations and yet the concept of residence in Croatian law has one particular meaning. And if you don't use it, and if you just pass on that term and translate it so you can get confusion that you don't know if it's a Croatian residence institute or something that's from the European Union and what doesn't really have the same content. And there's actually a lot of this sensitive area because in practice there can be a problem, there may be a big fact of confusion, and it's not easy for the Proposer to make a final decision about it, or to propose a final solution, and we are neither on the Committee on Law and on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture at the end of the day, and we hope that you will then consult further stakeholders and perhaps with other state bodies and come up with some best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63549	Second debate, Mr. Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63550	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In view of the proposal for this law, you, on behalf of the club, were actually very detailed on the adoption of measures, procedures and remedies under civil law in order to protect these legitimate interests of the holder of business secrets and in fact can be talked about both knowledge and information as intellectual property. It is good that the adoption of this law actually contributes to strengthening the competitiveness of the economy and strengthening the national innovation system and the innovation potential of the economy. Why do I say that? I was encouraged by this and I know that I once talked about it here, but obviously this is not a fertile land, but today in the world, especially when we go to other countries, then we know from their representatives when they talk to us about their national identity, about cultural, natural wealth and goods, they are now more and more telling you about the one identity of their nation and people as an innovative and creative people, especially these smaller countries, such as Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, the Swedish people are very much expressing today that they are an innovative and creative people. Since we are not recognized in the world as an innovative and creative country but as individuals we are quite, in the tenth of our innovators, our scientists people are recognised worldwide. I'm not going to say their names so I don't leave anyone out or maybe hurt because I left him out, but we read about them every day, watch them on our television, actually, and they know more about them outside than we do ourselves. So, innovation and creativity as a cultural identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63551	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63552	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, yes. I agree, with us, the debate always comes down to the question of the system. However, apart from the very system that is being worked on and which is being promoted, there are some objective problems. Let's just say, if you want to develop a drug that I've really talked to a lot of people in medicine that you need in principle to develop until the start of production of about 100 million dollars. In a small country like Croatia with relatively small companies and a small market, such products are difficult to develop. It's much easier for large multinational companies to invest in development, so the entire RND by itself until the moment of commercialisation, especially because they can take the risk. Because when you start to develop something, you don't know if it's going to be a result or not, and it can only be done if you have enough of your own resources to go into this story, so it's not easy for Croatian companies. Here, if I can tell the Ministry of Science, together with the Ministry of Economy, is actually developing and currently working on the Law on State aid for research, development and innovation, which should now give a more favourable tax rate if such a proposal is a tax status for firms investing in research and development, we hope this will improve the situation. What I would point out, however, and which often poses a danger that the entire system is also too bureaucratic due to excessive regulation. So, we Croats are experts in creating new bodies, agencies, etc., we talked about it yesterday, and there should be the same to not actually create a whole pair of systems that would be the purpose of themselves and not to stimulate and facilitate the economy and not just the economics, but also scientific institutions to invest in research and innovation, so that this is certainly something to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63553	Thank you very much. From what I understand, the rapporteur won't take the final word because everyone agrees, there's no need. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow Thursday 7 December at 9.30 p.m. We will continue with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 17.25.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-06-0.u63554	Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Undiscovered Knowledge and Experiences and Business Information, First Reading, P.Z.E. Number 225, the motion for the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Undiscovered Knowledge and Experiences and Business Information, and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 119 votes in favour, four abstentions and one against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
